ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u620	And now we will interrupt the session because as announced, the arrival of the President of the Republic of Chile and his Excellency Mr. Ricardo Lagos Escobar is expected, so please remain in place because the scheduled start and arrival of Mr. President is expected every minute, here. Let's welcome President Chile and the President of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Mr. President of the Republic of Chile, Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, honored gentlemen of the Diplomatic Assembly in the Republic of Croatia, distinguished ladies and gentlemen representatives, respected and dear guests! [[Applause.]] I have the honour and special satisfaction that in the Croatian Parliament, one of the oldest parliaments in Europe, I can welcome the President of the Faraway but friendly Republic of Chile, His Excellency Mr Ricardo Lagos Escobar and members of the delegation. Dear Mr. President of the Republic of Chile! [[Applause.]] The address of one country's presidents to MPs of another country's parliament is a special occasion and a ceremony. It is always, in this case, expressing and proving the informed friendship of the two peoples and their countries, the relations between the Croatian and Chilean people and the relations of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Chile. History of ties between Croatia and Chile dates back to the second half of the 19th century when Croats begin to move to Antophagost and Quicka, Punta Arenas, Fireland and elsewhere, integrating themselves into Chilean society and training their children The Croats have made a major contribution to building their new homeland in the political, economic and cultural fields, and they are doing so today. We are proud that the numerous prominent and influential Croatian diaspora in Chile is an inevitable factor in all areas of modern Chilean life. The Croatian people are highly esteemed and will permanently remember the unreserved support and assistance of the Chilean people and the state provided to the Republic of Croatia in the most difficult and crucial days of our recent past. We representatives of the Croatian Assembly are grateful to remember unanimously adopted, identical resolutions by both the National Congress of Chile of July, 1991, in which Chilean senators and MPs have solidarityd with the Croatian people on their difficult journey to the full state sovereignty and international recognition of the Croatian state. It fills us with satisfaction that the Republic of Chile was the first state of the Latin American continent to recognise the Republic of Croatia in early 1992. In the past, a high level of interstate relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Chile has been established since the re-establishment of an independent and sovereign Croatian state. A quality basis for the widest frameworks and content for cooperation in political, economic, cultural and other fields has also been established. I would particularly like to highlight the very intensive cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Chilean National Congress, which began in late 1991 at the initiative of the Chilean-Croatian parliamentary group of friendships whose president and vice president Baldo Procurica and representative Zarko Luksic are among us today. I am deeply convinced that this cooperation will develop successfully in the future. The first state visit by the President of the Republic of Chile to Croatia by Mr Ricardo Lagos Escobar will strengthen the overall traditional friendly relations between our peoples and countries. We have again witnessed that the Republic of Croatia in the Republic of Chile has a reliable partner and an honest friend. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament, please welcome the President of the Republic of Chile, Mr. Racardo Lagos Escobar. I call upon the President of the Republic of Chile, his Excellency, Mr Ricardo Lagos Escobar, to address the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] Here you go, Mr. President. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u621	... /Applause./ [[speaking foreign language, no translation]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u622	I thank the President of the Republic of Chile. We are pleased to have experienced this day that a friendly president from the southernmost country of South America gave a speech at the Croatian Parliament. We really thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u623	... /Applause/ [[The speaker speaks foreign language, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u624	The Continuance of the Assembly session is at 3:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u856	Before I open a debate on this bill, I suggest we consume one item of the agenda, which is the selection of the Croatian Vice President, Article 5. The Rules of Procedure lays down that the proposal for the election of presidents can be submitted by the Clubs of Representatives of the HDZ, HSLS and DC, HSU, SDSS, and the Club of National Minorities, have submitted a proposal to elect Mrs Djurdja Adlesic as vice-president of the Croatian Parliament. Do any of the proposing representatives want to explain the proposal? Yeah. The president of the HDZ Representatives Club, Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Luka Bebic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u857	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, as the president told five club representatives the position to say so in the Croatian Assembly, so HDZ, HSLS, DC, SDSS, then the Minority Party Club proposes to elect Mrs. Djurdja Adlešić, Croatian representative, HSLS in the Croatian Parliament. According to the agreement reached by clubs under the chairmanship of the Parliament presidency, such a schedule is accepted by all clubs and these clubs propose to elect Mrs Djurdja Adlesic as vice president of the Croatian Parliament, so we ask that the representatives support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u858	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u859	Mr. Luka Baby... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u860	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. The election of Vice-Presidents requires most of the votes of the representatives present on the assumption that there is a quorum. The quorum exists. I am voting on the proposal of these clubs to elect Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Please, who's in favour of this proposal? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Abstained? I would like to say that Mrs Djurdja Adlesic, the vice-president of the Croatian Parliament, with 111 votes for and 3 abstentions, is the elected Mrs Djurdja Adlesic. I congratulate Mrs. Vice President Djurdji Adlesic and ask her to take her place. [[Applause.]] I ask the vice president of Mrs. Vesna Pusic's house to continue to chair.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u861	My colleagues and colleagues, I congratulate once again Mrs. Adlesic of the vice presidents of the House!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1186	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. I propose that the Parliament conduct a united discussion because it is the same topic, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Labour Act, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity leave for mothers who carry out the independent activity of both unemployed mothers and the Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act. If you agree, I suggest we conduct a united discussion. Thank you very much. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 5 Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity leave for mothers who carry out the independent activity and unemployed mothers, first reading, P.Z. No. 6 Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 7 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the motions by mail. First law reading. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, work, social policy and health care, family, youth and sport. I would like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity of Mrs Jadranka Kosor to explain the proposals of these laws. Here's the vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1187	Thank you very much. Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and parliamentary representatives. Here I am particularly pleased that I can address myself as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Resorship from this address book for the first time. I hope so, and I believe that we will work well together in these different roles. I am pleased to propose, therefore, on behalf of the Government and this is the essence of these three legislative proposals, which are in front of you in the first reading, so in the regular procedure, so what I can suggest is that we return the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave for mothers who have twins, third and next children. We are proposing this change, this amendment, believing that MPs will accept this proposal, we call primarily on constitutional provisions, to the provisions of the Croatian Constitution which clearly states that the state specifically protects the family, especially the mothers, children, young people. We also refer to an important document from 1996, which was brought to the Croatian Assembly by consensus. It is a programme of demographic reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia. In this document, this possibility of using a three-year maternity leave is foreseen as one of the possible measures that should stop a negative population trend. We think and believe that most MPs in this House agree with this, that the documents that are adopted in one mandate, such as programmes, regardless of who has most of them in the Croatian Parliament at the time, must be binding on all of the following calls, i.e. for all governments that come in particularly important documents that talk about Croatia's future. We in the Croatian government think this is our view, that this issue is a matter of stopping a negative demographic trend, a first-class political but also a first-class national issue. Because of course the data that the United Nations warns about, the data warned by Croatian demographers that for the first time in the last 220 years since the number of children born in Croatia was recorded, the figure has dropped below 40,000. These data are extremely alarming, alarming data and data that invites all of us to take some measures that can ultimately stop this negative population trend. The data says, so I repeat once again, the experts of the United Nations, but also our respected demographics, that if this trend continues, then every year we record fewer and fewer children born, and let's say last year the number of children born is less than 40,000, but the number of deaths is more than 50,000. So if this trend continues, in 30 years in Croatia there will be no labour force. In Croatia, there will be no one to work. If this trend continues, I have repeated these data many times in this assembly as a parliamentary representative on behalf of my club, so if this trend continues for 50 years in Croatia, about a million people will live less. About a million people less. The current demographic situation, according to demographic estimates, is already becoming a limiting factor in overall economic and social development. The share of young people in these projections, let's say by 2050, will be slightly higher than 10%. Just a little bit bigger than 10%. The share of the old will be 3 times the share of the young. We think that giving a family, giving under quotes, I would say, giving mothers is, in fact, the biggest investment in Croatia's future. I would like to say that this proposal to restore the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave for twin mothers, the third and every subsequent child was supported by the Economic Social Council, so all partners of the government and trade unions and employers. I can also be pleased to say that this measure was supported by the Association of Parents “Parents in Action”, short for RODE, that this measure was supported by associations such as the 8+ Association which brings together families with eight and more children in the Republic of Croatia. I repeat once again, this is a possibility that families can use. So, simply put, no one is going to force or force anyone to stay home for three years. No one forces anyone in the government to stay home and have a baby. It is only the possibility of a legal choice which every family can choose and, on the basis of this legal possibility as it already existed in Croatian legislation, round up its small, family, demographic policy. Also at the meeting of the Economic Social Council, I would like to point out with satisfaction that I, as Vice-President of the Government and Vice-President of the GSV, has proposed, and this proposal has been accepted, that one of the first meetings of the Economic Social Council is dedicated in this context to the position of today's women in the labour market in Croatia. The idea, which is particularly satisfying, is supported by employers, meaning that representatives of employers in the GSV and we should try to give answers to the questions that need to be answered in this thematic session, as well as in the Croatian legislation, to prevent the discriminatory relationship of employers often regretting women, when asked if they are pregnant, whether they have a family, whether they have children, whether they want children. Or more tragically, they get fired during pregnancy or maternity leave. On January 1, this year, when I visited my mother and children at Peter’s hospital, I was also warned by doctors and nurses. So, on cases, unfortunately, more and more often in their practice meet women who, up to the last second, keep their pregnancy secret in front of employers. This should be put to the end, this should be stopped and here, I think many answers, and especially if employers are to be instructed by a very clear message to the public in this sense that they will be given answers, if necessary, in the strengthening of the Labour legislation at the next session of the Economic Social Council. Because women today make up about 58% of the unemployed in Croatia. I would also like to report to you, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, that as Deputy Prime Minister and Resort Minister, I have agreed to set up a Council on Population Policy. This advice will be set up these days, the council will be joined by the representatives of demographics, but the representatives of all other interested public, these associations that I mentioned to the Economic Social Council, and I suggest that today we consider and pray to the representatives of the clubs who will talk about this subject, that they may be made known about the proposal that the Croatian Parliament also gives one of its representatives to this Council for Population Policy. This advice should be developed by two projects. One long-term, therefore, which should answer the question of what it is necessary to do to stop the negative demographic trend towards which Croatia is definitely becoming a demographic wasteland, according to which certainly the Croatian people are one of the oldest people in Europe. And the second project should be short-term measures that we would suggest and, of course, in order to stop it, I repeat again, more than a worrying trend in Croatia. This proposal on the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave for twin mothers, the third and each subsequent child should also enable less pressure on kindergartens that are chronically missing in Croatia because it is constantly on waiting lists of about 5 and a half thousand children. I always repeat the information for Zagreb, on the lists for kindergartens in Zagreb about a thousand and 500 children at any time. Of course, this measure of opportunity for a mother to stay at home for 3 years would certainly reduce the percentage of illness and child disease. So even in that context, I mean, I can almost accurately calculate savings in the state budget. This could also, according to our data, enable the employment of a certain number of persons for a certain period of time that would work in exchange because also, a frequent illness, I think it is a notorous fact. They often lead employers to problems in the organisation of work. I want to, here's the deal. I'm not gonna owe it to you in the end. I believe there's gonna be more opportunities in the debate after the club debate to say something to this proposal. I would like to say that this generation of politicians in Croatia today is responsible for the issue of stopping the negative population trend, we have to give answers to the question of what will happen in 10, 30 and 50 years, who will be driving these highways which this government is very supportive of, or supports their construction, who will return the loans that we are very much discussing and which is very often the subject of serious political debates. So we're the ones who need to give some answers today. This is one of the stones in that mosaic, no one in the government has the illusion that returning this legal opportunity can do wonders especially in a short time, but should work, should be taken, we also follow the example of Sweden, which in only 5 years the number of children born from 85 thousand increased to 125 thousand. This is the first of the measures the following measures will of course follow after the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity proposes a work plan for this year but also for a four-year period. And finally, I want to say that this is a return to this possibility, this legal solution and any guarantees from the Croatian Democratic Community in the elections, and I am sure that it was also one of the pillars of our good election result and victory in the elections. So I repeat once again with the support of GSV, with the support of interested associations, I believe that the government will receive support from representatives in the Croatian Parliament. This proposal, i.e. these three amendments and the addition of the law, is in the first reading in order to have time to discuss all aspects of the state budget and to adopt these legislative proposals in the final form when the state budget for 2004 is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1188	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1189	It's not exactly a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I'm using the occasion...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1190	If it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1191	Mr. President, on Tuesday morning, while the session was under way, there was no television transmission, and there is no television transmission now, while the Deputy Prime Minister presents the essential elements of this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1192	Thank you very much, there is one problem with satellite transmission, a technical, technological problem that starts at 10 o'clock so that we can't influence it until it's resolved on one level. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1193	Dear Mr. President, it is incorrect that Mrs. Kosor has supported this action from the Rod Association, on the contrary, a quote from the Roda website: "In the area of maternity benefits and birth leave rights we see places of many improvements and changes," Vedrana Miholic of the Rod Association pointed out on several occasions that the 3-year maternity leave is not considered an optimal or necessary solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1194	Madam Vice President, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1195	Madam MPs, it is a complete lie that the Rodas Association does not support this proposal, I have been with the representatives of the Roda Association and the Madam President you quote met the other day, after that meeting we held a press conference, reports from that press conference you could read in the daily papers, they unanimously and unanimously supported this legislative proposal by the Croatian Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1196	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1197	Dear President, I would like to correct Mrs. Kosor's incorrect statement on the interpretation of the UN's assessment of the state of the population in Croatia, this study, if we think of the same study, has a black and bright forecast. There is a black forecast that you spoke of but there is also a bright forecast that Croatia will be overcrowded at that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1198	Thank you very much. Here's the vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1199	Dear Mr. Representative, on the eve of this Council on Population Policy I have held a meeting with ours, I believe that you will agree with this, distinguished demographics academic Alice Verheimer-Baletić, vice president of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, Professors Gel and Akrap, and they have once again repeated this information to me in the Croatian Parliament. So I'm not taking them out as my data from my assessment, I'm taking them as an evaluation and professional data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1200	Thank you very much. Whether or not the rapporteurs of the Committee wish to submit oral reports. Yes, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health Chairman of the Committee Mr. Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1201	Dear Mr. President, esteemed ministers of the Croatian government, fellow MPs. The Committee on Labour and Social Policy and Health at the 1st session of the Committee held on 28 January 2004 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Labour Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 5 January 2004. The Committee discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act as a parent working body in accordance with the law, Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Following the opening explanation of the representatives, the Committee members unanimously decided to hold a joint discussion on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Labour Act, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity leave for mothers who carry out the independent activity of both unemployed mothers and the Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act. In a broad discussion, most Committee members assessed the necessary adoption of the proposed laws, with regard primarily to unfavourable demographic movements in the Republic of Croatia that require the necessary measures to promote birth and improve the protection of families and childcare. The proposed Law helps mothers who have given birth to twins, third and next children by benefiting from maternity leave until the third year of a child’s life entitled to monetary compensation. These measures highlight the improvement in the position of mothers who can stay for a longer period with a child with the right to compensation for that time. As noted, however, this is only one of the measures that should be taken to resolve this really long-term problem in the debate, so these measures are the initial changes that should follow everything else envisaged by the National Programme of Demographic Development of the Republic of Croatia, adopted by the Croatian National Assembly in 1996. Although the partial solutions of this Act are part of the overall strategy with the promotion of employment, the development of the economy and a series of social policy measures, from the sphere of social policy which will change the negative trend of demographic recovery. The debate also highlights the opinion that these partial solutions will not lead to a solution to the problem. It has also been warned that the proposal for future measures should take into account the improvement of the position of unemployed mothers as regards the duration of maternity leave as well as the proposal for certain measures to protect women employed as a specific time in their rights regarding the duration of maternity leave and return to work. After the discussion, members of the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, with 2 abstentions, the next conclusion. Firstly, the proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Act in the text is accepted as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, any comments, proposals and opinions expressed in the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1202	Thank you. He wants... Rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, Vice-President of Mrs Maria Byte. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1203	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament held its first session on 28 January 2004 a joint discussion on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity leave of mothers carrying out the independent activity and unemployed mothers and the Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act submitted by the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 5 January 2004. Following the President's proposal to conduct a joint discussion on these 3 legislative proposals, a statement of reasons came from the applicant's representatives. After the opening presentation, a debate was held expressing the opposite views of the representatives on the provisions of the proposed legal acts. Part of the Committee members opposed the introduction of the proposed measures. Representatives Davorko Vidovic, Biserka Perman and Sreko Ferenčak asked for an opinion, stressing that the proposed measures are partial and that their application does not improve the demographic image in the Republic of Croatia. In the debate, they pointed out that European countries' legislation does not know similar solutions, with the emphasis that birth permits in these countries last much shorter and that this law will further worsen the situation of young women. Further efforts need to be made to increase maternity benefits and to stimulate the partnership of fathers and mothers through legislation. It is pointed out that family and social policies are one whole and it is necessary to address this issue in a unique way with a clear concept while the degree of force of the proposed laws will disrupt consistency. The debate also expressed different opinions supporting the government's proposal by continuing the National Programme for Demographic Development of the Republic of Croatia, which restores the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave that was passed back in 1996 and applied in 1997. All three bill proposals resolve the right to use parental leave for twins, third and every subsequent child until the third year of child's life. Data were presented on the constant and worrying decline of the number of live births to a common accepted view that this negative trend must be stopped. It is stated that the proposed measures cannot and will not cause a demographic explosion but are only the first step in a series to follow in order to improve the demographic image in Croatia. The Committee presents a picture of the situation in some European countries, arguing that Croatia needs to find its own solutions to increase the birth rate, as all European Union countries record a negative population growth. Finally, the representatives of the Rod Association pointed out that young mothers and their families with impatience and approval await the adoption of these legal proposals. After the debate was held, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports decided to propose the adoption of the following conclusions by majority of votes 8 for, 3 against and 1 abstention. First, the draft Act amending and supplementing the Labour Act is adopted. Secondly, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity leave, mothers who carry out the independent activity and unemployed mothers, is hereby adopted. Third, the Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act is adopted. and the fourth, all objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate on all three legislative proposals will be submitted to the applicant in order to take them into account when the final draft law is drawn up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1204	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. And before that, I'm sorry, chairman of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, President Furio Radin. The board had a session, but the report hasn't been typed yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1205	Thank you very much. The board finished their session a few minutes ago, you will receive during the debate our report. But we would like to say a few words about the course of the debate and what has been decided. So, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities discussed the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Labour Act, and of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity leave for mothers, who carry out independent activities and unemployed mothers, means two out of three laws, it clearly assesses that they are in direct contact with human rights and are then in the process of being the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities. The debate stressed the need to introduce these measures, but also the fact that they will not be enough to correct the demographic structure of the population of Croatia, either but also that they will not be enough from another slightly more complex point of view, means from the point of view of defence of individual freedom especially women, that they have the same possibility of a professional career as men. It has been discussed, discussed and that such measures may be more related to patriarchal societies if only such measures remain, rather than to societies, so we believe that they must be societies and families of the future. and in this light, it is suggested that wherever mothers are mentioned, and that is almost everywhere, including the very name of one of the laws, that term be converted into parents, because on parental or maternity leave, whatever we call it, they have the same rights of men and women, so these rights are even and there is no reason not to be stated in that way and in the law. So that the termology of the law itself is less ideological and more neutral and more focused on the problem, not on the ideology of what the definition of family should be. Finally, the Committee supported both laws in first reading with two abstentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1206	I thank Mr. President of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1207	We're starting a club debate. The first is Mr. Representative Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1208	Dear Madam Vice-President, the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Government, the esteemed Members of Parliament! I have these three legislative proposals in front of me, so the Labour Act, the Health Insurance Act, and the Mother's maternity leave Act, which carry out the independence of the activity, which we can come up with under the common denominator of a three-year maternity leave for mothers with three and more children, and we're going in kind of a row. First, when we adopted in 1996 in this House the measures of the most innovative policy, as Croatian Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Kosor's Parliament said, was unique. It was voted by all and then by the opposition parties and then by the ruling HDZ. One of the measures was then this three-year leave. I personally believe that there was no reason if I was not wrong in 2001 for the reduction of maternity benefits for women employed from 2,000 and 500 per thousand and 600 kuna for those other six months, and even less so for the abolition of the benefit for families who opted for third, fourth and next children. I believe so much that these legal proposals, too, should support these three proposals. First, why? This measure defacto almost cost nothing. In the light of the Labour Act as well as in this Health Insurance Act, it is said that law enforcement would cost 10 million kuna. So in 2004, 10 million kunas will need to be provided more in the Republic of Croatia's budget than was provided for that purpose in 2003. Secondly, the Law on the Independent Activity of Unemployed Mothers mentions a figure of 50 million kuna, which should be provided in 2004 more than in 2003, but I think it's even a little excessive here. So, I'm holding, I didn't need the 3rd January administration at all, first I'm going to say to abolish these existing rights, and alone in front of the IDS Club in 2001, I criticized that phenomenon and said to the other side that we would say we're giving... "and a bottle" that can be brought down to social sensitivity, clearly under the quotes of the then former government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, when we talk about this "social sensitivity" we should say the following. It is true that maternity benefits for working mothers fell from 2,000 to 1,000 and 600 kuna and for those other six months. It is to be acknowledged but also until January 3rd, maternity benefits were not received by unemployed women, craftsmen's wives, I don't know students but exclusively employed women. In one word, the user circle doubled after January 3rd, and it was indeed politically unnecessary to abolish the so-called “. ” a three-year leave that would cost 10 million kuna. The same thing happened to the 3rd January administration and to the children's allowance. The HDZ points out that compensations were a minimum reduction to defenders unnecessarily and abolished by students, and that is true and the third January authority was not able to point at what, for example. In 2003, the child's allowance receives 60 thousand families more than 99 years. In 1999, 378 thousand 303 children received the child's allowance, and 2003. 499 thousand 752 children, or 111 thousand 449 more than 99. The average salary in 99 is 204 and 2003. 253 kuna. So the amount of unaccounted for by the former administration to explain what she'd done was simply incomprehensible. So let's give the gentlemen a three-year leave, but we're also looking for a return and an increase if possible maternity benefits. I'm sure it'll go a little harder. Because a three-year leave costs, I said 10 million kuna plus those 50 million kunas, and for maternity benefits it will take to secure another two hundred million kn in 2004, for which the circus in 2003 was larger than 99. Now that's money, we'll find them clearly easier or harder to find. But whether there will be more children in Croatia in 2004, 2005 than they did last year, I guess that's the central issue. Oh, God, there's gonna be them. But the one who thinks it's only going to happen on a three-year leave or higher maternity leave, which we absolutely stand for, I believe is wrong. He's not a sucker, but I don't think he's right. Statistics say, we have had opportunities to read about this recently, that in 98, 12 thousand 500 children were born in Croatia. And in 2002, only 7 grand. Someone's gonna say it's an inconclusive argument, but given it dominantly was the result of this time spent by some mothers' fathers on maternity leave. No, although I once again said that the IDSa club would vote for a three-year leave. BUT did someone now consider that leave should be paid? Because it's not that simple to support one, two children, and three children, plus I don't know, a wife or a husband on maternity leave, it's far more difficult. But where's the point? According to us at the IDS club why it gets to those floors in third-born children. In that today over 90% of new employees work exclusively on certain working hours, and 90 of those years that was below 20 below 30%. And according to us at the I.D.S. club, that's exactly the point. What a young woman cannot establish in the Republic of Croatia a working relationship on the basis of an alleged working time, indefinite working hours or better said that at this time in the Republic of Croatia work on indefinite working hours has become exceptional. And I'm afraid it'll be in the future. The system that surrounds us I call it has passed the first second phase of privatisation, no more social ownership, no more stable working relationship, little so-called, servicely I don't know the processing sector either doesn't employ almost anyone on an indefinite basis except family members. And we, until we solve this problem, will be in serious trouble, because whoever guarantees out means state services or out of state or city public enterprises will be given a young woman from maternity leave back to the same job she was doing before she went on maternity leave. It's by us at the club IDs with the biggest problem. I also agree that those who say that there is a far greater problem in Croatia at this time how to get to another child than to a third child. I agree with these thesis presented by the Vice-President of the Government of Ms. Kosor, that Croatia is getting old, I find it a little nutritious when in some reports it is said that Croatia is extinct. I also agree that every government doesn't need to write these policies over and over again as if the world is starting over from them. I'm not thinking about this one right now. I was thinking about my ex. Only three counties and the city of Zagreb, according to the 2001 census, had more inhabitants than 91. Istria from 204 to 206 but this is the exclusive result of population immigration. Ship's Posavina County also for 2,000 inhabitants. But this is still the result of demographic growth, and the city of Zagreb, or that ring of Zagreb, which can also thank the arrival of residents by the side. From 91 to 2001, the number of inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia was reduced by 298 thousand 835. In particular, there was an expression in war-related areas due to the abandonment of that space from the Serb population. And one of the priorities clearly of the Republic of Croatia must be their return. The reduction of the population in Croatia would be more than 298,000 835 if there were no 232 thousand 962 persons living in Croatia mainly from Bosnia and Herzegovina. So one mistake of politics led to Bosnia from all sides of the country has been ruined and 189,000 and 39 people have moved from Bosnia to Croatia. Where they went, mostly clearly towards Zagreb. And let's call it the Dalmatian, Istrian, industrial coastal centers. So from 91 to 2002, 456 thousand 454 people have moved out of Croatia from some 250 to 270 citizens of the Republic of Croatia's Serbian nationality, and about 180 to 200 thousand mostly young people, and this is a clear disaster. So the war didn't ruin one, two, three, I don't know, five generations. Three countries have been destroyed, and then we wonder why Croatia has reduced the number of children in 2003, 4 compared to 15 years ago, etc., that is why we have more dead than live births in Croatia. In 91 to 2002, even 71 thousand 980 were more dead than born alive. And what to say is only for II. World War II, that wartime. I'll just mention Istria from 43rd to 45th was killed by what was in the concentration camps, which on the battlefields on the side of the anti-fascists about 17,000 Istrians. From 47th to 54th out of 180 thousand optanators, according to data from the MUP and demographics, Gerjavic only left Istria, a path of some 140 thousand people went away from the third countries. And when I mentioned BiH's opinions, I did the same that as the international community did great things, it stopped the war in those areas, and so did their wrong policy on some cases also contributes to the emigration of not only the Croatian population from the country's territory. This demographic problem - I'm talking about Croatia - must be a serious problem. We're not just going to solve it on a three-year leave. But what do we do? We have a '96 program. It wasn't just a majority or minority council programme that was unanimously adopted, but it was practically a professional public programme. This may not be about the return of the Serb population, but the programme does exist. There's a lot of trouble in the country. We talked about one problem yesterday, it's VAT, and I think it should cover all children's items - from food to goods, from shoes to these children's trips, I don't know how to take summers, etc. But that could be one problem for the state budget. But regardless of all this would be a huge gain for young Croatian families if they decided to zero in these items. But if Croatia wants to be launched, and for that I think there can be a solution, rather than constantly listening to arguments between the government, the opposition, etc. For the end. More and more to say, the population movement will also be in the future in the Republic of Croatia. Mostly the east of the country is empty, people are leaving the west of the Republic of Croatia. The growing spaces of the Republic of Croatia will remain empty. Only two counties have per capital, meaning gross social product per capital above the republican average. It is Istria and the City of Zagreb. While in Zagreb and Istria, well for Zagreb I don't know, but for Istria I know unemployment in the 12th month was below 5% in the east of the country is over 25% somewhere and 30. And it is time for us in IDS to decentralise Croatia with a strong solidarity fund because the one who thinks that these areas will be managed more easily from Zagreb than from their centres think he is naive. And also, no one, as the Deputy Prime Minister said, can nor impose on anyone how many children they will have. But Croatia needs or government, I don't know who does everything to make children desirable. The IDS will support everything that goes in that direction, even when it comes to such declarative measures. We can't compare ourselves to the period when our mothers brought us into the world when they had a maternity leave of 105 days - three and a half months. We are not clear either Sweden, nor Norway that our companies may have kindergartens, mangers in their circle of no company or that I do not know, husbands or mothers could use the child's maternity leave until the 7th year of life. But I agree you should...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1209	Time, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1210	Do everything because it has become one of the dominant not only political but existential issues of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1211	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Madam Representative. Excuse me. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1212	I'm correcting Mr. Cain's claim that the former government has been doing something from the beginning when it comes to the population policy programme and demographic renewal. It's not about anything from the beginning, but for the first time, it's about the population goals that we set for the national family policy. A part of the people remembers that last January 16th in this Parliament for the first time, we adopted a document of this kind, which, among other things, ensures in most other countries the realisation of population goals. So there were no revolutions when it came to the 96th demographic renewal document. Such a document has neither been initiated nor since the beginning of the term of office of the last government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1213	Thank you. Now it's Madam Representative Ljubica Lalić's turn on behalf of the HSS club. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1214	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Official data show that the number of children born in Croatia has been falling for years, so only 35,000 390 children were born in 2003, which is the least number of newborns in recent years. This is not visible from the explanation of the package of amendments and the addition of laws that are ahead of us although the applicant was obliged to put a little more effort and just a comparative display of the number of births from at least 90 years old, so to this day to point out to the people's representatives the urgency and urgency of finding a solution that would lead to the promise of the number of newborn children. The fall of birth in Croatia is not a new problem, nor has the problem created by the previous government. Long-term negative demographic processes, such as the decline of birth, have created deep scars in the demographic structure of the population. How the high degree of demographic age will have great importance for the future development of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, Croatia needs an effective population policy, which, if it does not stop, will at least slow down the negative demographic processes. In this policy certainly a significant place, and the most important must be to increase the birth rate. This goal has also been sought by previous governments, the objective has not been achieved because the problem has been approached by partial solutions without systematic measures of the most innovative policy. The period of maternity leave has been extended, maternity leave has been increased, and since 2001 the right to maternity leave and compensation has been extended for the first time by unemployed mothers, mothers for regular schooling, unemployed mothers for disabled pensions due to professional inability to work, increased children's allowance and extended the circle of children's allowance rights users and, despite everything, the number of newborn children has been constantly dropping. The number of newborns did not increase even after further promises to allow mothers with more than 5 children to retire. Based on previous experiences, it is freely concluded that even this attempt to amend the three laws of the Labour Act, the Law on Health Insurance and the Law on maternity leave of mothers who carry out their own activities and unemployed mothers will not lead to that objective, which is to increase newborn children. And this is just one partial solution that is not followed by measures of systematic, intelligent policy. In addition to the lack of systematic measures, it is offered as an incentive measure to mothers who produce twins, third and next children's rights to maternity leave with the right to cash compensation until the 3rd year of child's life. According to the associations that defend the interests of mothers and parents, this is such an incentive measure that it was not even sought by those associations, so the secretary of the Roda Association says: "We never asked for a three-year maternity leave back" and it has been published in all means of public communication. I don't know what lessons we can learn every few days. Perhaps this measure would be encouraging at some other time when the Birth Law guaranteed that after the leave ended it would return not to the right place but to its place of work from which she went on maternity leave, now it is no longer so. Now there is no guarantee not only that the birth will be welcomed properly but any job with the same employer. Today, it is very easy not only to remove jobs, but the entire company disappears, so in three years, they are no longer in memory. Permanent security is one of the more important reasons why citizens find it harder to decide on parenting. Of course, with several legal provisions, such a significant reason cannot be removed. This reason will remove the creation of such conditions of economic business and life in which the establishment of a working relationship with a solid and stable employer is not considered to be the main lottery of the event, but will be normal and accessible to all working citizens, especially those who have decided on motherhood and not just one child. DO WE KNOW that today the younger woman’s labour market is undesirable, the employer is happy to hire a young man but not a woman because he is afraid of her maternity leave, and therefore the weirder consent and acceptance of employers that we can qualify for, because one is in words, and the other is in action. A policy that does not want to hire a young woman, a policy that prevents young women from hiring and especially pregnant women, seems to me hypocritical if it says it is acceptable and welcome to the authorities. I ask the government how it feels to protect young women from discrimination in action. Furthermore, whether a man who has succeeded after years of searching for the main lottery event called employment will decide on paternity when he is admitted for a certain time and his fate is unknown after one or more months, and about years not to speak. The responsible fatherhood and motherhood requires a vision of the future of the family and thus the child and after the expiry of maternity leave lasts for a year, two or three years. The maternity leave and compensation, however long and high, have a time limit after which the average remains the only question of where with the child, how to dress and feed him, how to enable him to learn and standards that would not separate him from other children in terms of subordination and creating a less valuable complex because the materialised and consumer society and children impose topics which it should never be burdened with. Unfortunately, the brand of tennis shoes, pants and other clothing items, and cell phones, today classifies children and then should be free especially from classification by these criteria. IS there enough room in children's kindergartens in Croatia today, where after the maternity leave expires and lasts for three years, there are not enough places but also most families do not have the means to pay an aunt who would guard the child while the mother works. Obviously, in the present circumstances, it would be fate to stay in the house with a key around your neck and occasional phone contact with your parents. It is unlikely that under these conditions parents would decide on more children, no matter how long maternity leave takes. Because of the difficulty of keeping the job, a small number of mothers would benefit from the law. So, surely, an increase in maternity leave is not a crucial incentive for a new birth. It is as a possibility of welcome and it is a possibility and should remain in the system of measures. And now in this law-altering package, a little paradox. Employees are given the right which most will not benefit, and for unemployed mothers, mothers in regular education and unemployed mothers, disabled pensioners due to professional unemployment for work, maternity leave for the first and second children remains only 6 months. It is true that up to two years ago these categories of mothers had no right to leave or to receive compensation. This House made it possible for them and it wasn't easy to defend the proposal, but we didn't mean it then, and we don't think it's enough now. I believe and represent the view that all mothers are equally valuable, and those who work in ministries and governments and those who work in factories just as well as those who work with their husbands on their family economies, and formally do not have the status of employees and those who are truly unemployed. If they are equally valuable and they are, then the duration of maternity leave for the first and second children should be the same for everyone. We expect the promoter to correct this injustice, and I think that this measure would give a much greater incentive than giving rights that will most often not be used. And in the end, I want to recap. This is about partial solutions that won't lead to a goal. An increase in the number of newborns. Decisions must be sought in a systematic intelligence policy in which both economic and tax policy, including social policy, includes the amount of compensation, children's allowances, etc. The prerequisite for the growth of birth is the economic development of Croatia, and then everything becomes decisive and the issue of birth growth. As we believe that partial solutions will not lead to the goal, and for us in the Croatian peasant party, the goal is to increase the birth rate, the HSS Club has proposed a conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with proposing to the Assembly a strategy for a policy of opportunity, as well as an overall package of laws, which will contain all measures to implement the adopted policy. We know that there is a strategy that was adopted since 1996. We know that we adopted a specific strategy last year, and we know that some of the established measures were implemented by the previous government. If the current government remains with the adopted strategy, of course there is no need for re-debate and adoption, and the government's job is easier because it is left with only a set of laws that will implement all 30 and some of the measures that this House has found will lead to demographic renewal. Whether the policy is correct and effective, it is only possible to assess when all measures are implemented. As long as we approach self-partial solutions, the goal is not achieved, and the commitment to demographic restoration remains only in the sphere of declarationability. Depending on the applicant's indication of the proposed conclusion, the Croatian Peasant Party's club will also vote on the proposals put forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1215	Thank you, Madam Representative. Mrs. Carmela Caparin reported to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1216	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Madam Vice President. A series of lies have been cited, however, I will briefly say that Mrs Lalic has said that the number of children's allowances has been increased since 3 January. We remember that children's allowances were abolished by children over the age of 18 and that 25 thousand children were lost without a child's allowance. In addition, the policy which, Mrs Lalic's statement that the Croatian Democratic Community's policy is a hypocritical statement and a statement that it is a policy that prevents women from hiring is also terrible, because ultimately voters have decided whose policy is hypocritical...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1217	You mean, untrue not scary. You mean untrue.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1218	That's right, untrue, that's right. And the employment programme is not the topic of today's session, it is in the Croatian Democratic Community programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1219	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1220	Well, Madam Vice President, I think the distinguished colleague Carmela hurt the Rules of Procedure when she imputed something I didn't say. I didn't say politics... I didn't say HDZ policy was hypocritical. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I was talking about employers, employers won't take young women out of fear of maternity leave. And their policy, that non-employment and refusal policy, I called it hypocritical because on the other hand, they declaredly accept the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1221	Thank you. So you don't think it's correct. On behalf of the promoter, Madam Minister Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1222	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. After the presentation of Ms. Lalic on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party club, I would like to say a few words. Namely, you say you expect the motionary, therefore, from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to correct the injustices. Yeah, that's what we do. This is one of the first steps in correcting injustice. I, Madam Representative, also want to remind you, because I am a little surprised by your advance, but I apologize for that surprise, because the president of the Croatian Peasant Party, Mr. Zlatko Tomcic, last year, said that you remember it well, "One of the biggest mistakes of the coalition government was the abolition of the rights of mothers and families and that mistake will be corrected in the next government." That mistake in line with Mr. Tomcic's announcements to this government, this government is now correcting. So I remind you that precisely your party, the first man of your party, pointed out that this was one of the greatest injustices committed by the coalition government. So, speaking, you questioned more or less what I was talking about in the name of the promoter, and so the facts. Among other things, the fact that the Economic Council has been supported by employers to this project and you say that it is a strange consent of employers. I think there's really something to go on. We agreed that, I said that in the opening statement, one of the first meetings of the Economic Social Council, we would dedicate it to this particular problem in light of the fact that women today are discriminated on the labour market, that they make 58% unemployed and that even employers, and there we received unanimous support from employers, must send a clear message to their members, to the public, and I said very clearly that we would initiate some amendments to the law. So we will propose to tighten the legal measures for all those employers who violate the laws and discriminate against women on the labour market, thus firing them or asking inappropriate questions. You, too, have pointed out that working mothers are now given through this package of possibilities that most mothers in employment will not use. That's not true, ma'am, because as long as that possibility existed and when it was better said abolished, then if you remember about 11,000 employees of mothers just got a 60-day deadline to get back to work, that it had to solve the issue of babysitting, that it had to solve the issue of infrastructure and so on. You said the fall of Natalie was not created by the former government. I agree with that. But the fact is that the number of third-born children since 1998 when it was more than 12000 to 2002 fell to a little over 7,000. It's data and facts. Likewise, when this measure was introduced in the 1996 demographic policy programme, the fact that, in 1996, third-born children were born 11661, 1997. 12732, for example, was born 9728 in 1995, 1999. 10791 and then we get to 2002 when the third-born children were either said something more than 7,000. Therefore, I thank you for the debate, and I would like to say that indeed the promoter understood well and your message so to correct injustice, and until the second reading, so we have also made a proposal in the regular procedure, not in the ER to consider all aspects and to include, until the final proposal, the trust and useful suggestions that we will receive during this debate today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1223	Thank you. We have a series of corrections to an incorrect quote. The first one was the correction of the incorrect allegations by Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1224	I'd like to correct the incorrect allegations, allegedly. I think it is completely incorrect, and it is incorrect that the government, or Zlatko Tomcic, has said that the government has abolished the rights of mothers and children. This is an incorrect fact, it is a manipulation of the truth because the previous government did not abolish the rights of mothers and children but rather made redistribution, extended the rights and significantly increased budgetary allocations for a wide range of different rights belonging to parents, children and families and aimed at affecting all other measures and improving demographic trends.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1225	Nice. There are 3 more reactions to your quote, and then perhaps, to correct the incorrect allegations, Mrs. Milanka Opačić appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1226	I'll try to correct two incorrect allegations. The first is that the HDZ government will tighten labour market measures to protect women. There is nothing more to be tightened, we in the Labour Act have tightened these measures and imposed a penalty for employers 60 to 100,000 kunas if they do not hire a woman because she is pregnant or for some other reason, so she fires a woman just because she is a woman. And secondly, what you said was that after 1996, your demographic restoration programme increased the number of newborn children. Mrs. Kosor, you haven't implemented any of the 15 measures in the demographic program.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1227	Thank you. I'm sorry, Madam Representative Maria Byte, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1228	Madam Vice President, pursuant to Article 209. I am correcting the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament that the Rules of Procedure were injured because the colleagues did not correct the incorrect allegations but expressed their opinion in relation to the opinion of Ms. Deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1229	I have article 209 in front of me, ma'am. I checked him directly, and my opinion is that they've corrected the incorrect assumption. Mr. Representative Mršić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1230	I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations. First, it's 2002. 11,000 mothers lost their right to a three-year leave. This is not true because, according to the 2001 data, there were just over 8,000 children born. So there couldn't have been 11 thousand mothers and two, it would have been good if my colleague Kosor had given us complete data on the number of children born from the moment, establishing that right until the moment she didn't, because it's 98. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1231	I'm asking you not to take the session out of the bench. If Mr. Representative corrects an incorrect quote, corrects it. If he hasn't corrected it, I'll warn him. But I'm asking you not to take the session out of the bench. Here you go, Mr. Representative. I'm only asking for a little patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1232	It is therefore incorrect that the three-year leave was abolished because the number of such children fell from 98 to 2001 when the law was amended. Obviously, there are other measures, but I ask the vice president if she has that information from 95 to 2002 that we will be able to use it as an argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1233	Mr. Representative, you can ask the Vice-Presidents of the Government and the Registrar's Minister specifically, but not within the framework of the Institute of Correction of the Inaccuracy. Of course, what's within that institute is what you used as a correction. Next to correct the incorrect allegations by Ms. Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1234	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, Madam Minister said the HSS was actually giving up those days' promises. No, ma'am, we've promised to stand up for the correction of mistakes. And this is one of the mistakes, but one of the measures. In my debate, I have pointed out that this measure is least effective and will most difficult lead to a goal that is common to both you and us, which is an increase in birth. And with regard to numbers and comparatives, it would have been good if we had received a numbered table picture of what has been happening since the 1990s and by number...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1235	Madam MPs, you've corrected the alleged position of the HSS. Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Madam Minister Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1236	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to appeal here as a representative of the Government, but also as a representative so far in two mandates, to really direct this debate to what the Croatian Government is proposing, without wasting time and strength on correcting allegations and abuse. I apologize, but here's what I'm saying for the first and last time from this position, because I don't think we're going anywhere. Because I think that...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1237	Excuse me, Madam Minister. I'm asking you to take the session from the Parliament, not the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1238	I agree with you, but I would also like to ask you, as chairman, to sometimes protect the proposing representative. Because the allegations I did not say were corrected here, i.e. the opinions were corrected, i.e. the views of this Croatian government. Let's just say Mr. Tomcic didn't say what he said. Mr. Tomcic is a representative at the Croatian Parliament and can make it very clear what he was talking about and what he was talking about. What Mrs. Opacic was talking about is that the government can't sharpen the measures. That's what you'll see. That's what you'll see in your agreement with the employers, I said on GSV, can the government tighten measures in labour legislation. We think he can. About the finding that 11000 mothers did not lose the right to a three-year leave. Our data suggests that and these were the data that we had available at that time and that we opposed the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave because we received such data and because then about 11 thousand mothers according to the data had to return to work within 60 days. I believe that's at least that argument you accept. And what you're also saying is that the data I'm presenting is not accurate. The data I'm presenting is accurate about the number of third-born children. I can give you this copy of that data, so I'll be happy to deliver it to you so you can discuss it. And yet, as far as the findings are concerned, these are all corrections, opinions and views of the government, not corrections to my incorrect allegations, that this measure is the least effective. Well, from something this government thinks we should go. It would be most devastating to tap into the place and do nothing. Doing nothing would be the easiest thing, as far as the budget's cheapest thing under quotes, but I think we need to do something. This is one of the first proposals and I thank you for the debate so far, I believe that by the end and by the final proposals these three laws will indeed reach agreement and that all MPs in the Croatian Parliament will support these three legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1239	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1240	Mr. Chairman, I would like to correct the incorrect assumption that the interventions of the representatives by correcting the incorrect allegations of abuse. On the contrary, abuse is the use of inappropriate, unmistakable and excessive use of the proposing institute to appear for the word, because in some ways they match and make it impossible for MPs to say what they think, to intervene where they think their inalienable and commercial right is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1241	According to Articles 145 and 147. The Rules of Procedure of the Representative of the Government and the Proposer may be discussed with their proposals, opinions at any time. It's the Rules of Procedure. This is the Rules of Procedure, so it can then be pronounced on... thus not at all diminishing the rights of the representatives to present their views, opinions, proposals, objections and corrections to incorrect allegations. Honourable representative Zvonimir Mršić corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1242	Well, first of all, I'd apologize to the vice president if she understood that I said that she was providing incorrect information. I just asked her to bring out all the data, not the data from 97 and 2001. Give us the data from 95 to 2002, so everything. We'll get out of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1243	Dear Mršić, be as kind as you were before that your colleague Pusic led you to not ask the question under the form of an correction of a non-toric quote. It's for the current morning. On behalf of the HSLS Club and the DC vice-president of the home respected representative Đurđa Adlešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1244	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Prime Minister, allow me to thank all the MPs and MPs who gave me the vote for the duty I hope and I will try to comply with the Rules of Procedure and with the obligations that he makes. The HSLS and DC Club will support the package of laws, as we hold the necessary more active policy of the intelligence and family, and we are particularly pleased with the other part of the announced measures announced by the Vice-President, and I will also present some information that is indeed warning and saying that these measures need to be taken. Namely, data on 31. The 12th year last year was that the Employment Office was 378 and 544 unemployed. That 201 thousand 652 were women. That at a certain time 51% were women. That although there is guaranteed pay equality, the pensions that women receive are 22% lower than men's pensions. Most of the companies that men work in are rehabilitated. It's very rare for women who work mostly women like the textile industry. We have a ban on gender discrimination in employment and in the process of work. However, free phones introduced by some NGOs deny the implementation of these measures. So we have high standards, but we don't apply them. If the goal, and the Deputy Prime Minister and Government claim that the aim of these measures is to stop the negative demographic trend, then we believe that it is a really good start right behind the VAT to put these points on the agenda. It also says something about the seriousness of the realization of the program, but I made promises. The Republic of Croatia has this truth with the maternity leave of one of the longest, if we compare ourselves with the countries of the European Union where a December 3 months. That we are among 14% of European countries with the longest maternity leave. However, these Euro Union countries apply some other measures that show concern for the demographic image of countries. They were implementing some other instruments of family policy. Some countries particularly care for single - parent families, some taking on numerous tax reliefs. We at the HSLS and DC Club will support how the vice president said this first measure as the first rock of the government. We are particularly pleased by these announced other measures, which are supported by the Economic and Social Council. Especially those talking about the initiative to hold a debate on the position of a woman in the labour market. We assume that the aim of such a debate is to find measures to protect women, indeed, in the work process itself. and avoid discrimination in employment that we all know exists. However, we must not close our eyes that these are still the age of pluralization of family forms, that we must show greater care for single-parent families, which are greater candidates for poverty than parents. There is evidence that 60% of the alimony was not charged, that 80% were charged by court. This also speaks of the functioning of the rule of law, of course. But I have here several times, and in the last term, I have proposed the establishment of a special state fund for single mothers from which these alimonys would be paid. I propose that the following measures, which have been announced, also consider the proposal. Measures are necessary that will certainly produce good results. And I really don't see any reason why this first measure is being rejected, and these others are being announced, and that is, above all, a concern about the employment of both parents as two foster parents. Then the development of service activities for the family, which would support a two-nutrient model. I think it's quite clear that it's kindergartens, kindergartens, that it's an extended stay, that it's a place in a nursery. and that it is quite clear that these are measures that cannot be implemented in six months, in a year. If, after four years of office, the first results, first, are seen, then we've done a good job. We, therefore, support the government's measures as the first pebble, as the vice president said, we are confident that we will work together on the remaining measures. And what I want to especially commend is the support the government gave to the shelter for the victims of domestic violence. The victim of domestic violence in Zagreb has several times been in their home with a secret address before closing, without serious institutional assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1245	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to apply for a ten-minute hearing at 11:17 p.m. Furthermore, the chairman of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, Mr Davorko Vidovic, scheduled a meeting of the Committee today at 13.30 p.m. on the ground floor with agenda, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Family Law. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1246	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Allow me in a few words to try to make arguments and reasons why the SDP Club cannot support the proposal for these measures. In fact, listening to Mrs. Vice President and her opening statement, I expected that we would get at least one argument more than what was given to us in the proposal, or in the explanation of these three laws which would testify that this is indeed the case, as it has been said several times here about the stone mosaic. It may be a rock, but we don't see a mosaic. The approach on which this measure is based is multiplely unacceptable. It is primarily unacceptable because it is partial and what matters are about family, population, demographic policy that suffer here without real understanding what is really not being dealt with in a partial way. This approach is also neither scientific nor professionally justified. We didn't get a single argument for that. He is unfortunately ideological and he dared to say by the consequences but also by the way he presented himself to the Croatian public with a well-contaminated demagogy. It is difficult to accept the legal and social and economic effects of such a measure. I know it's hard to understand. 86% of citizens said in a survey these days in the paper that they accept this measure. Indeed, it creates the impression that something is given to someone in this country, the more it is said to be given something that is wrongfully taken away. But let me still say something about the partiality, the intricacies and the ignorance of such an approach. Family policy and all its measures, all the objectives set and all the holders of these policies are inseparablely linked to the country's social policy as a whole. What does the government offer as its concept of social policy? We couldn't find out. I expected in the prime minister's address to this home that we would see at least traces or indications of that new social policy or old, or whatever you want. We didn't get it. This was neither seen nor seen in the pre-election promises of the ruling party nor in the opposition party, nor presented in any programme document of the party. It is only personal to me that we do not have any social or family policy concept so far and that that model of social and family policy that we have finally and successfully defined in the mandate of the last Government, with the full and crucial participation of all available experts in this country, is well-determined and violated by such partial proposals. I am afraid that we are going back to the state of our kind of provision of an extensive social rights award, and by various criteria, mostly ideological and political opportunity, not based on the real social needs of the citizens of this country, and I would say sometimes beyond the fundamental values of social justice and the equality of citizens. Such a policy, unfortunately, had the opportunity to watch for 10 years. If we can both forgive the time and period of the creation of the Croatian state of transition, war, any important and important business when, by automation or simply in new circumstances, they have been introduced or continued by initiative to grant rights founded in another socialist concept, if it could happen that the rights have been extensively assigned as when it occurred to whom we had a real pain. For almost a year, the entire teams of experts have been trying to find out what social rights people in this country have, how these rights are accumulated and how these rights are realised, and in fact, there was a rather monstrous picture of those rights in which, for example, people with disabilities based on such non-constitutional extension rights had differences in the rights of persons with disabilities, so in those disability incomes that reached the ratios of 1 to 17. I want to say very clearly that it is extremely dangerous in the assignment, in the seduction, in adding or reducing social rights to go through a partial approach. This approach is always devastating and it is always long-term harmful. That's why it's a pledoa for one whole, serious and systematic social policy from which we can then derivate some kind of right as proposed in this case. These measures or this measure are based on an unequivocal and unprofessional approach, as neither respects what has occurred in theory nor careful analyses of the real effects of extended distance from other countries is made clear that in one ideological discourse that we recognize here as female preferences is exclusively a mother, nurse and eye breeder, ensuring the stability of family and society in times of crisis. They don't think women should be forced to commit to work or house, they don't want to deal with women's problems in the labour market, because they cheer under quotes, for a woman's mother. But at the same time, women with adults refer to public actions and so on. The most important reason to apologize is because of the length, the most important reason is certainly what in this way women are moving away from the world of work, and it is quite certain that the young woman will be in a much more unfavourable situation, I apologize, I think that when she is united that she is then 20 minutes. I apologize for misjudged the weather. So we do not want to participate in something that certainly does not result in the solution to the problem we are talking about. And it certainly can lead to a worsening position of women in society and a difficult approach to the world of work that only guarantees the rise of natalitte. Because a two-nailing woman and a mother, it may show Sweden's experience to be much more successful in development than what this case is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1247	I thank my colleague Vidovic for his right as a representative to the Rules of Procedure towards the business order and the strictest and most transparent criticism as well as any representative to criticise and challenge the government's proposals. But I don't think that, you know, persuasion is appropriate, one part in your act day is in line with good customs and you call the Rules of Procedure a proposal from the Government to call it a trio and a home. That he's still considering it. And I would ask you to refrain from, criticise that, the rivalry of yes, but certain such qualifications is passed by one rubicon of relations and communication in Parliament and with the Government. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Frano Matešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1248	Mr. President, thank you. MP Vidovic hurt Article 214 and I think he deserves a warning about this demeanor. Especially in the part where he looked back and when he was talking to both the threes and the cabins. As much as I think it was worth taking advantage of the business opportunity to give him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1249	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure respected representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1250	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I also refer to Article 214 and I believe that Mr. Representative Davorko Vidim hurt this article of the Rules of Procedure because he has also disrespected and insulted representatives of the Croatian Government and representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community. But since you, after Mr. Vidovic stepped in on behalf of the SDP club, made a comment, then I give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1251	Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1252	Mr. President, it seems to me that the Rules of Procedure of our chairman has no right to comment and qualify for the performance of the MPs. Article 114(4) Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1253	Thank you very much. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Antun Vujic. Thank you very much, misspelled. Željka Antunović, correction, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1254	Mr. President, the breach is the Rules of Procedure calling on the Rules of Procedure to intervene on the breach of the Rules of Procedure which has nothing to do with the content of what is said. Namely, two representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community have called for a hay and a violation of Rule 214 which I am also calling on. But on the provision to disturb the session in another way, Mr Vidovic discussed and qualified the measure. In which he did not demean or insult either the chairman or the other MPs. The abuse of the Rules of Procedure, therefore, is also a violation of the Rules of Procedure. And you were supposed to intervene on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1255	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Representative Luka Bebić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1256	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was an appeal to Article 114, which says, if the Parliament rejects a motion to vote non-confidentially on the part of the Government that there was no relevant speech here on the vote of confidence and mistrust, then this call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been misused by a call for the randomly selected article of this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1257	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1258	Thank you. Mrs Antunovic's injury to the Rules of Procedure stated that it was not appropriate for the President of the Parliament or the chairman to benefit from commenting on the presentation of the MPs and she read Article 214 listing what Mr Vidovic did not do, but she did not read what Mr Chairman just said, it is that by his conduct he deviated from the general rules of conduct in the Parliament. And to that end, I think that, in that sense, the MPs who called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure in Mr Vidovic's exposure were right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1259	Another violation of Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1260	I did not report with the breach of the Rules of Procedure for the intervention of the chairman, but for the intervention on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of two parliamentary deputies. That's why by your untrue qualification of my intervention, you're hurting the Rules of Procedure again. Again the same article 214 and again the same item, disrupt the session order.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1261	Ladies and gentlemen, from the 1st constitutive session, we have reached full consensus that in a democratic tolerance atmosphere we will act, speak, debate, compete, criticise and act in the Croatian Parliament. That agreement does not really fall under the good rules of conduct and conduct. As chairman, as president of the Croatian Parliament or person sitting there, I am obliged to protect the dignity and dignity of all representatives and members of the government and I do not think it is appropriate that in this communication and treatment, despite the undisputed right of MPs and MPs to be used in disputes, criticism because this is the place of political confrontation of parties, programs, to use expressions like those used by Mr Davorko Vidovic, I believe that this deviates from the good rules, general rules of conduct in the Croatian Parliament. You can criticise everything, but you can't be called by my deepest belief that it's disqualifying to call it any government proposal, any MPs call it "three and a dog". I conclude this debate with these violations of the Rules of Procedure about it. It is my right and duty to protect the integrity of the Croatian Parliament, all representatives and members of the government. We're going to correct incorrect allegations. Ms. Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1262	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. I have to correct Mr. Vidovic's incorrect allegations. You listed Mr. Vidovic in your statement that this proposal is ideological and demagogue. I think that's not true because exactly the support on this proposal was given to the Government by the Parents' Associations, the Economic and Social Council and the Employers' Association. I believe and claim that...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1263	Comrade, time please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1264	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1265	Please, let's take care of the weather. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1266	Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect assumption that these measures are based on an inextricable and unprofessional approach. This is completely incorrect because we could hear that scientists and professional people were involved in the preparation of this proposal. I also want to correct the incorrect assumption that these measures are based on demagogy. And I'm correcting this inaccuracies in a way that I can only say that it's obviously so close to the representative Vidovic, that he recognizes her where she's not like she is in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1267	Leave the ladies and gentlemen alone with the warning. We don't need that. I would ask you the same colleague, Matušić, not to answer counter-valued court the same. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting the inaccuracy of fellow Vidovic, who said this bill distances a woman from the world of work. We have heard that 58% of unemployed women make this bill possible for counterpart Vidovic to choose a woman to take a three-year leave, and she who feels she will be far away will not consume it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1269	Next correction of the incorrect quote, the respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1270	Your Honor, Mr. President, I also have two or three actually correcting Mr. Vidovic's incorrect allegations. When he mentioned intricacies and ignorance, it is incorrect because the measure was adopted on the basis of statistical data, and the data is something on which every science is based. That's one thing. It's another thing. In preparation, she said, and the minister was involved by the most professional people, therefore scientists, in order to make this both professional and scientific, and that is the case. Another incorrect allegation is that Mr Vidovic mentioned that European countries are solving this problem successfully. And I say there is no European country, except possibly Albania and Ireland that has no... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1271	Thank you very much. My colleagues, please learn to take care of the weather, please. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1272	Mr. President, I would refer to the incorrect allegations in the definition of family. A colleague Vidovic gave a unilateral definition of the family that it is based on a partnership relationship. I would remind him according to the Christian worldview that the family is primarily based on love.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1273	The next correction to the incorrect quote by Ms. Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting Mr. Vidovic's incorrect claim that the government has no concept of social policy. The Economic and Social Council has adopted these three draft laws, and this is the social category that makes these three bill proposals because it will help mothers with a number of children, and most will help unemployed mothers. So in that part, and also Mr. MP was data, and related to the results of the national demographic renewal strategy of 1991, three and more children were 106,000 and 204, and in 2001, 120,000 845. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1275	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1276	Mr. President. Madam Minister, I am correcting Mr Vidovic's incorrect allegations that this measure has nothing to do with making a big difference between the living, when she could have had an effect after the first year and cited a huge difference between 1997 and 1998 between live births. That's right. It is also noted in the statistics that around 8,000 children were born less than I am now quoting the magazine, a professional magazine “Geography”...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1277	Excuse my colleague, please, I warned...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1278	One sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1279	Please stick to the order planned and I'm pleading for it again. I will act as I sit here with every representative independently of which party, equally with respect to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1280	Dear Mr President, I refer to Article 1 of our Rules of Procedure, which says: “The inner structure and way of working of the Parliament is governed by this Rules of Procedure.” Articles 213 and 214 refer to your rights, that the chairman maintains order at the session and that his rights are to maintain that order. You, as chairman, can give notice to a representative who you think has been injured by the Rules of Procedure. But nowhere in our Rules of Procedure does it say that you have the right to comment on what the representative says and to give your qualifications. You're in serious violation of the Rules of Procedure. If you think MP Vidovic deserves a warning, give him a warning, and then we will ask to meet the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and see if you have given the reminder justly or not. But you from your place to comment on what the counsel says and qualify his statement, you just don't have the right. And if you already want to be so...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1281	Thank you very much. Please finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1282	You also had a chance yesterday...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1283	Thank you. Thank you very much. I believe that I have dealt with my duty, not my right, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If someone is holding the opposite, please, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, make their decision to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, and call on the President to call on the meeting and to discuss this issue. I have a duty to protect the dignity and dignity of every representative and representative and of this House, but also of those members of the government and of all those involved in the work and communication with the Parliament. But please one thing, if we really want the Croatian Parliament to be a place to radiate with one positive energy and to the Croatian public, I see no reason, and I, I have a colleague Stazic, the President of the Parliament gives explanations. I do not comment, I explain in the process of passing the law under one of the Rules of Procedure, see. And this constitutional right stemming from the Rules of Procedure for the assessment of the entry of the general rules corresponds to the one chairing the session of the Croatian Parliament. We try to tolerate, indeed, and we can discuss and deal with all the issues and all the laws, and let us not create sparks where they are not really needed. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mrs Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1284	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I am here to defend these legislative proposals that the Croatian Government has issued to you, but to defend, of course, the dignity of the Croatian Government. So I reject these remarks that these proposals have been contaminated by demagogue, so in no way do we think they are not and can't be contaminated by demagogue because I repeat these legal proposals have also been supported by members of the GSV, so unions, union centres and employers, and then it would be logical to conclude that they are also contaminated by demagogue which I think is absolutely unacceptable. And the fact mentioned by the SDP representative also that 86% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have declared these measures, so the possibility of returning three-year maternity leave, i.e. the use of a three-year maternity leave, would then turn out to be contaminated by the demagogue by 86% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I also remind you of the reduced amounts of maternity benefits, that we in the Croatian Democratic Community organised a petition and therefore against such reduction and that we collected more than 350 thousand signatures. So almost enough to call a referendum. Therefore, I do not think that even the 350 thousand, or slightly more signatories of the petition, can be characterized by contaminated demagogy. The SDP also spoke, speaking of the government's social policy, I quote: "such a policy, social policy had the opportunity to watch for 10 years in the HDZ government's time". I just want to remind you that it was a time of aggression in the Republic of Croatia when this social policy took care of, at one point, about a million border guards and refugees who needed to secure a home and secure a roof over their heads. I would also like to recall once again that the profession, therefore, was supported by the interested professional public by this proposal, so also by demographics, as well as by doctors. As far as the finding is concerned, it would be more important to share birth benefits in the first six months. We agree, it would also be a good measure, but it's a question of why the former government didn't do it. She had a chance to do that. And to conclude that there is no example that the length of maternity leave is tied to the number of children. That's not true. I'll set an example for Poland. In Poland, the length of maternity leave is increased by the birth of the second and the next child. That's one example, and about Tris and Pucin, there's already been a lot of words, so I wouldn't talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1285	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1286	Mr. President, I'm correcting Mrs. Minister Kosor's incorrect quote where she speaks of 350,000 collected signatures to increase maternity benefits. Today, we are not discussing an increase in maternity benefits, but we are discussing a gesture, or a proposal for a law on enlargement, an extension of maternity leave. So that's two different things, and we might be happier all of us here to talk today about increasing maternity benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1287	I'm sorry, I don't have the impression that it's fixed, that it's about correcting an incorrect assumption. This is about a different commentary of the same fact. Okay. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1288	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Croatian Government, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the Bill's proposal, the amendments to the Health Act, the Labour Act, and the Law on maternity leave for mothers who carry out their own activities and unemployed mothers. Demographers have warned us of an alarming demographic picture of Croatia for years. For years we've been tracking the decline of fertility, the birth rate, the older the population, the more people die than they are born, every half hour we lose one resident. Last year, less than 40,000 were born in Croatia for the first time, as we said, exactly 38 thousand 274, while 48 thousand 368 were recorded dead. It's in the territory of today's Croatia, it happened in 1726. If this trend continues and the United Nations warns us that in 50 years the Croats will be 1 million less. The implementation of the innovative policy is one of the fundamental objectives of the Croatian Democratic Community. January 18, 1996. The Assembly adopted a National Demographic Development Programme defining measures to create conditions for a number of born, less evicted and more eviction returnees. It was adopted unanimously. The national demographic development programme overlooked measures to encourage parents to give birth to more children. As the application of these measures involved changes in a series of laws, areas of education, schooling, health, work and employment, etc., it was applied as we heard already their small part. I.e., a three-year leave, an extension of the users' extras for children, and a higher amount of extras for the third and each subsequent child has been made. After January 3, 2000, we meet with the suspension of a three-year maternity leave for twins, third and next children. Thousands of mothers leave and have to leave in 60 days and find a job, and place their children in kindergartens that we don't have enough today. At the same time, right behind, the extras are abolished and 25 thousand are left without income. The State Statistics Bureau records in 98.8% of families with several children or 98th or 2001, so forgive me, 13% of families have three and more children. The 98th was 12,000 so-called. Third-born children, and in 2002, only 7 grand. Of course it's discussionable and we can discuss it widely. This all indicates that a number of available measures should be taken that could also help more favourable demographic movements. This measure of ours may seem to be a drop in the sea, but it certainly represents one of the most intelligent policy measures. They tell us that we are conservative and that we are motivated exclusively by unemployed women, uneducated, low-income women, to have as many children as possible and to stay home for as long as possible. Let's not forget... The population in Croatia with high professional qualifications, and I noted that 58% of the people in Croatia are women. [[no switch]] I repeat again that the Croatian Democratic Community is offering the possibility to choose a three-year vacation for families with twins, three and more children. We are aware of the discrimination faced by women after maternity leave, getting a worse job and even quitting. We believe that the support of employers to these amendments of the Law also means reducing discrimination against women, and encouragement is also the support of the Ministerial Social Council, the Trade Union and the Roda Associations. Certainly demographic restoration includes complex measures, example insurance for young people more favourable credit, settlement of the apartment, permanent work, opening of kindergartens, work of kindergartens in shifts, and opening of pads insurance for free textbooks, etc., and everything we know is conditioned by social and economic changes in Croatia. The National Institute for the Family conducted an examination that gives demographic optimism, namely, women in Croatia want to have more children in statistics 2.7 and 97% believe that marriage as an institution is not outdated. This kind of positive attitude already gives us hope and it's up to us to take every step in population policy and support this one, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1289	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1290	I would correct the incorrect allegations about the UN study, I'll quote, that's what my colleague Kosor said. On December 9th, the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs published a report by the world's population in 2300. According to the study, Croatia is expected to have 2300th between 445 thousand and 13 and a half million inhabitants. However, they predict that Croatia's birth rate will grow slowly from the current 1.6 to 1.65 by 2005 and 1.85, by 2050 and reach 2.06 children per woman in 2300.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1291	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1292	I am correcting the incorrect assumption that the HDZ Government has implemented the largest part of the measures in a document called Demographic Reconstruction of Croatia, namely that you have implemented one of these measures, which is a child's allowance for all children and that is incorrect, during your rule, you have had four years, therefore the full mandate to implement the measures of demographic renewal of Croatia, you have not implemented 15 measures almost nothing and at least this measure of child support for all children is what we have introduced because in your time only children's parents' children have extended this right for all children.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1293	Thank you, colleagues. My colleagues, please. Honorable representative Antun Peru's correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1294	The esteemed colleague pointed out in her statement that if the netive trends continue for the next 10 years that in 10 years Croatia will be 1 million less, this is an incorrect quote, if these trends continue in Croatia there could possibly be 1 million citizens less because in Croatia live members of other peoples and peoples.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1295	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the Club Libre, Honorable Representative William Herman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1296	Mr. President, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. What is the current situation in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. In the Republic of Croatia, maternity benefits belong to all working mothers for the first 6 months on the basis of the average monthly salary paid in the last 6 months, before the month in which the maternity leave started and in 6 months to a year of life the compensation is paid from the state budget in equal and legal prescribed amount for all working mothers. Then unemployed mothers, mothers in regular schooling and unemployed mothers in disability pensions due to their professional incompetence to work during maternity leave. However, if a brief attempt is made to explain what is actually happening with a three - year maternity leave, a simple nebula should be removed. Three-year maternity leave is primarily a matter of appropriate cash compensation in our opinion, a fee that will certainly be sufficiently generous and also an appropriate standard in the mother's environment. Since this is not the case, the type of policy that must be given quotes and to whom it also corresponds with the quotes and the proposed solution. Maybe I'm wrong, but if you were to single out a few groups that might be okay with it, so the unemployed mothers who still get some kind of compensation but keep them at home permanently, you'd say to the person who's working on the labour right that it's a sort of work at home, work... That's probably not what we're trying to do. [[You don't understand.]] Modern society certainly doesn't. And by the way, did that woman have any real choice in this situation? Second, mothers are fired because they succeed almost in a humiliating way to delay the loss of working legal status and thus. And also to mothers of a family with higher material status, so the amount of maternity leave compensation is not important to them. It's not just crucial to them. Data, however, are being seriously warned, in Croatia it has been said several times, annually giving birth to less than 40,000 children. In 2001, less than 39,000 children were born. And it's about 8,000 children who belong to families with three or more children. They are also potential candidates when a three-year maternity leave returns. However, the indicators say, it is the statistics that should be warned, that most women return to work after a year, due to the literal fear of losing equal status or that possibility exists because of the birth benefits of only 1600 kuna. Don't they also warn that among unemployed women they belong to, unemployed women, they have to be told the sad nearly 60%? The data says that the unemployed, among the unemployed, are about 58% and slightly more unemployed women. So the Proposer should try to answer, please. In what way can women meet increased family and business obligations, and that is, in a competitive environment and the world of work that you will agree to dramatically change? Three-year birthmarks for women who are highly educated, without underestimating others, actually serious under quotes, don't take me wrongly inhabiting a waste of time. And they're going to say that it's about leading the most intelligent policy. It's probably true. But what happens to the real environment of a woman? And the answer to that question about what happens to the actual environment of a woman is a solution to the problem. And then if we turn around that way, let's focus on the problem I think there's going to be less politicization and even today's unscrupulous words of demagogy. So, just a few examples. State kindergartens, as the indicators speak, can receive only 30 percent of preschool children. The mangers should have six-month-old babies. Let's be realistic. How many kindergartens actually have such conditions? And this is an attempt to paint the environment that I'm talking about in such a way that they actually answer this question of what with a three-year maternity leave? And these are questions that mean trying to find the answer and solution with naturally increased maternity benefits. By the way, we make comparisons with Europe when it suits us, and we like to get a little angry with Europe when it doesn't suit us. And this time it is an example of an likeness, even the likeness of a righteous one who warns. So these available data show that in two-thirds of European countries, maternity leave lasts shorter than with us. But also that Croatia is with today's solutions among rare countries that pay 100% monthly wages for the first 6 months of working births. That's a fact. The more than 31 European countries only 8 of them, I think we heard it today, but it's worth repeating, pay various maternity benefits to unemployed births. According to the benefits of maternity leave, that is understandable Sweden is in the highest place because the only one who has paid maternity leave until the second year of the child's life. In Austria, maternity leave is possible until the second year of child's life, if used only by a mother for 18 months with a unique amount of compensation. In Finland and Greece, maternity leave may last up to the third and fourth years of life, but it is unpaid. Italy knows the category of parental leave from the sixth month to the third year of a child's life with a remuneration of 30%, and the unpaid leave may last until the eighth year of his child's life. That's the data. I'm sorry if I'm bothering you with that, but I've decided hard to keep it that way. Well, then, the data might be for some of us right now. Germany as an advanced and member of the European Union. Often our legal order is inspired by what is right, and that may be understandable, it seems German law. Even in this area. A working woman who has health insurance paid maternity leave can use 6 weeks before and 8 weeks after birth. The fee corresponds to the average net earnings of the insured person but up to EUR 13 per day. Unemployed mothers have to have private insurance in order to obtain maternity benefits. Then their fee is 204 euros per month, 14 weeks of parental leave lasts 2 years, and the fee is linear depending on the revenues. Here is an example, so Slovenia that joins the European Union this year. The maternity leave for working mothers lasts for 12 months, the fee is 100% income for 12 months, and can be extended for 3 months. Women who do not have paid maternity leave receive support for each newborn child 52% of the minimum earnings over 12 months. The family benefit for unemployed mothers is 52% of the minimum state salary. And finally, no less important, Bulgaria which is somewhere in some contingent of those countries that should join us in the European Union has the following solution. The maternity benefit is 100% of the receipt by 4 to 6 months. There is a possibility of using maternity leave for up to 2 years of a child's life at a cost of minimum income in the country, and up to 3 years of child's life birth is unpaid. Users of parental leave, but parental, therefore parental responsibility, responsibility and father, can, apart from fathers and mothers, be miracles both grandparents or grandfathers and thus use compensation if the mother agrees. It might be a little inspiration, Madam Vice President. Here are some comparative legal examples that suggest that we should give up calling for European experience when we are not responding or angry at this European experience if we are not comfortable with it. Because we have an example quite reduced and Slovenia which is at the door of Europe, Germany which is inside and Bulgaria which is somewhere in transition waters like the Republic of Croatia. European countries also know different species, it is not important to say tax reliefs for children born, but they are mainly aimed at single parents, or those who prove to support their children, is not irrelevant as a solution. Here's one that may not be very nice and should not be called upon. Some countries like Denmark, for example, do not pay compensation to mothers who have not finished school. But there's a certain message there, too. Because they are not, neither is considered part of the labour market and labour force. Thus, the above indicates that the Croatian system contains almost optimal solutions in this part, thus consulting European experiences, and having insight into its own possibilities. In view of the level of giving, and with regard to the duration of maternity leave. It seems to us that the measures proposed would put the principle of equal treatment at risk, or gender equality. Because it comes out of the context of the taken-over European concept by turning a woman into a pro-creation machine, not an equal subject. Let me conclude to propose to the government, Madam Vice President, that perhaps for a second reading, a projection of the effects may be prepared. How expected an increase in newborns would be. I think it's an important piece of information. Can we get to that? Of course, it's not probably a delicious joke, the simulation wouldn't be worth it. Simulation certainly wouldn't be worth it. What would be the budget costs by the end of the term of office? I say it without harm. So, for a four-year period. and we might see what would be done in the light of fiscals to make the proposed solutions realistically come true. Under these circumstances, and in the hope of being proposed by the Libra Club and accepted, we expect that there will be a comment on these proposals, we can be clear that we will not support the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1297	Thank you very much, dear colleague Herman. We have one correction to an incorrect quote, colleague Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1298	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Herman. Because he said that for highly educated women a three-year maternity leave is a waste of time. I'm correcting that quote. Because in the draft law, a three-year maternity leave is a choice and a possibility, and I cannot agree with Mr. Representative's claim that a mother who decides on a three-year maternity leave has lost her time because raising her children is not a waste of time for any mother, and we know that mother is irreplaceable as a foster parent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1299	Thank you, dear colleague Byte. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1300	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Honorable Representative Herman. Since you have called on the Government, I want you to respond immediately, so you have called on the Government to give up calling for European experience. Here's the quote. I want to say that the government will not give up calling for European experience. You mentioned, for example, the example from Germany, the length of the maternity leave, etc. But you didn't tell the other part that seemed unusually important to the government. In Germany, after the end, I read from a document prepared by independent Croatian trade unions. In Germany, then, after the birth leave, one parent has the right to a three - year care and child restraint fee. Also, the right to an allowance for children has all children at a progressive rate depending on the number of children. In Slovakia, after maternity leave at the request of the employer, the employer must grant a leave with the right to receive a child's care allowance for, for example, two years. In the Czech Republic, at the end of maternity leave, a parent who takes care of a child all day long has the right to compensation until the child's fourth year, so here we will continue to call on European experiences because we are thinking of, of course, experience in Sweden which is a distant, distant goal, but since Sweden's different measures we also think that this is one of the possible measures over a period of five years that has increased the number of children born from 85 thousand to 125 thousand. As for the government's call to make projections as much as this measure would, or as much as it would have initiated, allow the number of children born, I must say that the government will not make such projections until the final draft of the law, because I think it would be inadmissible, inappropriate, and of course the government does not want to oversee the family and at least something from the government's position to order or determine that would remind them of the Orvellian world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1301	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. There are several corrections to incorrect allegations. My colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1302	Thank you, Madam Vice President! Here, Madam Vice-President, the Government incorrectly called for foreign experience by quoting Polish legislation, German legislation, and it seems to me that some other countries, when she compared it to the fact that the identical solution is offered by these amendments to the law, however, none of these legislation says that a mother may but immediately speaks at the start of a parent, one of the parents has the right to a three-year leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1303	Thank you very much. What you say from the scene is not heard by those who follow the debate. The following came forward for the correction of the incorrect quote of counterpart William Herman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1304	Here, literally how the Czech Republic handles it. The maternity leave lasts 28 weeks for single mothers and twins for 37 weeks under the right of another parent. The maternity benefits are 69% of the mother's earnings, up to 186 Czech crowns, which is about 5.5 euros a day. In fact, Madam Vice President, on the proposal that I made, we didn't understand each other at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1305	Comrade Herman, you are not correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1306	Yeah, right. I have corrected the incorrect allegations regarding the obviousness of the Vice President about the situation in the Czech Republic. Here's literally, so I find it incorrect what it is. And secondly, I didn't propose those measures that wouldn't be strange. I've suggested constant simulations and with a desire to get a picture of how many measures will succeed. This has nothing to do with 1984, such as the title of Orwell's work, but it has to do with 2004, 2005 and 2006 and spending taxpayers' money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1307	Thank you very much, colleague Herman, time's up a little early. We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure. ... The injuries of the Rules of Procedure go shortly before the correction of incorrect allegations, so nicely please colleague Maria Byte first. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1308	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague named Herman injured Article 209. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because he spoke of proposals and compared certain measures and did not correct the incorrect allegations he reported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1309	Thank you very much. Comrade Dance, go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1310	Thank you very much. Not only my colleague Herman, but you, Madam Vice President, hurt Article 209(2), because his colleague Herman was speaking, not correcting the incorrect allegations. Moreover, the Deputy Prime Minister spoke of Slovakia and he spoke of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1311	Thank you very much. A colleague, Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1312	Thank you, Madam Vice President! Since my colleagues have already responded to the same article, I will only take advantage of the opportunity to read to my colleague, Article 209, who says that a representative in his speech will have to be limited to correction and not to additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1313	Thank you very much. I tried. A colleague, Niko Rebić, injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1314	... While correcting the incorrect assumption that if you cross over for more than a minute it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it is actually giving the possibility of politicizing with the subject or not sticking to the subject and I think that you are also violating the Rules of Procedure and needlessly here we are simply making the Assembly ineffective. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]] I think it would be much more effective if you took the word out after one minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1315	Thank you very much. I guess I was too much tolerant. I accept criticism. We now have several corrections of incorrect allegations. Comrade Jurjevic, go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1316	It is incorrect that Ms. Vice President Kosor is invited in this proposal to have European experiences because, as she herself has said, these European experiences predict and that men can get those three or two or three years, so I urge you to give us men the right to go on maternity leave for three years if our wives agree with this and then you will truly respect the European experiences you call upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1317	The correction of the incorrect quote is another colleague of Snježana Biga-Friganovic. I'm asking for a little silence in the assembly room.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1318	I don't know if I've heard wrong but I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of the Deputy Prime Minister who said it would be inadmissible and inappropriate to valorize after a certain time and assess whether this measure is appropriate or not. You didn't say that. Because if that were true, well that's exactly what the government's job is, since we don't have enough money, we care about every kuna. And I'll just remind you. In '99, we found ourselves in a situation where we had been late for months with family benefits. So don't let that happen in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1319	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1320	Madam Vice President, again, we are coming into the same situation that is hurting the Rules of Procedure, Article 209 that MPs are misusing the corrections of an incorrect allegation for something quite different that is neither similar to this Rules of Procedure nor to the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1321	I agree, we're going to have to go to a warning. Thank you very much. Please move on with the debate. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS colleague Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1322	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. As this debate has taken place today, I am convinced that by correcting the Rules of Procedures, replicas and violations of the Rules of Procedure, we will not increase nationality in Croatia by a single amendment. And I'm afraid if only we in this assembly would be in charge of Croatia in 2030 having a million inhabitants, not 3 of how this is being frightened. Since this is the first reading of this bill, and in anticipation of the second reading, there are other bill proposals that will respond to one whole and especially in the desire that the measures that the government will propose include the objectives of more born, less eviction, more return from eviction. And for the Croatian population to be better deployed in the entire territory of the Croatian state as already envisaged in the objectives of the national demographic development programme in the introduction. Let only a few of our thoughts at the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the coastal-goran alliance. In Croatia, there is a problem with the fall of birth, it is serious, the consequences for Croatia can be serious, and in Croatia we urgently need to put in place measures that will stop the fall and then make it possible to grow. By reading these three sets of laws, the three laws in this package are the difference between our club and the government's proposals, firstly in that one measure is therefore parking expected by others. Second, by the end of all the ways that are proposed, we disagree, but until the whole comes, it's hard to give final evaluations and something that hasn't happened so far, and we don't know if it's going to be proposed. In fact, it is not just enough to increase the birth rate if we already know that in Croatia one problem arises again, and this is irresponsible parenting in one of certain or more specific groups where no serious action has been proposed or taken so far to address this problem as well as the aspect of happy young people, but I will talk about it in an individual debate particularly from the aspect of the expected problem in Međimurje about it. At the 11th month of last year, the number or structure of unemployed women, it was often said 58.6%. However, the qualification structure of unemployed women is such that as many as 64.6% of them are without any professional training to qualified or highly qualified. Furthermore, at age up to 34 years of age, 48% of the total number of unemployed women are ready and able to give birth. Of the newly reported workers who came to the stock market from the world of work that was 22,000, 11,000 are women, so 50%. Why did they come to the stock market? By cancelling the employer, there were 14 thousand 800 workers, 7000 780 women, or 52.5%. Because of the surplus at the workplace of 3,900 workers who were named in that month alone, there were as many as 2,225 of them, or 56.4% of women. These data and these relationships are present in all months of this year, and therefore I claim that women fall into a more difficult employment category of people in Croatia today and that this problem does not begin when a woman who works either on a specific or temporarily becomes pregnant but already in employment policy there is discrimination against women in a particular part of the economy. And it is not a bad problem for Croatia in the Law on Labour in Sanctions but rather the problem is that there is no supervision and control in respect of certain rights, especially those of such discriminatory policies and there is a problem. We can impose stricter regulations or regulations into the law three times, but in executive terms, no one controls them and there are no sanctions. The second thing I said last night, and I'm glad Mrs. Kosor is here, what we expected, and in the VAT law, there is no VAT. Look, really, the whole of solving or stimulating the increase in the number of newborn children should always be monitored. We will be in this and the next one for more children, but at the same time we will charge VAT 22 kn per package of diapers, or 60 kuna on children's shoes or 20 kn on other children's production. However, when we reach kindergartens according to the data that I have, the capacity of the mangers in Croatia is so much that they can receive 15% of children in Jaslic age. And the capacities in Croatia are so that they can receive 35% of kindergarten children. Why is it so, not because the municipality or material would not want to build or open kindergartens, but because, under the existing pre-school law and on the financing of local self-government in some municipalities, expenditures per child kindergartens exceed 50% of the budget. Second, the participation of parents in the economic price of children's accommodation in kindergartens and mangers was 50-50 most common. Now, these pings are due to be shared with 70 or more municipalities and cities. The prices of kindergarten range from 800 to 1200 kuna, a nursery between 700 1400, 1500, 1100. So for three children in kindergarten at a minimum economic price and where the municipality co-finances 50% of the price, it is 1200 to 1500 kn per month. So the cost of preschool education, which is an attitude, is based only on the burden of municipalities and cities and parents, is one of the problems. Furthermore, I expected the demographic experts to confirm that the length of maternity leave is one of the reasons for the fall in birthright or one of the security of its increase. But I'm afraid this is the only measure we care about when three children are only 5 years old. So these rights are acquired for every third child, the oldest will then be 5 years younger than the 3 years old, and then the concern we now propose for this many practically ceases. And the woman after that goes to work. Which I want to warn you about. Is there a kindergarten in the municipality or not? Whether there's room in kindergarten or not. So three times 400, or three times 500 kn per child for kindergarten. So then we come under quotes of a free elementary school, then we make an effort to enroll a child in high school, then we come to en fax him if we have enough money to settle that too. And then there's an apartment to provide. So if we want to stimulate parents to a larger number of children, it's not enough to stimulate just the third and every further child, because in order to get to the bottom of this, we have to have the first and the second first. And parents in safety don't only think about when children are seven years old, but until they get a job, until they get married or get married, and they don't have a settled housing issue. This is why we expect the question of maternity benefits, the amount of children's allowances, kindergartens and mangers, Madam Vice President, to be the set. Especially in the department and funding of local self-government. Because otherwise, municipalities and cities will continue to avoid expanding capacities and increasing the share of parents in the price of the accommodation itself. BUT what I also want to say about terms and changes to propose maternity leave instead of maternity leave. I was warned by some colleagues and the union that this term of birth would be related exclusively to birth. But they said, and I believe that no woman is giving birth for three years, so it should change anyway. And especially because this right can be used by a father, it's actually about parental leave. It's not just about the act of childbirth. So what we expect between the first and second readings, and in particular other proposals and measures will be the basis for our decision whether or not we support this bill. And I would also ask that also when these other packages come into discussion and the first reading is supported by certain data not only at the level of the Republic of Croatia but if possible by county. Because moving a demographic image is different. And especially this problem of jobs, preschool education and other aspects of social life that can occur is not the same in each of the Croatian regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1323	I thank Mr. Representative... And allow me to inform you that the Vice-President of the Justice Committee, Dr. William Herman, has called the Sjedice of the Justice Committee today starting at 13:30 in Hall 202. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So on the second floor. We'd have time for another speaker before Mr. President of the Republic of Chile arrives, so if it would take really 10 minutes, then maybe we could. And I'd also be praying to whoever gets the word now, if it comes to the fact that the protocol earlier on how this all that is scheduled to begin today, then leave the pay phone at the moment. So we'll continue the session of course. I apologize a lot if it comes to that. There is a word from the representative of the Croatian Retirement Party club Mr Silvano Hrelja. And here was I apologize to Mr. Hrelja, the club representative of HSP, Mr. Slaven Letica. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1324	Mr. Vice President Baby, Madam Prime Minister, I've brought a lot of papers, but there will be plenty of these... minutes. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, the HSP club with a team of external experts has been seriously discussing these issues and proposals, i.e. legislative proposals and will in principle and voting support this proposal. However, I make an appeal when it comes to such serious legal proposals that we will be on the occasion of the next occasions to obtain these materials at least 7 or 15 days earlier. Furthermore, we expect that the theme of the demographic crisis or depression in Croatian society is the very theme that could otherwise be achieved by the unsatisfactory ideal of the parliamentary consensus. In fact, there is no dispute that the number of children born in these papers is unnecessarily referred to as the number of newborns constantly declines and that the trend will unfortunately continue. In this regard, the sad fact is, for example, If you open today's newspaper you will notice that yesterday the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has just decided that the Family Law to be discussed tomorrow is not an organic law. And it certainly needs to be done, and for example, the Media Act is an organic law. I urge you to make an effort tomorrow because it is a key law that regulates civil human rights in this country to gain the status of organic law and to treat it that way. As far as the terms are concerned, no one has mentioned them here today, suggesting a change in the crucial term from birth to maternity leave. It looks like some kind of linguistic or lecturing intervention. It's about one essential intervention. Namely, you've been allowed in the last 100 years in these areas to be called different -- maternity, maternity, maternal, parental, like some kind of general syntagma. Here the leave was related to the phenomenon of childbirth, which is why it was able to cover both generations, and here it relates to the concept of birth. So, in some ways, it is prejudged that it will be reserved for mothers and that is where Mr. Jurjevic turned his funny attention to it. This isn't about a banal example. Unfortunately, last year, the new government passed a family law that turned the old Croatian term "marriage" into a divorce. I'd like to ask you, Madam Minister, to take care of that, too. Divorced can be shores and rivers, and people and marriages break up. And that is, if Mr. Proposer of this request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the Family Law, Mr.... Radelj, who was also one of the group of experts that we consulted, drew attention to that fact. [[You don't understand.]] So, as far as the possibility of a path to agreement is concerned, there is one concrete proposal. The new government, on the basis of insufficient information, has an alibi for this, has made the wrong decisions to appoint two - one secretary of state and an assistant secretary of state - and has done the right thing to replace two persons who have been investigated or do not know what kind of prosecutions. She's made a mistake, unfortunately, and she's made a mistake in a shift she can fix. Davorko Vidovic mentioned that national family policy. It may be the best and most serious document of the old government and should be rehabilitated in two ways - not to improvise. I have great experience with demographics. They are beautiful, the people you have included are the best in Croatia. However, demographics have a professional flaw. They're always in a bad mood and pessimistic. And your team, especially if Croatian demographers because they were persecuted at political level are depressed because the Croatian population is constantly shrinking, the number of children born decreases and the Retirement Party has the best perspective in this society. In that sense, my second proposal is to amend the shift decision and to Ms. Dr. Adinda Dulcic at least included in this advice in some way. Because if I'm being serious, and I know what you're talking about, namely one of the leading experts we've consulted is dr. Gordana Cerjan Letica, who in her private life is my wife, the first or one of the first feminists in Croatia who still has the first husband and two children. As far as I know, everyone else has four, five husbands, one or no children. So, as for specific things -- just two, three more words -- they're right about those who say that one small measure is more symbolic. When it comes to symbolism, I think that the HSP proposal is one proposal that should be considered, and we are in favour of the pre-election programme for so-called. A welcome box, that every child born in Croatia should receive one gift package of symbolic value. It's a custom in America to really feel that it's welcome in this world. We've done one calculation. With $200 worth, it's about 15 million kuna in the state budget in that welcome package - I see that everyone is in a hurry - we were thinking of including that you know what a goldsmith Croatian flag is, the flag of the European Union, the text of the Croatian anthem, the lyrics "O beautiful, o dear, sweet freedom..." a crown for a multicultural element since we are a pro-European-oriented club that others, members of other ethnic communities have a part in that package, a review of daily news on birth day, ultrasound images etc. So that's the one thing that would also be in gestures, as far as family... Be without fear. [[You don't understand.]] I've been serious about this for 30 years. The basic determiner of population growth and birth since parents and traders cannot appeal to these to reduce prices, and these to give birth to children. Because child-making is a profoundly intimate act. Two people must either in the light or in the dark or in the dark with Beethoven or Pink Floyd have to do something serious. And in that sense, the fundamental determination is first, the friendly relationship of society to family, towards grandparents who are underestimated or despised in this... Those who serve for the protection of children and there is the position of the Croatian party a real comparative advantage because he is fighting for a traditional family. [[You don't understand.]] Another option is employment, employment and general mood in society. People must feel, see many flags of the Croatians in this House, and among these flags, here is when our friend came, we should certainly add to the European flag, and we will talk about this in the context of another topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1325	I thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1326	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Retired Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1327	I'm impressed because I'm a new member of this tall house, and I'm certainly pleased to place your colleague. However, I feel a little strange, given that the fullness here is still in shape rather than condition, and that has not been the case so far in my life. I'm gonna have to get used to it. We in Croatia are new to pensioners and we are learning this parliamentary democracy and our goal is to get as short as possible to be more precise and not to be burdened with the relations that once ruled in this House. But to assess the current situation and try to do something better for those who chose us. As regards these draft laws, we believe that the draft laws amending and supplementing labour laws, the Law amending and supplementing the law on maternity leave for mothers who carry out the independent activity and unemployed mothers, and the Prjiedlog Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, will not have the desired effects of increasing the birth rate in Croatia. Although a positive omen cannot be challenged. In fact, the laws only increase the scope of law for certain cases of birth leave, and that's a positive one. However, it is only a partial measure since the basic problem of the Croatian decision of the family is for one, the other, and not only the third and more children. We believe that maternity benefits should be increased at their own cost and that this is the basic requirement to be met. We suggest that these measures be put in the context of the national programme of demographic development of the Republic of Croatia in 1996, and compare the opportunities that were current on the labour market at the time, that is, today. There are important differences. We believe that today's solutions in the Labour Act, which is a dominant form of work, work for a certain time do not motivate the decision on pregnancy and family planning. However, I could make many examples out of my experience of discrimination against young women of future mothers, and it is my personal desire to see a pregnant woman again at the register in our supermarkets. All present work on black, high unemployment rates, inability to preserve job insecurity, are additional elements that suit the negative trend of birth in Croatia. Of course, all of these elements should be taken into account and strategically divided according to the positive discrimination of the mother, and especially mothers in the world of work with the objective of motivation, I stress the motivations for the birth of children and the creation of families. We believe that these suggestions can be improved in a second reading. And I hope that the motionary will take into account the individual arguments that colleagues and colleagues here have made in the discussion. I would like to ask the promoter to provide us with the views and opinions of the social partners in writing in future because they are very important factors for achieving quality social dialogue in our country. And without quality deep social dialogue, we will find the desired solutions. There's no objection, I know there's been a short time and I hope this will please me. Furthermore, we suggest to the President of the Parliament that, as soon as possible, Article 75. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall appoint 6 other members of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, from the ranks of social partners and professional institutions and associations in order to increase the quality of the work of the Committee. Finally, since the proposed legislation deals with non-binding law, Croatia's party of pensioners supports the proposed legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1328	I thank Mr. Hrelja. With regard to this proposal, which is fully established and relevant, we are now moving to complete the process of filling the working bodies of the assembly and with those of all external members. The procedure is now being initiated so that the working bodies of the assembly are also filled in, and this process will be completed by the next session of the Assembly, where it will then appoint and select all external members from individual working bodies. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1329	A prominent colleague said that in the Assembly, much more attention is paid to form than content. I think it's from our representative, Mr. Professor. Letice saw that the Croatian party of rights gave very substantial things to make the law even more quality. That's it. Maybe it was a lapusine, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1330	On behalf of the Serbian Democratic Independent Party club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1331	Mr. President, the respected "guilty" name, and the other colleagues and colleagues. I do not master the microphone, Madam Vice President, your idea and the idea of the Government that these amendments and amendments to the law are improving what is clearly to be improved in the Republic of Croatia, which is a demographic image and demographic capacity is certainly noble from both the state's point of view and from the point of view of state and national interests beyond doubt and justified. But I am not sure that the proposal to amend and supplement the law that this Law on maternity leave of mothers and other laws relating to them can achieve this important and justifiable goal. And for that reason, if you'll allow me in this first reading, I'd like to make a few remarks about the very idea that I say is justified and for many reasons undeniable, but I'm not sure that the measures provided for in this law are such that I can guarantee the achievement and achievement of that goal. First of all, it is quite clear that by looking at the state that we would like to have today and what in the modern sense these words should be developed with all their instruments and symbolically, and especially not functionally, should not be established as some kind of surrogate mother, parent. I'm afraid with this kind of approach that you're opening up with this proposal we're going in that direction and we're actually moving in that direction, and by all I understand and by everything I think we should do about this important and difficult problem for Croatia, it's certainly not the best way even when this symbolic function seems justified. The extension of maternity leave or maternity benefits on the basis of the time period is absolutely certain that in these circumstances only one part of the Croatian population can help, and I am not sure that it is the most vital part of the Croatian population. I am afraid that this concept bypasses all those who are not only working, not only those who are trying on the basis of work for themselves and others in society, but also those who have already entered into some sort of marriage community, and who, for one reason or another, have no idea that they actually design and expand their family in the reproductive sense of that word in the right sense. In other words, with this proposal as defined, if I understand it correctly, all those who are actually supposed to be married are bypassed, and because of the lack of economic assumptions, they are not. Then all those who are already married are bypassed, but they have not decided to give birth because they have no economic assumptions about it, and so are those who already have one child, and they are unable to decide on the next step either because they have no business, whether because their work is insecure or because they are too small, whether they have no apartment or residential care. How much of these people in the country are I don't know right now and I haven't had a chance to prepare myself in that sense for this exhibition and this debate. But I suppose that's a significant part of the Croatian population. And I'm pretty sure, I don't suppose so, but I'm pretty sure it belongs to the most vital part of our population. Why go around that part of the population and why prefer that part of the population that is not determined for these or those reasons, but perhaps not only in accordance with the belief, but also in accordance with the traditional approach of the family if I use that kind of expression so that I don't get the wrong idea, where children don't plan, but they happen? Why, in that case, make commitments, and in second place, help all those who have decided to plan a family and plan a social community together with the state? That's my question for me. That's my question, Madam Vice President, and for you, too, as a motionary on behalf of the government. Therefore, if it is a demographic recovery or a demographic recovery, it is absolutely certain that there are other ways to do so than this. This one's unfounded. It is absolutely certain that it is necessary to enable and guarantee this kind of social security. But is it just like this? Is this the way? Is under the circumstances of such increased unemployment rates as we have, in fact, implicitly support strengthening the unemployment rate. I don't think that's the point of this government either, that it's not yours either, but I'm afraid it might end with these consequences. And secondly, there was a live debate here yesterday over a proposal to cut VAT. Alive, but it is certain that the VAT reduction follows, as follows the issue of reforming the tax system in the country by one or another model. According to this one proposed by the government, but the reform is inevitable and certainly something that must follow. But with this proposal as set out, the benefits system is actually being extended, and you are certainly contradicting this proposal that was under discussion yesterday about VAT cuts. I am not saying that this is an item that will definitely compromise the budget and definitely question tax reform, but it is quite certain that in this way you are actually increasing and extending the system of benefits which the minister on the other hand would like to reduce. Therefore, there are two approaches within the government. The first one is closer to me right now than the one we represent with this bill. I could, of course, speak here and from the point of view of the population that I represent, but this time I'm going to go around it. I could talk about the return of refugees is also one of the options of how demographic loss can be compensated especially there in some areas where it's obviously a strong demographic loss, but right now because of the sensitivity of this topic and because of the importance of this one you're talking about, I'm not going to touch it. And finally let me say something Mr. President, Vice President which is not directly related to this subject, but it is with the debate we had yesterday. One of the participants is here, one is not. The one who wasn't here who said that he was reading his texts while he was writing them, and this one had the task of reading them. In fact, he insulted those who read and those who write, as well as those who speak and those who listen. I listened yesterday and did not intend to speak, today I decided to speak, so I wanted to mention it, but I would like those who write in the future and those who speak in this way not to mention or insult them. For those who read, as those who listen as you listen to me this moment, are rarely smarter than those who write and those who speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1332	I would like to thank the esteemed Pupovac. Proposer, Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1333	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, I have come forward because I have knowledge that this was the last speaker on behalf of the clubs, so I would like to recapitulate the debate so far, and of course I will try now when an individual debate of the representatives takes place as little as possible to report on behalf of the promoters, because the main points of view have been expressed in the comments of the representatives of the clubs. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction with the debate so far, there have been useful and valuable proposals that will certainly be put into place by the proposer as much as possible in the final draft of the law. I repeat once again, we have therefore gone to the amendments and additions of these three laws in regular procedure so that indeed the Croatian Parliament can express its position on the proposal, but of course also on the fundamental idea that is going through all three proposals. I am also pleased that the topic was dealt with by fellow MPs, and not just, that is, the Members of Parliament, and not only the Members of Parliament, because this is certainly not so-called. female question, this is a question of Croatia's future. It was said here on several occasions that there was also a question about how taxpayers' money was spent. Of course, but I think it's very clear and very obvious that this is one of the priorities of this government. Now I'd like to say a little bit about what Mr. Pupovac was talking about. So he said the system of privileges is being extended here. We think in the Croatian government it is not about benefits when we propose the possibility of using maternity leave for twin mothers, third and every child for three years. We think it's one of the possible measures, but it's quite certain until the end of that right that's what's called the right acquired. We want to get this whole area out of the social, so it's not a social measure, it's one of the measures this government thinks I said, and I'm going to repeat it once again to the first-class political, national, strategic, if you want and defence issue. So, if there is no nation for what all the strategies are, what are all the laws, so if there are no ones to which these strategies will apply. So, another finding that there are two approaches to the government, you mentioned yesterday the minister I assume Shuker who wanted to reduce how you said the benefits and then this initiative that wants to extend the system or the system of benefits. No, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen, it's not about two government approaches. It is about one Croatian government approach, a very unique approach. This measure is strongly supported by both the Prime Minister and all members of the government. It's about us estimating. He gave this priority issue, and we will give the priority issue the same place as our court deserves when a state budget is passed, so when the Government proposes a state budget to the Croatian Parliament. So it's not about two approaches and Minister Schucker is thinking the same thing I'm doing. Of course, without the support of the Prime Minister, neither Minister Schucker nor I could stand behind this speaker as he stood yesterday and as I stand today. So, once again, I want to thank you. I would like to remind you that this was one of the measures of the 1996 programme, which is binding on the Croatian Parliament as other similar documents are, of course, binding on both the Parliament and the Government. And of course, I want to repeat once again that no one has illusions, especially in the Croatian government, that such a measure could restore the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave could produce a spectacular change in the name of a year or two of newborn children in Croatia. Of course no one has any illusions about it, which is why I'm talking about mosaics, which is why I'm talking about a pebble. Of course we are aware that only the possibility of greater employment, the creation of new jobs, the growth of standards, the possibility for young people to buy apartments, to build houses, to work and of course to plan their lives and their future can significantly move to stop the negative trend in this section of population policy. Therefore, I ask you to support these proposals once again in your first reading because I repeat it was something that we announced and what we promised and, as you know, received public support, received support from the repeat GSV and certainly that this could be the beginning of longer-term measures and the next one coming will certainly be related to the adoption of the state budget and the Law on the implementation of the state budget when we will discuss the return of birth benefits to the 2000 level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1334	I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister. This is what we've concluded with the club debate. Now we're moving on to individual debates for 10 minutes I hope just as tolerated as it was in the morning. It is next to the distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1335	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, I think there is no one in this Chamber who does not share the concern that Croatia is getting older and smaller, but I think we are only different in ways to do it. We are not the only country facing this problem. Many countries in the world have the same or similar problems, many of which have far bigger budgets than the Republic of Croatia, allocate very large funds, have a number of measures, and some countries have had these effects, some do not. So it really takes a series of measures and a question of what measure will be good and what measure will indeed be one that will be encouraging for people to have a slightly greater number of children than today. What makes me think that this measure is something that will not bring any shift, and I think it's been going very quickly with this measure to the 1st session of the Parliament. I think it was much better maybe to come up with some more things and then go with them to the session of the Parliament, so I don't think that this measure will be enough because in Croatia is the fact that there is a need to encourage another child rather than a third child. Therefore, we need to go to those measures that will encourage families to give birth to another child rather than to a third child. This morning we also touched on this programme of demographic reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted in 1996 by the Croatian Parliament and which I found this morning that there are some 15ths of this kind in a rough number of measures, and I must say that I am now not saying that I am also not saying this because of who did what in this part of the population policy but because I am saying that we have been very correct because I think that is indeed one national problem and we have achieved one part of the measures that were in that programme at the time. I also hope that you will then continue to do all that is... family policy, given that that policy has also been done by the work of the people you have today appointed as your advice because there is simply no wider circle of experts on this subject in this few countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we cut housing interest from 13% to 7 percent for people who solve the housing problem and have up to 35 years old, encouraged housing, so to make it easier for people to get to the apartment, the tax reliefs that we've introduced, which are now going, come into effect from 1.1., on loans to settle housing issues, children's allowance that no longer enters the property censorship, the child's allowance, which we gave to our children, of course, with a certain asset price to make more fair money. In the Labour Act, we banned the night labor of pregnant women, or all women. So that's one part of the maternity benefits we've extended, so for all women and the unemployed. So, here, that's what we managed to do, and that was partly written in this demographic policy brought by the Croatian Parliament in '96. The only thing I'm glad about is that one measure didn't happen, and that's that parent mother status because a very large number of women would be definitely removed from the world of work in that way, which I think is very bad. I'm only sorry that some women believed that this status would come true. It did not come about because of the lack of funds never, which gave birth to the fourth and fifth children and unfortunately, then a cruel reality struck them and unfortunately, to this day very hard to live and feed those children because, behold, they believed that the state would be able to give them that status. Unfortunately, the lack of money made it impossible to do so. A few days ago from the Croatian Employment Service we received information that 58% of women were unemployed, which means we almost got close to a number that was current 15 years ago. So we're in that part, so today it's very hard for women to manage the labour market, that they're less and less like work. And I think this is exactly the kind of measure that will in some way motivate women to stay at home for three years, that they'll get further away from the labour market. Which is why Croatia cannot afford, I will say, because 50% of the female population is 50% smart, potential, working, therefore, labour energy that Croatia has. Given that we have a growing working-age population, this is something to be exploited, without which Croatia simply cannot go on. And that's why what needs to be done, women should not be pushed solely to stay at home and be mothers but should help them to comply with their work and family obligations and, therefore, work. What you said that GSV gave you support, that is something to welcome, but the problem is I think because it's a good part of that declarative nature. In fact, the first part of the Employers' Association is only one part of the economy, so if something can affect the employers' association, it can affect only one part of the economy. The second part of the economy, as Mr. Cacic said yesterday, is not the Red Cross, operating on market principles. Therefore, no one can force them to do anything. What we can force is what I said this morning, implement that article of the Labour Act, which can only be carried out by one well-organized, therefore, by inspection of the work that will then be sanctioned and punished for the purpose of starting to start, by the whiskey fines of an employer who will fire women for being pregnant, who will not receive them. Although there's something to say that some things will be just as hard to prove. I'm just going to say, for example, that it took one Canada 15 years to get her first judgment that she's not taking a woman to work just because she's a member of the women's sex discrimination in employment. So it took them 15 years to sanction such a legal provision for a court ruling and then to sanction the kind of behaviour of employers. Therefore, this is what will need to be done, of course, if something can help appeal well, but I am afraid, therefore, that the market works according to its principles and there are no other mechanisms to force them to do what we think we should do rather than what brings them profit and they hire those who can give the greatest effect. But I think we should keep going with the line of credit for the female entrepreneurship we started with. That line gave good results. At the Croatian Employment Service, there is a fairly large percentage of women who have said in the survey that they are ready to enter the independent entrepreneurship. Therefore, that number of women should be allowed to receive credit under special conditions and to go into self-employed entrepreneurship and thus a number of women can be motivated and dragged into the world of work and I think that this is something that, behold, this government should continue because this has proved to be very good. On the other hand, there is also a need to take care that world studies have shown that the only, only dam to prevent poverty is the employment of both partners in the family. Therefore, take care of it if both parents are not employed. There's a very high chance that the family is going into poverty, and I think that here we all primarily advocate one responsible parenting, not the parenting in which people are going to be here, fighting their social troubles. Also, some studies, some of the research done in European countries, but which has been done in Croatia, show that the basic problem is that women do not decide, and even families at all, to a large number of children precisely because they find it difficult to reconcile, i.e. to balance their work and family obligations because most of the work is still purely on women and because, when you are out of work in Croatia, it is very difficult to find a new job. So, the best chance you have is to stay a long time at the Employment Service, and then the question is how are you going to feed two kids, go to school to what was said today, so to college. Since, behold, time is somewhere near the end, I would just take advantage of the opportunity and say that I hope, Madam Minister, that you will continue to implement all 35 measures recorded in the family, the National Family Policy adopted by the previous government or, rather, the previous assembly of the Parliament. I don't think energy needs to be spent, it might need to be done, there's still some measures to be complemented inside, but in any case, you don't need to waste energy to do some new policy again, to come up with something again. So, we should go ahead and do it. It is primarily necessary to provide certain financial resources, not so small, that all of this can be implemented together. And one more thing, I hope that by the second reading in this Act you will also put the possibility that this three-year maternity leave is not only used by mothers but also by fathers, because I think that the child is equal to both mother and father, and not just mothers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1336	I'd like to thank the Honorable Representative Opacic. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1337	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, MPs and MPs. The basic thesis of these amendments to the bill is and their message is few of us because a woman works, a woman needs to be in the house to give birth, after a third child another and so several times and will fill her life first this... part then practically and her lifetime. We here in the SDP you saw from our discussions we say exactly the opposite, few of us because the woman does not work, because it is a difficult family situation, because the Croatian family cannot survive, one survives with two salaries and let alone with one. Therefore, the truth here the promoter has right away and the answer is only the possibility for a woman to choose, the truth is still only at the level of opportunity but if the number of inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia is drastically reduced it will no longer be possible but a commitment, because each almost politics simply exploited the female body and turned it into a polygon of exercising itself simply its efficiency, it is inadmissible. After all, when the promoter called for a situation in the world in the Czech Republic, in Poland other countries, then we see that it is not about the mother but about the parent and their right to declare it. So, I think if we want to seriously tackle this issue then we need to consider it in a way that will overcome sexual differences, I think that's one of our common goals, and that's the only way we can achieve satisfactory results. Therefore, it is irrefutable that motherhood and general parenting have not been for a decade, but for several decades in the Republic of Croatia are seriously in crisis, how since this crisis is still current, perhaps even more recent crises can only make one quantum leap in such a way certainly not, so it is known that women and employees do not take advantage of a year but go to work first of all because they are small fees but for other reasons, of course, sometimes professional ones just to greet. The past government has devised an entire programme of measures of population policy that systematically covers this problem, and, as counterpart Opačić said, we appeal to the government to continue implementing these measures of population policy. Thinking... The absence of a mother from work has contributed to the impact of increasing the population and increasing the birth rate is resilient and discriminatory, even those who seem to support this, therefore these doubts are also present. [[You don't understand.]] The mother in Croatia is giving birth to 1.3% of children, so not even 2 children, it is essential that we encourage the birth of another child first and that the policy of intelligence should not be social policy, we do not give birth to children for social care, we give birth to ourselves, for family, for society. So let's not offer others something that we're not prepared to decide for ourselves, we work here we have high wages, a woman who has a high salary she won't stay for three years to get 1600 as each of us would have so much to use these great benefits as she wants to show. So, there we have to be honest, not offer others something, and for others, it's something good that's not good for ourselves, maybe it'd be good for the unemployed only, but the question of how much more so with such a lack of competition in the world of work. So it is clear that this is not an answer to Croatian demographic and social challenges, it is only certain and only some cost that is not even so important. But what's not good with this proposal is whether or not the government really has as much denial as it does, is simply ideologies the problem just because it's not a parent's option, but a mother's, and we simply can't get kidnapped, and we have to criticise it, so we want to reorganize society so it creates and exploits the difference between public and private, between home and social, between female and male, so there are gender roles. The role of all of us here as a prudent legislator is for the family to set up a system of values here in family relations that makes it acceptable and clearer at legal level. It is our role to ease this asymmetry between public and private jobs and houses just to achieve the desired goal. We are forced simply by a stereotype of the 19th century about a mother at home, it's a norm, it's a standard, it's a desirable behavior, everything else is even some kind of a derivation that just isn't stimulated. It stimulates staying at home. Therefore, motherhood is identified by education and fatherhood primarily by conception and its economic power. Women in Croatia conduct a survey and you will see the desire for equality, gender equality, private life and especially seek partnership. The real solution to the problem is that of the existing gender inequality that must just be achieved in changing the parenting system. So both men and women must participate equally in education, it is a constitutional obligation, it is a legal obligation. It is therefore unacceptable to stimulate only one of the parents and that is the woman with certain measures of even legal nature. And I don't think we should all spend this many words together because there's not a lot of people who'll accept it. Therefore, these legal proposals are almost irrelevant, however, they have one negative economic and political situation, as the economic and political situation of women will deteriorate. Because I say politically, these messages are being ordered and the economically real thing that has been pointed out here several times, here's a colleague, Opacic, who last pointed out that there's no overlapping. By forsaking birth leave and thus by staying and stimulating the calling of a housewife, therefore, women are undoubtedly becoming uncompetitive in the labour market. Something really common is one patriarchal mininicry, and I think it should be made public. Finally, Croatia adopted the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women whose article says that all governments should both parliaments or parliaments end the traditional roles of men and women especially in the family and especially in the interests of the child. Therefore, family policy measures set up for housing loans, women's affirmation, labour flexibility, the development of family entrepreneurship should be implemented, the establishment of centres for families should therefore be affirmed responsibly and, and equal parenting. I think that's how we're going to get results right now, and maybe here, I'm going with a very concrete proposal to go to the government, we can't act as an amendment, but I think that's how we're going to test whether the government really means it. A woman who has a third child is a brave and responsible woman. Give her primate on equal terms in employment. That'll do the trick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1338	I would like to thank the honourable representative Marinović. Correction of the incorrect quote Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1339	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, the correction of the inaccuracies, it is a little two minutes for me to disprove what Mrs. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović quoted as saying. Her ideological performance, about this subject, I'm not contesting her. She's so colored, she's entitled to it. But why is he speaking for himself? Why is he disrespecting all those who think differently? Because it's not about the subject that,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1340	I'm asking you to correct the incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1341	Please, a woman through and through this approach, or the law that is before us today, is not moving away from the world, but has the right to choose. And the woman in society in this, in this world and this Croatia will not be a slave to red ideology who brought back a woman not as Mrs. Ingrid Antičević said at the patriarchal time but at that time... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1342	Thank you. Time's up. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1343	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Representative has not corrected my claim that she has even misread my opinion. I'll tell you now my opinion on it,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1344	Please specify which article.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1345	Because she didn't call, she didn't call, so she didn't call...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1346	Name it, I beg, I beg for, I beg for silence.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1347	Article 209 and Article 209 ... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1348	Please specify an article which is a representative... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1349	So she hasn't fixed anything. It's about an injury to Article 9. Rules of Procedure. She hasn't fixed anything. She spoke only her own opinion, and then I will take the opportunity to say my own opinion that a woman is both procreation of birth and creation of creation. I'd love to. But don't give her any warning because she's a woman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1350	You have no right to debate. You don't have the right to debate. Thank you very much. I saw some of them pull out, here's a thank you. I hope it will be a future practice. The guest of Gordana Sobol is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1351	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I will start with a few figures that say 4 million 437 thousand Croatians live in 913 thousand families. Of which 46% of families with one child, 41% of families with two children, 13% of families with three and more children. The average number of household members is 2.9. In how many years will the population of Croatia die? Top theme, I'd say in the media in the last month. And that's good, because I think you'll all agree later, I guess we can't lie that there's no problem in that area when it's a problem that the vast majority and much more developed countries are facing. Croatia is no exception, it is not, I would say in this way in no better, but fortunately it is neither worse than many other countries. And then of course there's the question, so what's the problem? Well, I'm looking at the problem myself. The problem is that the reason for all these inscriptions for the last month for statements of various associations, experts, demographics has given one government proposal for a measure that I wouldn't even call a measure. I call it a gesture. The gesture that allows for those who want to do so is about women three-year maternity leave if they have more children. And then, in fact, this gesture, I repeat, is not a measure for me, the gesture in the public shows as a small but very significant rock in the mosaic of a measure that thinks to improve the demographic image of Croatia, and in fact that the gesture has no effect and I will definitely be affected by women, their position in society, and I warn: primarily by younger women, the younger population because it is some measures that will not, or gestures, give results overnight rather than their long-term effect. So young women who are just in school, and we all know that women are getting more and more educated today. They just need to start a working relationship. Later on, they decide to marry and have children. Trends in birth rate have been present in Croatia for decades. So it's not just about the last few years, it's about decades. And the whole issue is extremely complex and for me, the illusion that such a gesture will meet one guarantee because it is said here many times today, will lead to the improvement of the demographic picture of Croatia. Even more so, this gesture will not only significantly affect Croatia's birth rate. I'd dare say that in its essence it contains, here's a distorted logic, instead of the state worrying about how to provide funds for better preschool care, for opening mangers, kindergartens, adapting their working time to the real needs of today's family,... We offer those who want a three-year leave for three or more children. And so, in fact, in my opinion, the burden of demographic restoration is of course on whose back, but on the back of a woman. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] I will repeat the words of the Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Kosor, who, in my opening argument, cited, and which I could agree with. That the documents brought in in this House, no matter what mandate and when they were brought in, should be binding and binding on those who came after those who brought them. I would easily agree if Minister Kosor, as a representative, also referred to the documents brought by the past authority in the past term as a reference, and I stress, with the consensus of all those who have made this Parliament. Why am I saying that? Because when the minister mentioned a national demographic policy that has been suppressed since 1996, she did not mention in a single word what followed after a few years, which is a national family policy, and God forbid a national policy to promote gender equality. And unlike this government now, the truth is only about a month's worth of power. The past government did precisely at the request of the Parliament, an analysis of the national demographic policy that has been addressed to all MPs showed that this national demographic policy has been done in some other time and that it has been well overcome. The good part of it has not even been realized, especially in the part of it that tried to express itself, retraditionalize family relations and the position of women in the family, and thus in society. And therefore, through this analysis, there was a national family policy, and there was one definition that I would say a real and consistent family policy that is suitable for time, circumstances, needs and material opportunities for the Croatian economy. And it is precisely the most basic course of action, as well as the measures that go towards long-term and sustainable planning and the implementation of an innovative family policy that has been adopted through a consensus through national family policy. I would be much happier and happier if someone in the new government had taken this national family policy, that the views proposed by these measures, which direction of development had made one analysis and that then came here to Parliament and based on such an analysis proposed really concrete and real measures, and not that, as in many cases in the last month, it remained primarily at gestures.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1352	I thank the esteemed representative Sobol. On behalf of the Proposer. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. Mr. Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1353	Dear Mr. Vice President, it is incorrect to quote colleague Sobol that the public and experts have only come forward for the last month, and that the reason for the motion for a decision is, that is, the proposal that the new government has made today. And your government has been providing that information that you're saying is only now talking about them for the last month. And experts have been warning about that fact for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1354	I'm asking you not to open an argument, you've corrected an incorrect one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1355	Please, I'm very good at explaining what it was, and I'm telling you exactly what I'm saying. Well, Mrs. Kosor kept warning of these facts during the last session of the Parliament. I'm making an excuse for being an incorrect allegation, I'm saying is an incorrect quote, and I have to say exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1356	Thank you. Time's up. The next is the correction of the incorrect allegations by the distinguished representative Željko Nenadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1357	Mr. Vice President of the Government, Madam Vice President of the Government. Correction of an incorrect quote, referring to Mrs. Sabol's quote that, I apologize to Sobol, that the burden of these three years is being broken over the back of women. I also appear here as a member of the Committee on Gender Equality, I would say "family," and the family are both male and female, because if a woman is at home taking care of children, it's the man who is hurting. So...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1358	Thank you. Time's up. Next to correct the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Pleško.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1359	Mr. Vice-President, I am reporting on Mrs. Sobol's incorrect claim, as she said this measure would not increase the birth rate in the Republic of Croatia, because I believe that, and it is visible from the area of Krapina-Zagorje County, after it has been delivered.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1360	I'm sorry, you can't correct Agent Sobol's opinion. If you have an correction to an incorrect quote, I beg you, and correcting an opinion is not your right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1361	Mrs. Sobol said she wouldn't be. In Krapina-Zagorje County, it was evident that from 99 to 2002 there was an increase in the number of children born, and that after 2002, when the rights were abolished, there was a reduction in the birth of children.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1362	Thank you. It's been a while. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1363	Mr. Vice President... If I didn't know the agenda of today's session and what was being debated from Mrs. Sobol and her predecessors, I would have the impression that, in this House today, there is some degree of discrimination between the sexes. [[no switch]] Such an impression would come from Mrs. Sobol and her predecessors. So that's completely incorrect. Also, their presentations kept getting harder about what the former government had done. Well, for the sake of the Croatian public, it is really in this House that we should say what it is that this government has done, and it concerns this very category that we are talking about today. Namely, it should be recalled that it was they who abolished the three-year leave, it should be recalled that they had abolished the student extras as well. It should be visited that they have reduced the compensation for financial amounts. So that's what they really did that reflected negatively and certainly had an effect, although it was very difficult to prove, of course. But it certainly had an effect on the demographic image in the last period. It is therefore absolutely incorrect in this direction to direct the debate about gender discrimination. And it is time to understand that it is positive measures that will certainly give positive effects in the future when we talk about the demographic picture in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1364	I thank Mr. Honorable Representative. All right, answer, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1365	So anyway, I remind you first that this is a principle debate in the first reading of these laws and MPs or MPs have the right to speak within it, to be classified as what they think a measure or in this present case gesture will do in some area of life. And otherwise to what you said about the family in the area of family relations by the former government I belonged to, so I'll just say: the former government is that it has more justly distributed the money that was intended to help families correct the wrongs that you did until 2000.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1366	I thank the honourable representative. It is up to the distinguished representative Jelena Pavići Vukičević. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, on behalf of the vice president and the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1367	I'm sorry to hear from you, but I would like to make it clear on behalf of the promoter that there would be no doubt or consequences for the subsequent debate, I would like to say a few things on behalf of the Government regarding these legislative proposals simply to clarify, for example, the finding made by Mrs. Sobol that this gesture or this measure will be called a gesture and we think it's a measure, we claim that it is a measure, that it will hit young women. The government rejects such a possibility, it can't be possible, the legal option of choice, the legal possibility of someone choosing whether to use a three-year leave or not, can't hit anyone. It's a matter of choice, a family deciding, a woman deciding whether to use it or not. That gesture as you call it was used by about 11,000 female employees. And as far as I know, they felt neither affected nor felt that something was breaking over their backs because they used it. At the moment the government abolished the measure, it acquired the right within 60 days, women had to cope, return to work and ensure the protection of children for which there was no infrastructure. In the opinion of this government, it was something that affected women. It really hit women and hit families because they had nowhere to put their children. A respected representative also says that the government rather than offering better accommodation in kindergartens, better preschool care, offers this gesture. Of course, we agree, but the question is why, for example, in Zagreb in the past 3 years since the SDP with a coalition partner, or coalition partner, has not produced a single kindergarten? So, not one, not one place to secure that better preschool care. Zagreb as the capital of Croatia and as the capital. Mrs. Sobol also mentioned that I did not mention either national family policies or policies to promote gender equality, but I think, respected advocates, of course, that this is understood because I said that all the documents that are being adopted in this House are binding. I also don't think you can expect from a government that's been doing just a little bit more than a month that could have made significant steps in that regard. But here's one we do these days. Finally, we're setting up an office for, or we're putting in motion, we're giving the right meaning to the Gender Equality Office, which was declared a declaration last year in July, but it didn't work, and we're just doing it these days. So, the Gender Equality Office will start working. And of course, on behalf of the Government, they can't agree that these are not concrete and real measures. Yes, these are concrete and real measures relating to concrete and real people. And I remind once again 86% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have declared themselves in a poll to be able to return, i.e. the possibility of using a three-year leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1368	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. To correct the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1369	Thank you nicely the president has said that it is not an injury to this that these legal changes are not a violation of gender equality that will not negatively affirm the status of a woman. Namely, it is the direct opposite of being told again about the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women, which says that family relationship and motherhood especially in raising and raising children understands the equal partnership and accountability of both parents. The Committee for Equal Opportunities of Women and Men of the Council of Europe also recommended that governments be introduced and respected in the manner of paid parental leave for both parents. In Europe, it is no longer an exception for both the prime minister and the minister of men to take maternity leave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1370	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1371	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I ask you to protect today's proposer of this law. Let's not let you get this out of the way, Mrs. Anticevic, I refer to Article 209. The rules of procedure of Rule 209 of Article 2 of Mrs Anticevic did not disprove any of the latter's proposals or ministers. It's always about something she thinks. Her opinion here today isn't that important.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1372	And now you've hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1373	I called for Article 209(2), as a representative, I have the right. You don't let me answer it, then I won't answer it either. We're not gonna let one of you do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1374	We're exhausted. It is up to the distinguished representative Jelena Pavicicic Vukicevic to be with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1375	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. In the media announcements of the proposed set of laws dealing with material birth rights, the desired direction of legal provisions as well as the undeniable starting points on which the Government of the Republic of Croatia confirmed unfavourable demographic movements. And the need for a constant improvement in measures to protect families and children. The fact is that in the Republic of Croatia, 20% of children were born in 2003, compared to last year. And the fact is that all the institutions of society need to make additional efforts to improve our country's demographic image. BUT the surprising surface of the proposed legislative provisions on which everyone knows all about, Mr. Chairman, if you can only secure a little order. Thank you. So the surprising superficiality of the proposed legislative provisions on the subject everyone knows about points out the entirely cosmetic nature of the amendments and the addition of the laws we treat in this united debate. This isolated measure, i.e. the cross-border birth leave rights for mothers who give birth to twins third and every subsequent child in the use of no more than two-year-old but three-year leave will not do much to stop all of Europe's declines in the number of children in the family. Proposals for amending and supplementing the law ahead of us continue on the government's social policy in the past term. Governments that were largely social democratic. Let's not forget, the decision to extend social rights to births is precisely part of SDP's social policy in relation to the narrow social rights of HDZ authorities by 2000. The government of Prime Minister Racan has just extended the aforementioned rights to unemployed mothers and mothers in regular schooling. Because every mother and every child regardless of the status of a mother has equal needs in which the legal and social state is obliged to participate. This measure can be seen as an upgrade to the social policy of the previous government. But I'm afraid we're headed the wrong way. Listening to any public and gender initiatives envisaged by 10 million kunas, it would be more appropriate to spend what the public recognized as the right measure of the most intelligent policy, which is an increase in maternity benefits and their demining. However, this is also a pre-election promise of the HDZ and will be interesting to see how the 2004 budget will try to be balanced and social and developmental. And the development component of the budget is an important segment of Croatian society that brings social stability into the Croatian family. Let me support my thesis with some current programs, which are better quality than the proposed three-year leave to help the family and can act demographically. In the Zagreb area, the problem was registered in 2001 after the first results of the census were published. We built our views on the most intelligent policy and its possible measures in the area of local self-government on the leading Croatian demographics. In addition to free textbooks for the Zagreb elementary school, the town hall of Zagreb has set aside the budget year with an adjective allowance until the child's 6-year-old. Thus, each Zagreb family will receive a monthly 100 kn child's allowance for the first child, for the second 300 and for the tremulous and each subsequent child 600 kuna. These programmes contribute to the fact that if the Government really wants to increase concern on the family plan, in matters and in the creation of an intelligent policy, a greater impact should be given to units of regional self-government. The decentralisation process should be started to continue in this area. It is through social care laws that it should be possible but fiscal policy to encourage and compensate for the impact of local self-government on innovative programmes. Local self-government units need to be able to have greater influence through the decentralisation process and to encourage money distribution on programmes of importance for the family. The surface area of these legal proposals is obviously further in the arbitrary lexis exchange of maternity, birth. I'm asking you to reconsider that decision anyway. I believe you've been seduced by the root words. Because it would really be more instructive and humane to use a term whose root is related to the subject of the process, so they give birth, not in the act itself. I'm having a baby. This would indeed be so if the applicable law did not also know the category of father who used maternity leave after a mandatory 42-day maternity leave or now maternity leave that was made possible by the provisions of the Labour Act. I therefore used the term "natal" in the presentation instead of the proposed "parent" which I consider to be semi-bad and which discriminates against the father of the beneficiary of maternity leave because neither this Proposal on amendments and additions to the Labour Act abolishes the right of fathers to the right which, in full sense, helps to build gender equality in every sense. Likewise, the term "parent leave" should actually be used. The introduction of a three-year maternity leave puts each woman of childbearing age in an unfavourable position in front of the employer. For the employer, each woman of childbearing age is a potential beneficiary of a three-year maternity leave sooner or later. Despite our need for identification, we representatives in the Croatian Parliament are not the very people of Croatia, nor are the employers of the Croatian employers individually and in vain the appeals of their association when we know what the treatment of women in employment will be, but also at work. I would end my presentation as a mother with a kind of appeal for the design of sublegal acts that would, by simple improvements in technical nature, protect their mother's dignity and make life easier for them. In fact, employees of future mothers on prenatal leave 28 days before birth or those at the care of pregnancy as well as midwives unfortunately in this society are not equal to other citizens. Namely, birth benefits are paid by order through the Post Office Bank, so for your home bank you simply cease to exist as an entity. It's amazing that we can take a tax return to our current account, and the birth benefits in moments of not too much mobility can't. That way, the family is not promoted and the mother is not protected regardless of the number of her children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1376	I thank the honourable representative. It's time for the Honorable Representative Drago Prgomett. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1377	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Now, after a mother talked about this problem, it's time for a father to look back on the problem that we've heard a lot about today. I'll start by saying something we've heard on a couple of occasions without the big statistics. But the fact is, in 2001, with Italy, Bulgaria and Belgium, we were the only European countries with a reduction in population. Unfortunately, it is possible that black assumptions will be realized that in some 15 years, this country will have fewer inhabitants than there are today in a county like Osijek-Baranja, so for some 3 hundred thousand citizens. While this was the subject of the debate today, we spoke solely in one indication of a negative demographic trend, which is a depopulation. But surely there is something that the government will have to take care of, and that is that the aging process is even more present in our country so that we can really become a very fast and oldest state. However, there he would agree with colleagues who have already apostrophe that the problem is that this is not the problem for the past 10 years. In the 1970s, the demographics of Croatia pointed to what is happening to us today. This says more in favour that demographic policy cannot be a problem of politics, not a single party's problem, but it must indeed be a problem for the whole country. Well, I don't think there's a disagreement about that either. I think there's a discrepancy over how to level certain projects. I will call as Mrs. Minister has been invited to the National Demographic Development Programme, which indeed had a number of quality measures in its programme, including the one we're talking about today. So it's not about any new measure, it's about the measure that was about eight years ago when this programme was also adopted in demographic recovery and it's nothing new that such programs exist, that such a programme exists. He was unanimously adopted as you know and exists in a number of other countries. What we should and should emphasize and what we are all aware of really think that no one is naive to believe that only this measure will have such a good effect that it will suddenly turn negative into a positive population effect. Here, for example, I'm going to quote Mr. Tomcic yesterday who said that if cigarettes and expensives he wouldn't stop smoking. So even such a measure will certainly not lead to the end of such a bad habit. However, if other measures are introduced with such a measure, then we can expect a positive result, which means that, with this measure, much more energy is needed, and creativity, good legislative decisions and proposals, clearly all with quality economic growth, social security to ultimately want, or ultimately to come to what we want, and these are positive demographic indicators. There have been many objections or questions here, even concerns about how to reach a third child when it is very difficult to reach others today. I personally believe that there is hope, and that is also the result of the expression that is Professor. Akrap with colleagues from the Faculty of Economics, the Institute of Social Activities "Ivo Pilar" conducted among women who decided not to give birth and have one or two children. So on the question whether, with positive state programmes to ensure quality social and economic status of birth, children, etc. yet decided to give birth to another child and the answer was almost 60% positive. Clearly, neither should either, because it is certainly our party's position, so neither my own, forget or interfere with the mind. Recommendations and the European Union. I would also like to call here on the 27th conference of European ministers on family problems held in Portorož three years ago, which are just talking about the need to bring business and family life into line, and that is certainly something that I believe this government will also accept in taking further measures when it comes to birth policy. In the end, I think what measures the government will need to take, I would really not repeat, and I think we agree on that in the largest number. I just want to say why I will personally support this proposal. So it is primarily about implementing a national programme of demographic development, so one decision made by the Croatian Parliament. Secondly, this law is not binding, so it leaves the possibility of free choice of use of rights, so it is not binding. Third... that there will be no problem in fund-raisering when it comes to the state budget. [[You don't understand.]] I truly believe that this is one in a series of measures that the government will propose. And finally let me also confirm my political credibility by fulfilling what we promised in the election campaign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1378	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative Prgomett. It is up to the honourable representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1379	Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Vice President of the Government. First of all, I hope that my opinion is as important as the opinion of other representatives and that it will also be respected in this House. The problem of birth is much greater than we are today, and if such a trend continues not in 30 years but much earlier, Croatia will lack labour, of course, provided there is no large population migration. This is precisely why it is surprising that instead of a series of measures or the dynamicization of national family policy today we are talking about one measure that will not produce results, which is an increase in the number, or an extension of maternity leave for mothers by a third, fourth, and second children, respectively, for twins. This is because historical indicators therefore say that this measure does not produce long-term results. We obviously can't influence the birth of twins by law. From the explanation, and they're fascinatingly short and they only talk about money, they're not talking about the ultimate effect at all. Therefore, the question is raised which is the objective of these amendments because these objectives are not spoken of at all in the light of these laws. It would be good if we had all the relevant indicators and even a demographic study of the Republic of Croatia from which we might be able to see a lot. After the state's creation, my opinion is that this may be the most important national issue we face. The problem is much more complex than the length of the maternity leave for the mother. I also suggest to the government that the termological decree that maternity leave lasts 6+6, and that all of this, and this measure is also called parental leave, so to make a distinction between maternity leave and parental leave. What bothers me very much is that these amendments absolutely don't mention fathers, so it's mostly about rights, about mother rights, not the rights of partners, so fathers. What's our goal? What do we need or might be our goal? Our goal could be to increase the population in one census period, namely to have 600 thousand newborns, so an average of 60,000 a year. However, it should be said that the natural decline did not occur or did not begin in 2000 or 2001 but that the natural decline in the Republic of Croatia began in 1990, that it was such a natural decline, that it was such a trend until 96, and that only in 96 and 97 we have a baby boom as well as everywhere after the war, and that after 97 again in Croatia we have a natural decline. Statistical indicators in particular of the 2001 census indicate that the problem in Croatia is not a third child, the problem in Croatia is a second child. The most powerful policy measure will be an incentive for the family to decide on another child. Which would be a reason for the family, so not the mother, but the family to decide on another child. One study was conducted on 1220 subjects and was conducted by Ms. Kosor's adviser, Professor. Angelko Akrap, who spoke to women between the ages of 20 and 35 with one or more children, and the question was whether they would decide on the following, so on the second, third, fourth. Which are the reasons why they wouldn't. The first reason is 80% of my medical condition doesn't allow it, 78% I'm too concerned about the future of children, 76% I have children as much as I want, 63% my partner opposes it, 55% I want to keep the current standard of living, 54% I live alone, and I don't have a permanent partner, 52% partner and I'm too old, etc. etc. So no highly ranked motive as an obstacle to this is the length of maternity leave. I come from Koprivnica and we've done a demographic study in Koprivnica, and she's shown something that's terribly worrying. In 97, 420 children were born in Koprivnica. In 2002 285, 277 children were born. ... For two years, the number of children born was 91s and 97s. [[You don't understand.]] All other years, there is a decline in childbearing trends in Koprivnica. When we talk about it then we should keep in mind something called a fertile contingent in Croatia and when we compare it, so when we compare the current fertile contingent from 20 to 35, then there are 443 thousand 234 women in that contingent, and in the fertile contingent before this, so the contingent that was before this was 490 thousand 957 women. Which means we're already missing 47 thousand 723 women in our contingent. So, the fertile contingent by 50,000 women is smaller in the current period than it was in the pre- this association period. The key question, therefore, is how to increase the birth rate or how to actually maintain the current number of inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia in the future, regardless of whether it relates to a year, two, fifty or three hundred years, as the UN study says. I'll tell you what we did, therefore, based on a demographic study in Koprivnica, and whether it would produce results. We have free parent courses to prepare for pregnancy. Our hospital is a baby friendly hospital in Koprivnica. Perinatal mortality in Koprivnica is well below the average of the Republic of Croatia. When children are born, almost 900 children attend kindergartens. We have 3 kindergartens of what we are, in Koprivnica SDP is in power as well as in Zagreb, right? In the last five years built two kindergartens, or one built the city, one was a private initiative, but entered the city financing system. Nearly three-fifths of the population that is affected and can go to kindergarten, can go to kindergarten and have no child, or parents whose child should want or should go to kindergarten, and that is what she wants, without being able to go. Those who don't go have, they solve it in a different way. In the last two years, we have invested a great deal in adapting and equipping basic education precisely because of the decentralisation of funds for local self-government units. We plan to build a new high school building. In the last year, we invested 12 million kunas in building a school for higher education buildings. With the development of entrepreneurship, we secured the opening of over 2,000 new jobs, and in a month 19 new craftsmen used the opportunity to use the credit line with 2%, of which 15 women. We invest significantly in playgrounds, support associations of citizens who care about children. Unfortunately, all that doesn't produce results. So from 420 we fell to 277. The fall has been stopped because we've obviously reached some lower limit and is still slightly stagnating at this point. So the question is, what do we do? Not only us in Koprivnica, but obviously throughout Croatia. The mosaic should be really big and rich, but I'm afraid this first rock doesn't fall into our shoe. Because first we propose a measure, and then we form advice. It seems to me that it would be much wiser to first form advice, to study national family policy, to dynamic all measures, to complement them with those we think might further improve the current situation, because the problem is indeed huge. The problem is big, and I don't think we're all, except rhetorically, we've yet to face the size of this problem from afar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1380	I'd like to thank counsel Mršić. The replica was reported by the esteemed representative Matoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1381	Mr. Vice President, in the presentation of fellow MPs, except that we could hear the advertising of the SDP headship in Koprivnica, we could also hear that the historical results do not show that this measure gives really positive results. I think that the MP was even contradictory because he mentioned the year 1997 which was the year after this measure was introduced. So, out of that, that's how speculation could be speculated. So let me speculate the following way. Exactly the measures that have been brought... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1382	It's a replica, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1383	Just now, the former government has introduced certain measures that were not even a little popular. They were in fact the abolition of certain rights of measures and let me say that perhaps, and I believe that I am not far from the truth, led to the fact that the demographic image in Croatia in the last year was the weakest one we've heard since the ages, from a thousand 700 and some. So let us also think this way because just by reducing rights, reducing fees, abolishing student fees, etc., we came to the situation that last year was the worst, if we talk about a demographic picture in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1384	Thank you. Replica reply, Honorable representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1385	Well first of all, fellow, give them a reading of the historical results. So I ask the Deputy Prime Minister to make available the number of children available from 97 to 2001 when this measure is lifted and look at the trend. Of course last year was the worst because it was, unfortunately, such a trend and I was talking about a catastrophic situation. And as for Koprivnica, I forgot to say, we have a box of goodness spoken of by fellow Letica. We give every parent, or family who gives birth, who has a new child, a child is born, we give thousands of kunas so that they can buy basic needs for children... The chief directs a warm card to her parents or a single mother for having a child. [[no switch]] So we're doing it to improve the birth rate. I would be glad to see that in cities where HDZ is in power, all these measures are in place so that we can see if it's because of the government or something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1386	Thank you. You don't have the right to correct an incorrect quote in response to your reply. It is up to the distinguished representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1387	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity Mrs Jadranka Kosor and my predecessors have presented indicators of demographic imagery in Croatia, and as these data worry but also warn some of them I will repeat. In the beginning, I would just like to say that the lowest birth rate that ensures the simple reproduction of the population has changed 14 times, and Croatia has had that rate for the last time in 1984. Until the beginning of 1980, the number of births was mostly increased, and the largest number was recorded in 1979 when the number was 69 thousand and 229. By 1990, natural growth is low but still positive and followed by a natural decline that continues to date. So in 2002, and that's the last year for which there's official data number of births is 40 thousand 094. And if we compare this previous year that I brought up and this one now, then that's a difference of 29 thousand 135 or 42% less, and that's really a worrying figure. So we can conclude that Croatia has been demographically dying since the early 1990s. I would also like to say that throughout this period the mortality rate is quite stable and is moving between 10 and 12 prominences. According to the United Nations projection, Croatia will have 4 million and 275,000 inhabitants in 2015, which is less for about a city the size of Rijeka. Or in 2025, and that is not so far away from 4 million and 88 thousand, which is approximately for cities the size of Rijeka, Osijek, and Zadar. And about half of this century, the number of inhabitants could fall to 3 and a half million as many as Croatia had in 1920. And the share of those over 65 would grow to 30%, now that data is 15.7. And a few more data according to individual surveys, a third of Croats will not be married for up to 50 years, and 40% of married women do not want to be born anymore. Then, the number of registered abortions in 2002 was 12,000 and the number of real ones is considered to be far and wide. Each Croatian has an average of 1.2 children, while the average for the European Union is 1.4, for Great Britain 1.7, for Hungary 1.3. And I'd just like to point out that three and more children provide a natural population growth. Although in the world today, such natural movements are not rare, the more such natural movements are recorded by a large part of the developed countries of the world, but this cannot comfort us because we are a small nation of numbers and we cannot afford extinction. Which would be the cause of this. The most significant influence on the reduction of birth rate is the social, economic and socio-psychological factors, and then the higher the absorption of women. The modern way of life in which people generally opt for fewer children, a significant impact on the reduction of birth in Croatia has had a long-standing eviction of the population, mainly of the working population and of the fertilised age, and there is growth... What could we do? Population policy and policy towards the population, and it is difficult to isolate from the overall development policy. In the implementation of population policy, the interests of individuals and families are intertwined with the interests of society and state. Should any population policy primarily seek to create such conditions that motivate parents to make a voluntary decision on the number of children. Modern population policy in democratic states is based on the principle of parental right to decide freely on the number of children and the distance between births. In most countries, a population policy is implemented, which involves a system of indirect measures in the context of specific policies of housing, tax, credit and employment. Sweden, for example, represents a Scandinavian model aimed at family well-being, especially the welfare of children and mothers. An interesting campaign, Open France Children, has started in France since 1985, creating a friendly and pleasant atmosphere for children. In Croatia, we could say the emphasis should be placed on creating an atmosphere and environment for the implementation of population policy, strengthening economic, social and political preconditions, and as far as possible through better health and revitalisation of the nation. Starting first from the foundation, which is family, and the immigration variant of population policy, especially the return of our emigrants. And in the end, I would only say that a family with three and more children allows for a positive demographic shift. The model we propose has, for example, France, where maternity leave is possible to use up to 3 years of a child's life in various forms and durations and benefits are paid for the second and the next child. This certainly is not the only measure proposed by the government, but it is an important first step and an important first step that can be achieved in view of the budget, and should therefore be supported. And since we're discussing this bill in the first session. It is also a clear message to the Croatian public that the family and rejuvenation of the nation is at the heart of our interests and our actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1388	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague, colleague Matešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1389	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with most of the presentations of my colleague, but I am taking the opportunity to really point out that local self-government can also encourage the most intelligent policy with my own measures, so I also use the opportunity as my colleague from Koprivnica used to commend his SDP headship, to commend the HDZ headship in the city of Dubrovnik, which for every newborn child gives a thousand kunas to the family where the child came in. So in this sense, certainly, HDZ's heads are very concerned not only at this state level but also at the local level, and I am sure that this debate today will also encourage them to treat what we are discussing in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1390	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Željka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1391	It seems to me that a fellow representative has injured Article 209. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1392	It did not injure Article 209. It's the Rules of Procedure because it's a replica. He can express his views and opinions in the replica regarding previous exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1393	On basic exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1395	And the basic exposure didn't have anything to do with...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1396	There's talk of a state of the art policy. He could have talked about, thank you very much. It's time for my dear colleague Perman to have his word. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1397	Mr. Vice President, Madam Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, since I speak for the first time in this assembly, I will also take advantage of the opportunity to welcome all the Croatian public. The essence of these 3 laws is to change the duration of maternity leave with the aim of repairing the demographic picture of Croatia. I ask the question is these changes sufficiently attractive and far-reaching for the safety of the family's existence to make them decide on a larger number of children because of these changes? I don't think so, and I'm going to give you some reasons why I don't think so. Children’s supplies are expensive and people find it harder to decide for more children because their majority requires even higher household costs which the maternity benefits do not cover, especially after the expiry of maternity leave. In addition to children’s supplies, there are overhead costs such as heating, water, electricity, and so on, and later schooling costs. Secondly, it is often a condition for getting employment so that the future worker does not remain pregnant. Thirdly, for those employees with higher incomes, which means mainly in more responsible jobs, or with higher education, maternity benefits do not replace incomes, so that is the only reason why they will certainly not decide on a larger number of children. It's the other way around. Mothers with lower incomes and lower education rates increased costs due to more family members will not attract more children because the home budget gaps would most often be complemented by supplemental work on black, leading to inadequate and inadequate care for their child or their children. You can imagine the possible consequences yourself. Speaking of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity leave of mothers who carry out the independent activity and unemployed mothers, I note that it actually turns the mother into a birthing machine, to encourage, to encourage the birth of a profession or source of income, especially in families of a poorer layer of citizens. There is also violence in the family, forcing birth even under very poor housing and hygiene conditions. The consequences of a large number of children in inadequate housing and financial conditions, and so far we have occasionally met in presses where a jury account is given to help families because they live in two, three rooms, have seven, eight children and receive two, three thousand kunas. Do we want these phenomena massively? I don't think I have to say the answer. Mothers who carry out their own activities will find it harder to decide on a number of children if this causes interruption or reduction of the work they do because it is difficult to re-enter the market, and as a general rule, the extension of maternity leave for them will not be an incentive measure. On the other hand, the mother attends regular schooling. I wonder how many mothers in regular schooling who want to finish and start schooling will decide on one child except for the one that was born by accident, let alone three or more children? An unemployed mother, a disabled pensioner, usually needs the help of a third party herself because of her professional incompetence, and when she decides on a number of children, is it possible to give care and attention to them? As we have already heard in the debate, I believe that before giving any reliefs and incentives to a third and any further child should consider and correct the legal provisions that will encourage mothers and families to reach the third child at all or encourage the first and second child. And to conclude, all of this leads to the fact that extending the right to a larger number of users as well as extending maternity leave will ultimately not lead to the desired effect, i.e. a positive demographic picture of Croatia, and other more extensive measures should be taken with a time-consuming effect on the family, in order for the growth of the population in the Republic of Croatia to permanently get a positive... Thank you very much. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1398	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote, Zdenka Babić Petričević. Here's your esteemed co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1399	Mr. Vice President, I'm talking to a colleague who said, maybe not quite so literally, but I'll try to quote. It is not true that this bill proposes that a woman become a birthing machine. But it allows her to become a rich mother, a mother with one child is rich, with two and three children is even richer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1400	As a matter of fact, you've made your point, you haven't corrected the incorrect assumption. We're moving on to replicas. Dear Mrs. Bernardic has a replica of the exhibit. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1401	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. As a wife and mother of three, I consider motherhood a gift from God. And I never accept the the thesis that motherhood and maternity leave of three years separates a woman from work. The right and the child's need to be highlighted here, I stress the child, for as long as the mother can be present. I stress that the most important period for the psychophysical development of a child is the mother's presence by the age of three. So if the government can provide funds in the budget in this first, and this first measure of problems, intelligence policies can help children and mothers. Let's welcome every mother's decision to take advantage of that possibility. In Dalmatia, we say, "Not in the Schools everything," and the children are our greatest treasure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1402	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mrs. Agent Perman. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1403	I would just like to point out that in my debate when I mentioned a childbearing machine, I didn't think that a woman was turning this law into a childbearing machine, but that's how she treats herself in a particular way in the family, especially in the families of a poorer social class. and she instead of income from work was actually forced often to have her source of income be this birth benefit and thus she became a childbearing machine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1404	Thank you, dear colleague Perman. Replica, colleague Antunovic has. Here's your esteemed co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1405	Mr. Vice President, I fully and with great enthusiasm, actually support the debate of my colleague, Bisserka Perman, and more than that. I think it's actually a terrible thought for every single person in Croatia who turns a woman into a machine. I think it's humiliating, I think that women's values and qualities, except through motherhood, should be evaluated through many other contributions that women today make to this country's development. I also more than Mrs. Biserka Perman thinks that the past Croatian government has made an excellent step towards increasing the number of children in Croatia by expanding the rights for 100,000 children, a greater number of children to use, for example, a child's allowance, which has enabled the expansion of many other rights that directly or indirectly affect positive optimal trends. It is only a pity that the previous Croatian government and previous Parliament could not increase due to the excessive debts they inherited, but simply had to approach certain reductions in the amount of different fees each for themselves to individual families or in certain segments can contribute to improving innovative trends.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1406	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. We're continuing the debate. A respected colleague, Dorotea Pesic Bukovac, is next. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1407	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Vice President of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues. We in the IDS have said that we will support this proposal, although we consider these measures, let's just say the micro steps that lead us to what we want to achieve in these laws. Croatia's fall in birth benefits and length of maternity leave is not only related to the problem. It would be bad and hard to believe that parents would choose to have children for these reasons. In my opinion, maternity benefits are only one of the problems related to parenting, especially the mother. In itself, maternity benefits stimulate social welfare to create a new social society. And we don't stimulate the desirable parenting of employees and educated women who are being punished by maternity compensation. A child should be a reward, not a punishment. Especially for my mother. The bigger a woman is, the bigger her problem and the inability to reconcile parenting and profession for her is very unfavourable. Here we should look on one side of the mother and her economic status right to choose, the right to social life and economic independence, and all together independent of the child. Parents should certainly have such conditions, since being a parent is a great responsibility both to themselves and to the child, and also to society as a whole. The question is how to be a responsible parent if he doesn't know if he's going to have a job, whether he's going to have a chance to get to the apartment, and what to do after 3 years of maternity leave if he's going to have income to support his child. On the other hand, it is necessary to propose and make a friendly relationship with the child we want and which in society is necessary not to die out. In the part of amending the health insurance law, it would also be good to ensure that good, free healthcare and the possibility of feeding infants are guaranteed, which neither of them is regulated by the existing law. Free food for up to 1 year of a child's life is provided only for the social. And the vaccination is past mandatory must be paid for. Yesterday, a debate on VAT cuts is under way in this House. I am therefore amazed by the government's concern for the most intelligent policy and that tax policy, on the other hand, does not distinguish the primary needs of luxury from children's needs. The most basic things needed at the birth of a child cross the figure of 10 thousand kuna. Vials, sterilisers, heaters, bed, diapers, etc. In any event, it is necessary to propose the release from VAT of children's food, supplies and all other aids. It seems to me that in the end there are no systemic and systemic solutions, everything is quite superficial and flat-rate. I'll be a little rough, so let's just say, let's have the kids and then we'll see what we can do with them later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1408	Thank you very much, colleague Bukovac. It's time for my dear colleague Zgrebec. Here you go, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1409	Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister. There, we're discussing one thing, it would be a minimal amendment to the Labour Act. And by following laws on which we have united the debate, which refers to the use of maternity leave until the age of 3 of the child's life. You, Madam Vice-President, cited in your first opening statement the example of Sweden, saying that the measures implemented in that country to encourage, for, population policies, have produced excellent results. But you only said half the truth. In fact, Sweden has introduced the practice of so-called positive discrimination forcing both parents, therefore, and father to use maternity leave for a minimum period of one month. If he does not, the total period of maternity leave is reduced by that time that father does not use. It might be good for us, too, to introduce in this amendment the law until the second reading, that in Article 1 paragraph 4 where twins, third and next children are said to be able to benefit from maternity leave, we say that parents can benefit from maternity leave. We will until the second reading try to intervene in these changes and amendments and we would be pleased if you, until the second reading, would suggest these changes in a slightly different way. Given that we have a very bad assessment of the situation in our first reading and some approximation of the necessary resources, it would be good for us to give a second reading and review of the effects of the introduction of this measure which was introduced 7 years ago, it seems to me, what it was then, how much woman was using this possibility because we are also saying that we are employed women can benefit from it, or what effects it was when this possibility was lifted. Of course, it is said that a working woman can or should not, she can decide whether to use this right or not. And then the question can be asked, and why do you say it's not good that such a change is done because it's the right of a woman whether she's going to use it or not? However, there are far more questions to ask, and when you look at it from this economic point of view and an employer's or company owner's reaction that women should be hired to or potentially appear as labour force, then the question arises, what does it mean, that a woman who has been employed for 3 years from the world of work is dismissed? With any level of work, in particular, it will not be decided to use this right of women who are on more complicated jobs, today's technology is so advanced that the absence and a year of workplaces can mean difficult reintegration into the world at that time and into a dotted workplace. And what it represents when you've been gone for three years. On the other hand, when we talk about employers agreeing with a certain measure, I'm not going to say that this is the only government that does that, all governments when they say that, then we actually only give opinions to employers' associations. They rarely, since I belonged to this association myself, rarely when it is seriously debated on a specific legislative proposal in the companies themselves, and it tends to be that at some level the employers' association discusses it, and then they say that is the attitude of all employers. This does not mean, therefore, if you have received a positive opinion from the employers’ association that all employers will adhere to it. In fact, in 96, we adopted a strategy for demographic development, and a chapter is dedicated to measures that promote popular policy. If today we analyse this to a good extent, this measure is done at the level that the Croatian state could allocate the funds. Today should be this time when we are preparing the 2004 budget to see how much resources can be allocated to increase these fees. It's also about maternity benefits and clothing extras. At this shoe level we have today. But when I talk about it, then these fees are limited by the age of a child only. The question arises as to what will the family do when these measures are no longer taken. In fact, parents must take care of their children until the time of their employment. And today, indeed, in the 21st century, children must receive adequate education in order to continue their own lives. This means that we would have to expand or take measures to ensure that the perspective of young people is ensured, so that as soon as possible, they can enter into a marriage immediately after school, which means they have to have a job with an adequate salary, so that they can get to the apartment and so on. And then they'll decide to give birth to the first child before. Not just before then, and at a younger age, there is then a possibility that they will have a second and run child. Already here, colleagues and colleagues said that today we have an average of 1.3 children per woman. This means that we still have to make sure that the first child is given to the family as soon as possible. And for a third child, so few families decide. Therefore, I should say that we should look for other options if we want to improve the material position of the family that it has more children. It would certainly be good to examine the possibility that yesterday, in many examples, we have shown that even in the tax policy system, more attention is paid to these very categories of citizens, or these categories of families. It would also be good to consider the proposal we made from the SDP club to introduce differentiated rates or zero rates for certain categories of goods and services. And in particular, here should be considered, and I ask you to be one of the government's speakers that for this category of goods therefore children's shoes, clothes, children's food, the rate of value added is lifted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1410	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, one piece of information. We have been reported from the technical service that this smell of smoke in the hall is of external origin and that it pulled the air conditioning and burned it in the hall. So you know what this is about. We're continuing the debate. It's time for a respected colleague, Antunovic. Here's your co-workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1411	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Let me begin my discussion on the subject of an extension of maternity leave for one of the parent categories, or mother, or family. Something I don't think will cause any controversy in this House. Negative demographic trends, negative indicators of population policy in Croatia, although not specific to Croatia alone, are very confusing and I think beaver about this can express one common position and consensus. That this is a question on which the Croatian Government is also a Croatian Parliament but also many other segments of society in Croatia need to take seriously and propose measures that will be concrete after the positive results are given, and if these results do not show that we are changing, adapting and using only what really changes these negative trends. Minimum if possible but to keep the shifts in a positive direction. In order for us to act this way, I think that first of all we who act in the field of politics must show full responsibility. That we have to ignore some of our interests of interest first and foremost to like our voters. And begin to make serious and long-term proposals, plan and be consistent with what we agree on. That is why I am extremely proud of all the previous assembly of the Parliament, which in this direction made a very good contribution. Today we have several national policies, which globally regulate this area, and they open up space to past current and future governments, that, in accordance with the overall circumstances and changes that are constantly happening in society, they bring and adapt these measures to be effective. Another important condition that needs to be met in order to give this complex area some positive steps. In fact, demographic positive demographic policy can only be conducted in the long term, and only systematically. This cannot be a set of individual measures, but a set of interrelated measures not only in the field of family or social policy, but also in health policy, economic policy, development policy, and all policies, because we will be able to discuss qualitative steps. For this reason, perhaps today in these discussions, we have certainly been able to hear very many repeated remarks in the sense that we are discussing and detaching one measure this time. About the extent that we can't say that it hurts, we can't say that it will have catastrophic negative consequences, but unfortunately we can't say what I'm personally sorry for, or that this measure will provide any recognizable or mentioned demographic step. I noticed in the debates reading the papers on the board that some of you think that this is not so much a demographic measure a population measure, but d is more of a social measure. Well, I don't know who thinks that, but with that opinion right now, I couldn't agree more. It may be a social measure, but it will not be a socially fair measure, and then unfortunately again, despite good intentions, it will move into the sphere of social demagogy. Which social category of the family will be able to use this measure, which is also not so dangerous. Those families who are better material status, namely if the father of a family who works has a high salary then his wife will also be able to afford to give up their salaries or pay better and stay with her children at home for three years. Which is definitely positive and good. But in today's conditions in Croatia, it's not always a good time. So what we're trying to do is maybe through social state compensation to those who are harder with children, maybe this measure won't help them. That's why I'm actually sorry, and there's one technical remark about this material that we've got, I don't think there are enough indicators for all those who are very precise and pedanticly following this area from some other sources on which to draw the right conclusions. For example, I'm missing an indicator of how much of an example. families that last year -- it's always good to have a last year for example -- how many families that could use two-year maternity leave, they're twins, triplets, fours, etc. how much of it was born of such families that could use it as much as they really use it. Then we could estimate whether those who do so in perspective really need it or want it, or whether we really want it, to all of us, to all of them, and even to all Croatian citizens, we sell something called "the shale of lies". True, a woman may decide not to use this right in accordance with the proposal of this law. But do we have the responsibility to openly tell women what its consequences are, what are the benefits or damages if she decides to use that right? I think we have a duty to tell women that if she decides to use that right her position on the labour market is further complicated and difficult. And so existing discrimination against women on the labour market often because they are the only ones who can give birth to a child, the only one who can use maternity leave, not parental leave but maternity leave. Do we have to tell them that employers will not have compassion even if the law requires that no pregnant woman should be sent home? Let's not fool ourselves or anyone in this country. Let us face the fact that regardless of the support of employers, employers are the employers of those who are the most difficult to endanger and discriminate most and most often violate the legal rights of mothers, the rights of women, the rights of parents when it comes to their child care, their right to care, raise and raise their children. And because of that, I think we all need less demagogy, and we need more serious and responsible work. I think it's a much better way to go with a system of measures, a harmonised system of measures because it doesn't matter when one, it doesn't matter when a measure occurs because sometimes the best measure if not followed by some other measures can fall into the water and be a failure. That is why I expect this proposal to be more complete by the second reading, and better quality, and I expect in the end that it will be accompanied by what is most important to all - the increase in maternity benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1412	Thank you, dear colleague Antunović. Correction of the incorrect quote by counterpart Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1413	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. counterpart Antunovic made the wrong claim that only those with higher material incomes in the family will be able to use this measure because there are a large number of women who have paid below the level of compensation they will receive and by what it is today, and when it increases, the circle increases. Also, when the price of kindergartens that must be paid for those older children is added, the cycle is increased, so their income will be through a fee directly higher than it would otherwise be if they did not use this measure, and besides unemployed students, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1414	Thank you. Proposer's word, Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go. What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't know what you'd like. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's just you can on behalf of the club yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1415	Yes, then I am asking you on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club to translate the term "share lie". I haven't heard that in my life, and I don't know what it means. So in order for me to understand the meaning at all, I'm asking them to translate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1416	But then you must take that from Anic or Klajic's dictionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1417	That's not there.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1418	The word has been made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1419	Thank you very much, sir. Mr. Vice President, I'm afraid this microphone is not working. Mr. Vice President, it works, the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here, I would like to say one more thing on behalf of the promoter since Ms. Antunovic made some claims that the Government has an answer to, so I would like to give these answers right now. First of all, on behalf of the Government, I would like to reject the claim that this measure is not so dangerous, I quote, therefore, it cannot be a measure, or a proposal for a law which restores one right, the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave for twins mothers, third and every subsequent child, is dangerous or less dangerous. I think it's understandable and therefore, I reject any possibility that this could be a dangerous measure because it's one measure that, once again, allows for the right choice and allows every family to create their own small demographic family policy based on these measures. Furthermore, there were doubts about it but not only in this presentation, but also before these measures of returning three-year leave will not produce results. We've been using the data we've got so far. I'll get you that information. In 94, the number of children born in Croatia was 9,000 448. In 97, therefore, one year after the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave, the number of third-born children was 12 thousand 732, so you can see significant growth, and in 2002 the number of third-born children, so after that possibility was abolished, was slightly greater than 7 thousand. Therefore, these are indicators on which this government has proposed, among other things, this measure, so I repeat once again, the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave in no way do we want to enter into the politics of each family that, in what way, it will benefit from maternity leave. Each family can, of course, decide according to its own options according to the arrangement within the family. Women can use six months or less, so according to how the family decides. As for the finding that we are selling to Croatian citizens something called "harena lie", I also reject it. I don't know what that would be. So we offer one step, first step, and this is this measure of using three-year maternity leave. The next measure will be to increase maternity benefits in the amount of therefore, to restore the range for working mothers, to raise the level for unemployed mothers. That's two steps. We're going to talk about third parties, and I'm just the Deputy Prime Minister at the Economic and Social Council's session to discuss women on the labour market and that this session is open to the public, but also to everyone else who is interested, and of course I'm thinking about parliamentary representatives first and foremost. It is likely that this proposal will be accepted and that everyone will then be able to express their views on women, or on the position of women in the labour market today. And I agree that this position is unacceptable. And as for the finding that we need less demagogy and more real work, surely this can't be classified in the area of demagogy, because this is precisely what we've been asked by families who have affected the abolition of the three-year maternity leave of 11 thousand mothers who have had to return to work after the termination, and once again I repeat 86% of those surveyed in Croatia is for this measure, so for a three-year maternity leave that can be, but it doesn't have to be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1420	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote by Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1421	So here's what I'm going to do for the fourth time. I'm thinking today this 97th and 94th. Give us colleagues Kosor's data from 94 to 2001 without skipping a year. I'm telling you that the number of such born children was... I'm correcting the wrong assumption, yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In 94, there were more third-born children than in 2000 when the measure was in force. That's one thing. And secondly, the 97th year was when he was a baby boom and otherwise there was a jump in the birth rate in Croatia, which is the result of the end of the war, not this measure that you're talking about. After 97. you constantly drop your birthright in Croatia including the third child, and please give us the data from year to year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1422	Thank you very much. It is now time to correct the incorrect allegations of fellow Matosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1423	Matušić is my last name.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1424	Matusic, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1425	I hope you remember him. I'm correcting an incorrect assumption that this measure is not dangerous. This measure is dangerous for the SDP because the Croatian public will see that there was no reason not to abolish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1426	This gives you political qualifications, not corrections to incorrect allegations. It's Joseph Leko's turn. Here you go, colleague Leko. It's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1427	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I don't really feel able to talk about the very complex problem of the intelligence policy. In the last meeting of a respected and well-known HDZ member, I asked him to explain to me the depth of the problem of population policy. Then your esteemed member told me like this, listen fellow, it's such a complex matter and I can't talk about it standing up for a short time. I ask you to come to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, so I will explain to you one two days about the problem of the most intelligent policy. That's why I'm going to talk about the bill's proposals the way I think it's going to produce the effects. So my opinion is that care for a child born doesn't begin at birth, nor ends at the age of three. So after three years of parenting, society and the state must take care of the child until its independence. The people say when he's born he has to rock, which means he's really worried. Therefore, I must honestly say that I can neither be against nor because this measure in my court has a very short range of its effects, and indeed these effects can be of good consequence, but they can only last three years. Let us assume that there is no comprehensive responsibility for a consistent and stable policy in Croatia for this measure to produce good effects. Suppose, first of all, that next year there will be a hundred thousand children born, second-born children and 30,000 children born in the family. What does this mean for the Croatian budget, Croatian society as a whole? Do we have enough kindergartens, schools, do we have in our budget an insurance fund? What does that mean in seven years for elementary schools, for kindergartens? What are these capacities? How many breeders do we have, how many students do we have, and what's that going to produce in 18 years? What are the effects in 18 years? There's no such thing as talking about it in this proposal. There's no mention of that in this proposal. That's why I really think, don't be angry, that this is offering the illusion of the state's concern about birth. After three years of worrying about your gentlemen's parents, you gave birth, you didn't work for three years, you took care of your children. I don't think it's allowed to offer an illusion to parents. It's not allowed. It is well known to all those who at least looked at the problem of the innovative population or what is already called politics, that the standard itself does not determine the birth rate. That's why France's most valid examples after World War II were raised immediately after the war, and then France raises its standard of living for its citizens, and the birth rate rises in the opposite proportion, so it falls. The same thing happened to Sweden. Sweden, all those who followed it, is indeed a distinctive example. The standard has grown enormously, and the birth rate of Swedish citizens has fallen. If only one measure didn't bring about the effects, we all know that highly undeveloped countries have a high birth rate. High birth rate and problem population. And countries that are richer, especially European, and almost all of them have a problem with the fall of birth, and all of these countries have a truly systematic policy, the most intelligent policy that they run long, systematic and consistent. They didn't get the results. That's why, and I said that I would speak my views of the scope of these laws, I must repeat. We must not fool the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that the state is taking care of their children, so their maternity leave for three years is not to work for the second and the next child, and after that we do not know what to do with these children. Once again, so please don't take my qualification to offer illusions, the state's concern for birthlessness as too strong, too sharp. I think the government's obligation to offer a systematic policy is, in my opinion, one of the easiest problems where we can reach consensus. It's not just a political question. It's really a national issue, it's really a national issue. But please, systematic, systematic policy. Then we can talk about whether this measure is good or not. Now, by my judgment, I repeat, it's just an illusion offering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1428	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1429	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Since 10 January 2001, Vesnik has listed this quote from one German newspaper. “In 165 years, the Turk will bury the last German.” The author of the newspaper also wonders whether Europe is threatening to change or change European civilization. The problem is not and only means only Croatian, and let me mention the figures of millions of kunas mentioned in their speeches by colleagues Cain and Pupovac, contradicting the numbers of millions of lives, viewing each life as absolute and invaluable. Croatia's demographic and demostrategic drama is rapidly approaching its tragic end, according to UN experts' predictions. According to the United Nations projection, in 2015 the Republic of Croatia will have 160 thousand inhabitants less than today, and in 2050, 3 million 587 thousand and return to 1920. Croatia has the smallest population increase in Europe in the period from 50th to 95th, according to some forecasts, and with the emigration of the current pace, the last Croat in Croatia will disappear in 200 years, so we will not be able to talk about the age structure of nursing homes. Population ageing is seen at an average age or average age, i.e. in the middle years of life at the time of the census. The ageing process in one country is thought to begin when the average age of the population is 30 years. We're 31 and a half years old in 1961, 91. 36,6, 2001. 39.3 years. When we divide the number of older than 60 years by the younger to 19 years we get an age index whose critical value is 40%. That index 61 is 34.3%, 81. 52.6%, 91. 66.7% and 90.7% in 2001. And that means that every 60-year-old comes from a young man. And in 53, the young were 36.8% versus 10.3%. And in 2001, young people believed or not 23.7% and aged 21.5%. The other side of the medal is a constant reduction in the number of live births, and the Republic of Croatia has not been renewed for 20 years by the population of Croatia. Imagine 1979 the number of live births was 69 thousand 229. In 1996, some of the colleagues identified as baby boom as having 53,000 811 live births. But speaking of 1997, I ask you to consider one fact when we deal with all these figures, which is that by 98, therefore, as of 31 December 97, the total number of births included Croatian citizens living abroad. This resulted in a slightly distorted picture of Croatia's natural movement, which was 7.9% for that year. Let's add to this information that in 2002 there were for the first time more than 10,000 dead than live births. In fact, 10 grand 475. Economic growth will be possible only if there is enough for those who will carry it out. With this negative growth for which we will make all decisions that we will seek to improve life in Croatia. Realising these bill proposals as a necessary and first and necessary step, and first reading and moving into the most innovative policy with facilitating the lives of families with more children and changing the system of values, I want the Minister to gather the highest quality professional potential in Croatia, which will create in a favourable environment a programme for achieving the short and long-term objectives of population policy with insurance and political and economic and social conditions, respecting both what his colleague Lesar was saying, all of our regional diversity and, of course, all the positive things that have been done so far. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to take on this issue a consensus of all political forces and vote on these drafts of the law and to reject the statements of the type forever, I quote: "The money for larger maternity benefits is not or will be," according to a statement from the government representative, which is transferred by Novi List in 6.12. I also contribute to this discussion based on quantitative data, data that are frightening and point to a major problem that the Cardinal and the archbishop, Mr Josip Bozanić, reminded of at the New Year's reception of the President of the State, warns: “The society that saves on children closes its future.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1430	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1431	Well, here, for the third time, I am correcting an incorrect quote regarding the European Union's study. So, on December 9th, the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs published a report to the world population by 2300, which said that it is expected to grow slowly in Croatia from the current 1.6 to 1.65 by 2005, and 1.85 to 2050, and in 2300 it would reach 2.06 children per woman. It's a study, the latest study of a specialized United Nations agency. And when you talk about United Nations studies, then tell me what you're talking about. I've got the freshest one, who speaks different data.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1432	Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1433	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Minister. I would briefly refer to this proposal package of three laws, I think that in previous discussions everything is said and very extensively. What is the basic problem in front of the Croatian state is this frightening information about the demographic picture of Croatia and every authority in Croatia is obliged to put this problem first, so this is our country's priority problem. And that's why I think it's resolutely that by proposing this package of amendments and supplementing the law, the first necessary step to fix what, in the short term, some of the mistakes that can be corrected that can stop these negative tendencies of our depopulation and, in the context of that national demographic renewal programme, we can't expect the overall results from this process, and this is just one of the measures, one of the first steps, and certainly cannot expect it from it. It's bound to all other measures and laws, but today we're only discussing those that are ahead of us. I would like to mention another fact mentioned by our minister, which is that this is not a social category, I would especially like to stress. We constantly think that working is just what those who have workbooks do, but working in a home, working with a family is the same work without which this country or any other country would not survive. We are actually trying this Law and that part of the work that was practically always hidden and unrecognized and even unrecognized in some way rewarding and just rewarding those who in this work make up the most quality work and that is child care. And that's why I think these bill proposals should be supported and hopefully that's just the first step in solving this scary demographic image of ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1434	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1435	Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Minister. Demography and demagogy, these are two different concepts that miraculously blend into one in this bill. Sounds good and it means a little. No Empirical, no scientific data, no solid arguments to repair this maternity leave extension from two to three years of demographics. As Mršić said in his debate, in 96 we had no measure, so we had positive demographic movements, in 97 when the measures were first received, this maternity leave at three years old, the positive movements from 96 continued. And in 2000, when measures were equally effective, the demographic image grew. So it's obvious that between these measures and the increase... The speaker's off. There's no causal connection. Whoever is using this right or who has used it so far, it is written in the explanation of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, so this is what the Proposer writes. According to the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, the number of maternity leave users until the second year of life, is now proposed to extend this to three years, for twins, threes, fours, or more children of the same age since 2003, there have been 454 cases, of which 441 cases of birth of twins and 13 cases of birth of three, four or more children of the same age. Why so little? It's about interest. It's about mother's interest. Is it their interest to get out of work? To receive only the first 6 months of full salary compensation and later the reduced amount, and the question arises as to what they will feed that third, fourth, fifth child or their interest is to return to the world of work and earn money. They need money, not this kind of measure, not this kind of right that sounds nice, but they don't really need it. Demographic policy is not easy to lead. Demographic policy cannot be guided by one or two measures. It's a big question that we can all encourage the birth of more children, probably by increasing standards, reducing unemployment, probably by making it easier to reach an apartment especially for young people, especially to the first apartment. Probably general security in the country, probably with one climate of social optimism. It should also prevent young people from leaving the country, especially educated. But Madam Minister, how can we prevent the departure of young, educated people in the country when we replace a doctor of science from the place of the Institute of the Family, and bring a nurse to her place? So what if young people, educated people make other things than looking for fate in another country where such things don't happen? How can we keep young people in the country when, as assistant minister and secretary of state, we place people who have been proven to have been stolen on the supply of the eschew? Hardly, I think the message you sent them is such that it's not a country where they have hope for a better future. Let's go back to the proposal. How it's going to be the behavior of employers after this measure. They can also be appealed, as Prime Minister Sanader urged traders to reduce the price, to appeal to employers to hire young women and not to pay attention to what they can become mothers, and not to pay attention to what they may use for three years of maternity leave. But will that appeal bear fruit and will we also solve this issue with appeal? So the employer, acting on the labour market, and the labour market is like any other market, it has its logic, the logic of the profit, it will avoid hiring a young woman and we will make it difficult to take these measures if we adopt them, we will make it difficult for every young woman to access or return to the world of work. And that measure that sounds so good, and so little means doing more damage than good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1436	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1437	Your Honor, Mr. President, in my previous debate on behalf of the Club, I announced that I would be in an individual debate, yes. [[/Intruder: The Adriatic girl answered.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1438	Dilem, the Deputy Prime Minister also called, and I gave you my word, so please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1439	No problem... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1440	... Mr. Vice President. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1441	You're extending my hearing for one minute right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1442	Normal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1443	How about a fresh start?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1445	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I answered, but I apologize. You didn't see, there was a misunderstanding. Since the MP spoke to me, that he called me, I think it's my duty to respond and answer his questions. So Mr. Trazic talks about demagogy and demographics. Mr. Representative, you probably didn't get to know enough. These measures are designed to support demographics. You called these analogies as you call the government for demagogy, and you called them demagogues. Also, these measures support GSV I have said several times already. According to this analogy, members of the GSV would turn out to be pure demagogues as you believe it is the Croatian government that proposes this. You're saying there are no arguments that the government actually justifys this proposal to return once acquired the right to the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave. Mr. Representative, where were the arguments of the last government when she abolished this right? I don't remember the detailed and precise arguments that would convince the MPs that it was necessary at the time to abolish that measure. Without arguments, that possibility was lifted and I repeat once again 11 thousand mothers had to return in 60 days, just 60 days to work. You're also saying there's no scientific research. So here I think that if there was ever talk of scientific research on this subject, on the subject of a catastrophic demographic picture and the fact that Croatia is a demographic wasteland, if ever there were, then there are them now and in public. You could have read it. You said this is the right that sounds nice, but it doesn't mean anything. Well, when it's the right that sounds nice, then why didn't the former government leave it? And you said it yourself doesn't mean anything, I don't see any reason why you didn't leave him. As we don't see in this government today, a reason to abolish, say, an extra for 25 thousand students. Special supplement in the child allowance system for the third and each subsequent child. We didn't see any valid arguments when those measures were lifted, and as far as the assistants you mentioned in my ministry were concerned, they were on duty for six days. The government replaced them, as you know, one on my request, the other I resigned. So I think that story is really relatively quick to complete and for, for no one, there was no harm. On one occasion, I apologized to all who in any way felt affected and, of course, uncomfortable. And as for your finding that this measure will do more harm to any young woman, I must say on behalf of the government that we absolutely disagree. I'm not going to repeat all the arguments that I've been making all day today, but we think that this measure can be used by any young family who decides on a third and every next child only. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1446	Dear colleague Lesar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1447	Thank you very much. In my morning performance on behalf of the Club, I announced that in an individual debate, I would only talk about one segment of the topic that was often spoken today in the context of the Natalie Policy, which is responsible parenting. I will be very careful, and I will try to make a maximum choice of words because I am aware that I am putting myself at risk of misunderstandings or accusations to bring this issue down to a particularly sensitive area and a particularly sensitive group of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but I have to talk about it because this problem in Međimurje is extremely present. I do not advocate that there are different legal regulations or different practices against minority communities, nor am I against the fact that all rights apply which are in the laws of all. But I must warn that there is a serious problem in Međimurje with members of the Roma National Community with which the birth rate is extremely high, but in the context of responsible parenting. 5.6 days ago, the media announced that a suit would be filed against the Republic of Croatia for the Human Rights Court in The Hague for the alleged segregation of children in schools. Although there is a powerful verdict by Croatian courts on this subject by individual senior officials in the work of the Croatian authorities and after the power of the verdict, they make statements on such alleged segregation and no one has responded and called for the power of judicial judgments. By 2000 or 2001, when the fee was for the third and every further child in 1600 kuna, members of the Roma community called it their right or the right of all “Croatian mother”. Which was the consequence, which we fear and quote the words of the president of the Roma, the Council of the National Minority of Roma in Međimurje and how the problem manifested itself. There was greenery in a way that the richer they lent to the poor, and as a loan to repay the debt, they took full powers to the mothers who had three or more children so that we recorded that one and the same greener had 30 and more powers and every month when the fee arrived at the post office he raised 30 fees on behalf of the debt. 1600 kuna times 30, you can figure out how many interest rates and vegetables there were. In person, two Roma women came to me begging me to force them to, to lift that fee because they can no longer endure the problems in the family caused by alcoholism. Secondly, there's been a situation where girls in their 12th and 13th years were giving birth to children, and I guess you all know and understand what the problem is. Until a year and a half ago, no child attended kindergarten, and thanks to the efforts of Međimurje County and the introduction of playgrounds and special kindergartens and in the town of Čakovec we managed to include only 100 children. Only every tenth child gets to the eighth grade of elementary school. I repeat, only every tenth. In the high school system at this point, there were 38 students from that community. Out of 7300 unemployed 1,000 Roma under 34. Although there is a right to health insurance on the burden of the state budget, a large number of parents do not result in free health insurance for children, so they become problems even in emergency interventions and emergency medical care, especially permanent health care for those children. And then two weeks ago, a serious problem that occurred in a part of the violence was ruled by an epidemic of tuberculosis. If we add up the fee of 1600 kuna and children's allowances from an average of 5.6 children, the average incomes were between 4 and 5 thousand kuna and unfortunately, I repeat, unfortunately, this also happened, and for a part of those families, children became a way of earning. Why am I talking about this right now? Because he would challenge and ask Mrs. Kosor, as well as the other resolution ministers for us to act with different mechanisms before the problem becomes bigger, not when he is scaling and not when he is transferred to other frames. and what I suggest, basic education, stronger sanctions, and the application of methods of forcing children to finish primary schools as a prerequisite for continuing education in high schools. I suggest that there is also an addition to the programme in the secondary school system, where they would stimulate their children to enroll in nursing schools, raisers, police officers, administrative lawyers and teachers, so for occupation and professions when they can stay and work in their and with their community as the greatest contribution of total socialization. and my third proposal. Control of the dedicated spending of funds that parents make out of the child's title. Whether it's a child's allowance, other fees or school benefits, because it's the only way we can get a situation where what the state gives for a child gets to the child. Whether it is done by rerouting the part of the funds towards institutions where parents should make payments or if part of those rights are established when the welfare centre does not purposely spend instead of in cash is given in nature or other services. And of course, except for these repressive measures, I suggest an urgent and sound education that will probably give the most benefit in combination with each other. The repression itself and the sanctions themselves will not yield any results. I'm aware that I've exposed myself to possibilities, reactions and attacks like this to a close and serious subject. But believe me, the problem in Međimurje and in preschool education and primary education is extremely present and this debate is to help try or cry out that measures are also being stepped up in terms of supervision and in terms of stimulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1448	Thank you. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1449	Dear Mr. President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to start by saying right away because we are talking about children, and sometimes in some debates there are a lot of politicism, I would like to say that children are neither born for politics, nor for government, nor for class, nor for nation, that they are born for love as someone said this morning, and that this may be the consequence of one of the last natural relationships between a man and a woman, which are once again the result of love. So, we give birth to ourselves, they're born to couples who love each other. It would be desirable in as many cases as possible if they were the parents of those children tomorrow. I say this at the principle level precisely because we avoid those tones where we bid and with this topic, and then with questions and children's problems for political purposes, where I can, I'm not accusing anyone. We're a lot in the past term and the one before, there's a lot of us who've been talking about things like this or that, today we're talking about women the most. We also talked about what kind of society we are, whether women are discriminated against or not. Indicators say, however, that the same expert prepares, that a female person in the same qualification structure waits longer than a male person two or three times longer at work, etc. Someone mentioned this morning to look at these benches, so we'll see how far there are more men than women. It's all kind of just a reflection of that state of society where we really have to look into our eyes really there's still a macho mentality, there's a kind of "hero culture" where the man "pater familias" etc. And yet a woman destined for cooking, giving birth, and there's a Zdenka you know as well as I do. There is such a mentality, therefore, and there is another mentality which, therefore, the mentality of what is higher in our puppyes stood, "the cook's less chorus that your lunch doesn't burn," so that you wouldn't forget that the triba spins with that welder in that liquid, etc. Cooking lunch and stuff. The fact that there is another mentality, a mentality that wants to equalize a woman who is equal in law, but in practice and life, in real life. And no one lives in laws, you know there are abstractions, abstract people, but you live like Ante Marin, Barica, Gretel, what I know, it doesn't matter. Live your own life. In this particular life, unlike "life in laws" there are great differences. And so there are these two concepts, where they will be equal partners or not be partners. I'm not saying this for anything, because I would appeal to you as a proposing that if you were already proposing this measure, that at least you would accept that this opportunity is given to one or another spouse, so that the family is viewed as a community of equal, equal people, it was about a man or a woman. I've got two kids, here's why I wouldn't take a three-year-old, let alone a woman, I think there's a society where it's possible. But as a chance, because let's not fix everything for the woman either, because there are a lot of questions here when it comes to the demographic structure of Croatia, forecasts for the future, etc. Then somehow like some guilt towards women, you're having a little birth, you're not giving birth enough, that's what some people were saying about the appeal, etc. Well, you can't put the posters on with the rodeo. So we need to create an environment in which it will be normal, because it will be as economically as you will and culturally tolerated as families have more children, and above all that families exist as communities of happy and satisfied people. I think that's why you should try. First of all, the normal thing to do is to have existing laws and that no one, whoever he was 20, 15 or 18 years old, can pay no child support, because nothing happens to him. And on the other hand, that we, on a high, declarative level, stand for some of the high principles, in which this accusation goes, is not born enough, etc. So, I can't blame children for what you're like, you haven't done your part. It's a question of all of us in society and I say, once again positioning family, family as communities of equal people. And I appeal to accept this initiative if it is already going with this legislative proposal to allow if this is an agreement between the spouses that a man can, therefore under the same conditions, take that maternity leave. There are those who say a man has a sea, a woman if he wants to. You know that in our songs there's a great character of mother, wife, etc., and there are many societies where it's so, where it's dangerous to curse someone's mother because you can lose your life. And at the same time, those societies with a high degree of Taliban consciousness where the same one who's going to kill someone because he acted so offended him, cursed his mother and at the same time without any moral and no idea what kind of home dilemmas introduces this internal Taliban regime in which this one will get trimms, legs in his head, etc., there's a dim and that sort of thing. So there's this one dichotomy, the discrepancy between our declarative, heroic, and I don't know what kind of declarative relationship to women and practice. According to this proposal, women are not guaranteed, i.e. they are guaranteed an adequate workplace when they return after 3 years of work. And you know today you can't guarantee that there's going to be a company from which she went to maternity. And it seems to me that we really need to deal with this question of what it means. And that's why I think it's wise that I can share that period or that I know how to divide it but that I can use each other. Well, I still wanted to say, there were kids and kids over 18, and I really have to say, and I have kids we're all somebody's kids, and when I'm 60, my mother's what to say, come on, God, 80, I'm gonna be a nice kid, but she's just getting a kid's allowance isn't right. For this reason, let us resolve scholarships after 18 years, do not have bearded children who receive a child’s allowance. And I think really one thing is children, the other is adults who already have, they can have and some have children of their own. That's it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1450	Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanc.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1451	Mr. President, I'm sorry, but it was really funny, so you found me, and I blew my laugh. I'm not laughing out of shame, here, let me, with very few remarks get involved in this debate because as much as we talked about today and talked about numbers, I'd very much like to know if at a time when we're here, I'd almost say more reasons against it than when it comes to something that is ultimately very positive for me I'm going to explain why. Did any woman give birth to a child and improve our demographic image, I suppose? And how many women and not only women, but also families in which these cases of law enforcement were expected of us to allow them to do so as soon as possible. So if we all swear and we are Democrats, democracy is our great role model, I don't know why we've put so much effort into resisting democratic rights even if one woman chooses. So the right to our own choice must not be denied to anyone, and that is where I see this government as the one that has chosen the best of me from several possible methods of its action. So she didn't wait undecided considering all the possible facts and groping in the place because sometimes when you don't have the power of abstraction you can't make a decision. So, in my opinion, this government has chosen a synchronic pathway of time-consuming small steps in concrete life what Mr Jurjevic said and at the same time creating a strategy for a comprehensive improvement of standards overall because this is the only condition that we have all agreed on together, means economic development so that the most innovative policy could be implemented in all segments that are not what we're talking about today. So because of that, I guess we're all aware that this is a law that, that these are laws, because there are several that refer to a particular group but within that group there are certain subgroups that will, of course, when they decide to consume this law more and some will not consume it at all and those women that, I come from such an area living in a rural part of Croatia who have never been employed, who will never be employed, who are not even going to be employed, which is what Dr. Bacic, through his self-secret field work in the field, in the house they do not show it through some statistical numbers their contribution to the construction of the Croatian state. So that part and that part of women who unfortunately have it has much less income in a regular working relationship than it is the maternity benefit they may receive thanks to different employer decisions. I must say that regardless of whether we want to admit it or not, this regulation does not lead us to some past time, it leads us to Europe. So if it is our job to get close to Europe, then our job is to train our wife, or our family, to come from 1.2 to 1.4 women per child. So that's our job. This regulation is a small step towards those who are more advanced than we are to the last. And when it happens in Croatia then these women who decide what to do with their own body, I have to say that given my time that... One minute I let go of my concentration, and I heard some words about the use of the female body, and then I thought it was some kind of law on pornography. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I have to say that I am happy to have a woman, and now I can't complain that I'm a male chauvinist because I'm going to talk as a woman about a woman's body that can be used for different purposes and in different ways that I especially appreciate a woman who decides to use her body, bring a child into the world because I can tell you something. By reading everything I could, which came under my hand, I didn't see that until today, no matter how hard I tried to get into human and divine laws, I managed to find another medium besides bringing a man into the world is a woman's body, there's no other way. Although I also read some possible vision of a scientist, I don't know if it's a science fiction or if it's really possible that he said it's in vitro fertilization, so it can be implanted into some part of the male body that could replace uterus. We can talk about it when we're out of the pay phone. So, I think that a woman is like a mother, a woman as part of a family, and I don't know why people laughed when they talked about love, so I don't have to mention love either, but then, a woman who chooses to have at least a number of children in friendship and, by the way, end up a university doctoring, by the way, working backwards, I think she's a very free person, that she's a modern person, and that she's more equal than a fellow male because emancipation is living and not talking, so, fellows dearly, we can almost do anything like men, of course we respect that God's difference and we're biological that we can't quite lift a burden like them, but we can and more, so we can have a child. Now, in that choice I see our advantage and to the extent that the government sees help to those families who want it. And another thing to be at home for three years doesn't mean to waste time, meaning to enjoy the heat when children are at the care of their mothers in socializing with them, and at a time when you can deprive yourself of being able to doctor you can do scientific work at the time of the Internet at a time that any other satellite connections you can be in contact with the whole world, and you don't just have to cook. There's something else you can do. So, I expect from our Deputy Prime Minister's Madam Minister, I expect our government to have new and new proposals on the table in the coming time, and for the other groups of young women, so I hope that we will all decide together. I even think this measure will stimulate employment. Because those women who aren't strictly tied to certain jobs where continuity can't be lost I know there are such. So where some work on tape that woman who's been on maternity leave for three years at some factory on some simplest form of operation is going to be replaced by another. So we're going to have a chance for another unemployed woman to get into that job, and that's how we're going to expand that part of the movement in our society. And what Mr. Jurjevic said and I'm going back to it, in the materialistic world to have is the only criterion, and then it's passed on to the children. But fortunately the children are the gift of God's children are the life of this circle which is the life which are children which is the gift of God is shut down. And in that part of every child that comes in, every child that's helped, and with these numbers that we've heard that are so catastrophic, if one woman when this man comes into effect, it would be more than nothing, it would be 100% of nothing. So every little shift is welcome. And then when the kid goes away, he's gonna go big. And I'd have a lot more to say time is late, I know there's more colleagues who want it. I will end up very briefly paraphrasing Matosha, while the hearts will also be Crocia, and while love is in any form will be not to object to me, the narrowness of the nation, the population.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1452	We have two replicas. And one correction. We have a correction to the incorrect quote, respected colleague Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1453	Dear Mr. President, the fact that I am a wife and mother of three gives me the right to engage in this subject and to point out that my colleague obviously misunderstood us. This is a correction. We are not to abolish women's right to choose whether they will benefit from maternity leave or not, but we are in order for such an opportunity to have fathers. As far as I know, and as far as I can remember, the birth of children is gone without men we are equal in everything and in that. Therefore, let us not deny them the right to participate in the process since the birth and rearing of children are no less important than women in my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1454	Replica co-worker Snježana Biga Friganović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1455	Well, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I have indeed come to the replica to answer the colleague who told and asked why we put so much effort into putting together a part of the MPs, as she said, resisted one measure that was most intelligent. I must say, that's not how I understood our debate here today. The fact is, we all see the problem and we're looking for solutions. And these three laws we're discussing today are actually just an incentive to offer one more time, I would say, one to me or remind me of what we have to do. Namely, I received a document in 1996 by a national demographic policy, which unfortunately broke a beautiful document but was not realised in a number of measures. It was only when we passed the laws, when we went into realisation that we could say some of the measures in this document were respected. I want to remind you of some of the problems that appear today that are not mentioned today. Perinatal mortality in the Republic of Croatia 96. Croatia gets the World Bank's first credit to reduce perinatal mortality. At that time, he was about 14 proms away. Which meant that over 500 children were dying and maybe they shouldn't have died. As perital mortality in the European countries has shifted 4.5. In these few last goiodic perinatal mortalitys we reduced to about nine prominences. So 350 kids die and maybe you shouldn't die. I think there's a lot of room for us to just sicken up to lose kids like that, not just to encourage childbirth to save lives. And in that context, just one more sentence, Mr. President, the great problem of the chasm has not yet been touched by our state. Let us prevent this from happening to subsidize solutions in other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1456	Please. Reply to the replica of colleague Ivana Sučec Trakoštanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1457	If I had this, I don't know what I'd call different than that resistance. Because the words I've heard and I remember very well, but I'll read more when it comes to phonograms, all of them get it. Like a colorful ship, like a demagogy, like a miss, like no effect, like you shouldn't now, like you should wait for a strategy. All together as a story has been understood for me as a resistance to this proposal. Because if we were all out of resistance for that, when we started at half past ten then we would have agreed before 18.24 whether we should let this package of these three laws into another reading or not. Without so much talk with counter arguments that this isn't going to work until it's not just about not going. That's how I realized it, and I think I share the opinion and the rest of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1458	Replica esteemed colleague Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1459	Thank you very much. A respected colleague says why take a woman's right to choose. Why take a man away from the right choice. Actually, we're here to discuss something completely wrong, so it's not the right mother, it's not the right father, it's the right child. And that's the right of the child to understand that if we want to respect the basic conventions on the rights of the child to be raised by both parents. I'm asking a question here for three years what if she decides she's abandoned, or decides to leave her mate, or God forbid she decides to leave him because she's leaving with someone third. Then the motherhood myth collapses. Then the question now arises: whether a child will be entrusted to her or not. Because now her mothering colleague is so put on a pedestal question. So it's obvious that there's been a misdemeanor here, and since the beginning, this isn't a concept or a direction to be talking about a real parent. It's first and foremost the right of a child. And once again I say I leave the question and the nomotechnical nature, did it in general then, even though in the case of a divorce, a child was entrusted at that age still to his father. Is mother gonna take maternity leave like it's supposed to. Because you just misconceived him as a real mother.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1460	Thank you. The answer to the replica of my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1461	About the right of children I would also like to open a debate in this House, because this right of the child to live from conception until birth until some age when he is no longer a child is the same topic for this Croatian Parliament I expect her here. Of course, and I welcome your concern for the subject. But there's no debate here about the right of the child. Here is only the indirect right of a child to take care of himself at some time when it's totally powerless, so up to about three years of life when he can then go to institutions that are no longer a manger. I have not seen in this section a purely legal aspect and perhaps some exceptions in life that are very rare and which may not be foreseen here, but which in any case the legislator will know how to resolve if they appear in the process and where the additional acts will probably solve all this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1462	Honorable representative Katarina Fuchek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1463	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. It is difficult to say something new and sensational at this time, which is not already said in today's debate on the proposal of these measures that we have today on the benches, which certainly have one long-term meaning, not in the sense that they will bring some sort of sensation in terms of forceful and proactive intelligence and demographic activity, but in that it must begin with something. The negative demographic trends that are presented here are certainly one signal that a serious state and proactive, innovative policy as well as other measures that will help the demographic restoration of Croatia if it is not already too late, according to Letica representative himself, that demographics are often black and pessimistic. So I will say the thought of one of our famous demographics that Croatia already has no structural potential to revitalise Croatia, which means that other measures are expected to be held here in the Croatian Parliament. The present trend of ageing, the present trend means the old population, the lack of children, the expansion of the age group over 50 years suggests by projections also calculated by Croatian demographers as well as other world experts who deal with the fact that in 2006, there will be only 48% of the working population in Croatia and 52% inactive. Which means that demographic policy cannot be conducted without other synergy actions particularly strategically developing the economic development of Croatian society. And that is why I would like to stress that one common approach, one common position must be, that it must be systematically led by this policy and in particular there have been accentions in today's debate and that quality demographic policy is not the policy of a single government regardless of its political premise, but that is the policy of Croatia in which all the structures of society must be involved. So I want to ask a question, or I want to ask not a question, but a rhetorical question. These aren't sensational measures. I said they're starting to take care of the system. But then when they were brought in they were part of systematic measures and systematic approach that it was a serious state problem. Why were these possibilities diminished when amendments to the law were passed in 2000? What has actually been said to all those who have positively assessed these measures and who have consumed them? The Minister said 11,000 women. What was sent to those who were planning to use it? In order not to have a positive climate in all other stimulating economies, entrepreneurship creates a climate in order to fertilize something well, in order to stimulate something, in order to revive it, and the climate is necessary. Also, psychologically speaking, what message did we send to young people by abolishing these rights? That we will not lead any quality, proactive, demographic policy, that we will not take care of young people, that we will not take care of what Croatia will look like in 100, 200 and 300 years. And that's what we have to worry about. And whether we were in the previous term of parliament, two terms or two, we are now responsible because the last moment is to take care of it. There will never be an ideal situation. She's just gone. We must find opportunities as all other countries have begun to take care of themselves within their means. If this is a drop in the sea, or a pebble in the mosaic, then he needs to be welcomed, then he needs to be welcomed in a way that he will open up new opportunities, in a way that this mosaic will spread. Because it is certain that, as the minister announced, it is the beginning and that in a certain period when the budget projection will be made, concrete measures will also be taken that will be felt financially in one proactive population policy. It was good that other issues and other issues had to be raised in this debate, which Croatia, the Government, must take care of, and this is a particular issue of employment, especially the question of the employment of young women. And I am sure that in this sense I also see a quality approach to this government, because it has shown if it cannot bring something concrete now it has shown its real will and has shown that at the beginning it is a systematic concern for demographic policy, i.e. for Croatia's future. I think I actually covered what I was going to say. I've also recorded some reactions, but I just want to give up on them and give an opportunity to others because we're really already at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1464	Thank you. Honorable representative Danira Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1465	Dear Mr. President, Ms. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, we all know that the demographic situation in Croatia today is very bad and that forecasts according to the figures of the world and our demographics unless we do anything defeatous. Because according to international criteria, our nation is considered old, we're on our way to extinction. Since 91, more people have died than others are born, and this is confirmed by all the statistics we have heard today and in this we have a consensus. I agree that this measure, which is one of the most innovative policy measures, will not be enough to solve the overall problem of a negative population trend, but will certainly contribute to its mitigation, which is already a great deal. This also confirms a positive attitude and support by the Economic and Social Council, the Rod Association and 86% of citizens, and I would not say that these statements of support are purely of a declarative character, and they do not think that this measure has a positive sign. I need to say that I do not agree as previously said, that this measure is a measure for patriarchal societies, because with this measure of the day it is possible to use a longer maternity leave, not a commitment, so families decide whether to use it or not. It is not the law that decides how many children someone will have, but the father and mother decide independently on the principle of responsible parenting on the number of children, and the state gives them this measure to give them the conditions for making the decision as few restrictive factors as possible. So the state, I repeat, is stimulating, and does not commit to using paid three-year maternity leave, and it is becoming increasingly difficult for the state to stimulate unhappiness and create birth machines because it is a free choice, so ultimately, if we want to look at it from another angle, then an employed woman who remains at home with this measure automatically opens up a new job, even if for three years and allows that person to achieve a working experience and a job experience that will certainly help her in the future. In the spirit of everything said, and by the fact that Mr. Vidovic said that it cost us nothing, I see no reason not to support this measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1466	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1467	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, respected Deputy Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm watching a television show about ten days ago where a young man says, "What if we're a little short, the Chinese will come?" Someone else will come, so such a beautiful country will always be inhabited. I'm talking about this subject with an intellectual who says, so if there's less of us, there'll be longer drinking water. Today I hear there's a threat of overcrowding. So I read further opinions, that it would be better to increase the number of children in kindergarten than to even deal with such laws. I agree. Here we are in St. Sunday in 10 years of 140 kids in kindergarten, now 440. By building new kindergartens, by expanding, I think we've given the maximum of what I call here and many colleagues who are also MPs to help, because that's one of the measures. This isn't the only measure here either. This is a measure to correct what has been done wrong, so by abolishing the right. In kindergartens we know for ourselves, when a small child comes they are often sick mothers because a child unaccustomed to different viruses is often sick and the mother is missing from work. Despite the numerous places we have secured in kindergarten, the pressure is still high and these measures could possibly give us a place more. We know it's hard for mothers, that every employer or most employers to ask what we've heard today and how many children they have when they think and whether they think about having a baby and if they don't promise and sign that they won't give birth for a while, they might not even hire her. But many mothers would, because for years we've talked about these problems, they'd accept a solution like this, and we don't force anyone to do this by law. Furthermore, if this law, as some colleagues and colleagues claim, will not accept, means that it will not cost us much in the budget, but what bothers me is the use of the words demagogy. We know that demagogue and manipulation were the two favorite items in one quasi school, in one small Zagorje place, and apparently it's passed from knee to knee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1468	I thank Mr. Representative. The word is Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1469	Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister. I would first of all like to thank Mrs. Kosor, here all day long she has been patiently with us, it is not easy, especially after what Mr. Bacic said, that everything has already been said. I just disagree with him in one thing, I even think he said too much. That we've been over-repeated, that we've gone too far, that we've touched both Taliban and bearded children and contimination and demagogy, and I don't know what not. I think it was unnecessary and unlike the others I'm going to try not to point out the differences today but to point out what I am, I deliberately signed up to be near the end, to learn from you, to see how it works and to try to make some kind of contribution to this debate. I think we should have come from those elements that connect us, not from what separates us. I find that we could draw at least three conclusions about where we can reach consensus. First of all, I hope you all agree that this is a matter of national importance. That pro-demographic policy, the policy that we must put at the top of our obligations and the top of what it is for the government to do in the next period. So I would add, that we seem to have all agreed on another conclusion, and this is that the ultimate policy is just one small segment of the overall active demographic policy. And the third conclusion would then be that we can't stop here if we agree on at least these few principle elements. That is why this House, as an employer to our government, should be bound by several tasks. Because we are all aware after such a long debate that takes all day that these smaller or larger differences that we are going to put into the proposals will not mean anything and that we will not succeed at all if we do not build our country's overall pro-demographic policy. We have heard excellent suggestions here from those who have demanded that it go clearly in writing and apply measures that will prevent young people from going to the world. It is a very complex measure, i.e. I would say a group of measures, probably more than half of the ministers in the government would have to engage in these measures, from registration policy, from economic policy, from the development policy that these rely on, etc. etc. Then we have to wonder why in the past ten years not many of our citizens, our Croats have returned from the world. I know in my county many who came and after a year, two left again. And that's something we have to deal with, and we obviously have to make bold moves, admit certain mistakes, and try to correct it clearly. Diseases and addictions are the good principles of our young people. Therefore, even if we can even balance our birth and mortality with these measures, we may not achieve anything. Because by leaving young people, by losing young people, we are clearly in a negative position again. Then it would be very good if, although we can see that this segment has been expelled from the work of our ministries, that it is now in the state office, local and regional self-government, I would like to pray, of course, for Mrs Kosor to pass on our opinions to the Government that when it comes to pre-school institutions, education, special institutions for disabled children, persons are particularly in need. It's more and less in local and regional self-government today. Therefore, good vertical communication and cooperation in this pro-demographic policy and with local and regional self-government are also needed. We can't clearly say that's their concern, let's not connect it to the network, let's not connect it to the system. In fact, we need to connect very effectively into a single system. Then, we should perhaps be brave enough to talk about some things that we didn’t mention today and at least try to get around them. In Croatia, a number of young people work temporarily from our neighbouring countries. They have work permits. Will we also try to include these people in our pro-demographic policy? We know it's part of the pro-demographic policy of the countries of the West, including North America. I would like us to try today, or if the Deputy Prime Minister promised us some kind of deadline, a reasonable deadline within which we would get proposals from all these measures, and then we would clearly be sure that our most intelligent policy that we will vote on today or tomorrow will be clearly successful. I would suggest that it should not be for more than six months, that, before the summer, by 15.7., we get at least most of the proposals in this direction and then we work on it for the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1470	I thank Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Now she has the word of Mrs. Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1471	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. After a thousand years of unfreedom and a decades of anti-Croatian policy, 72 years and the first and second Yugoslavia has been systematically implemented for the persecution of the Croatian nation, and this has been the hardest and most devastating impact in demographic indicators that were very unfavourable in 1990 because until then there was a time of exorcism, the disintegration of the Croatian nation. Since 1990, the time of creation and defence of an independent and sovereign Croatian state, which we have achieved. After the establishment of freedom and sovereignty, tasks and priorities and concerns for the future of the Croatian people and all its citizens were reduced. The special concern was about a demographic picture that is today unfavourable, negative and going towards the extinction of the Croatian nation, so in 1996 a programme of demographic development of the Republic of Croatia was adopted which had the intention and the desire to be more born, to be less evicted, to be more return from the emigration and for the Croatian population to be better deployed in the entire territory of the Croatian state. I see, Madam Minister, that these three laws we've been talking about all day today, that this was a continuation of the 1996 programme that was one and a measure after the third-month government stopped. But I support these three laws, which certainly won't bring as much as we'd like, but they're one rock that we'll try to stop the negative trend of birth. These bill proposals or this bill is not superficial, it's not cosmetically colored, it's not a good gesture. This is the bill adopted on the basis of statistics and the real state of demographic image in the Republic of Croatia. I hope after a short time when we get the results of these laws we'll be at least, I'm sure, a little more satisfied than we are today. However, since I have called on the 1996 proposal for a national programme of demographic development of the Republic of Croatia, so allow me to call on one more special part, which I have already highlighted, which is the return of Croatian people from eviction. And I hope that this will happen, that mistakes will be corrected and that we will do everything that is done by the countries of origin that have great Croatian emigrantism. In the past term, as representative of Croatian emigration and Croats outside the country, I have several times listed statistics if we count the third generation in European countries, and it exists for the third generation in European countries, then 50% of the Croatian population lives in the country and 50% outside of it. It is the wealth of the Croatian state, and that is not the burden of the Croatian state. So we will strive and I suggest to all colleagues of the representatives and the Croatian government, to strengthen the role of Croatian emigrants in connecting the Republic of Croatia with the international market to be stronger. Aversion to the disturbances affecting the return of emigrants, and they have more than the Law of Administration, etc., informing Croatian emigrants, encouraging and helping the work of emigrant organizations, and we hope that in this way we may make up for something that has not been done in these 10 or 15 or 50 years. However, these three laws certainly are not and do not depend solely on these laws today to achieve a rise in birth in the Republic of Croatia. Normally this is influenced by the standard to influence the economic situation, to influence the normal material position of the family, housing. As we have heard here today, several times it has been repeated, mangers, kindergartens, education, social and health care, housing, protection of pregnant women, child's allowance, child's compensation, i.e. maternity and maternity benefits. Well, today, my colleague Jurjevic called me Zdenko, and I call him Marine. When you talked about a child's allowance normally after January 3rd that you abolished the child's allowance and no one asks for a child's allowance to be obtained from up to 60 years. We are constantly calling for European and neighbouring countries, so why didn't you compare yourself at that point with Poland, which grants and makes a child's allowance and those after 25 years in the event of schooling. Slovenia also since 18 and 26 years in the case of schooling, 26 years after 26 years for children with disabilities. Switzerland, Luxemburg and other European Union countries. Unfortunately, with the countries of the European Union or outside the European Union, we cannot identify ourselves in many ways, and let us do something to be a role model for the countries of the European Union which are members and which will be tomorrow. As for today's debate, something, I've been thinking about and it has the right to, with this law and today's debate, the woman and her career rights, to her full rights, to which she has. But why not speak today, the value of a woman as a mother stands out. Every woman has if God gives her the will to choose what she thinks is better for her. I guess the value of a mother's wife, she didn't stand out so much today because she couldn't possibly need not just ten minutes of discussion as an individual, perhaps in the name of clubs there could be a lot to say about what the values of a mother are and what the values of a woman who has the right to a career are. In all this I want it to happen in the Croatian Parliament that what we should not paint with party colors to highlight something called the national interest of the Republic of Croatia. Today, you may attribute this last sentence to me to demagogy or pathetic not only because of us, we don't think and we don't pass such laws, we are the country, or nation that we die, we are the nation and people who created Croatia with Croatian blood, so if, besides all the other futures of the Croatian state and the Croatian people and of the Croatian nation where man is life, and life is a family and children we owe to those who gave blood on the altar of the Homeland of Croatia. And we have to repay them in this way, but they want to and they gave their lives to live Croatia to Croatian people, family and Croatian tradition.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1472	I thank Mrs. Zdenko Babic-Petricevic. And as the last speaker in this agenda point, I hope that we will soon finish it is Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1473	Mr. Vice President, Madam Vice President. As my contribution to this discussion, or to the adoption of these materials, I will basically speak only one sentence, or to shorten the time for this to happen, to adopt these materials, and only to say one or two sentences. If we've borrowed land from future generations and not inherited it, then it's something to do, if we agree and if we're for the culture of life and not death, then it's also something to do, I think you're on the right track, that you have strength and knowledge, and that we'll succeed. I would just suggest two, three things, which is that demographic health is seriously disrupted, that depopulation is a disease and that maybe do something in this field, it might be good to encourage medical demography as a new discipline based on science in the community with the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Health, as well as join the European Association for Population Research, which operates through the European Population Conferences. So it was my short contribution and I'm giving up my further debate because there's no need to actually repeat myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1474	I thank the esteemed representative especially for shorting it, and he said it mattered. A list of speakers has been exhausted. I am finalising the debate on items of agenda 3, 4 and 5. I'm sorry, Minister, I was only looking at the MPs, it might be mine like this. Excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1475	Of course I'll be brief, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would like to thank you for a truly inspiring debate full of good proposals not only for these legislative proposals, but for our project, the government project in which we will certainly stick and respect all other programmes that have been adopted in this Croatian Assembly. I am pleased with your support and I show this satisfaction on behalf of the Government, satisfied with the support of the public and satisfied that after 4 years I can say as a representative of the Croatian Government that this right is returning to Croatian legislation. Finally, Mr. Vice-President, I would read a sentence from the work of the Croatian Academy of Science and Skills, which reads: "Ignoring the current demographic phenomena and processes, leaving them to spontaneous flows increasingly strengthens not only the economic crisis but also the social crisis, the family crisis and even the crisis of life in Croatia." I think it is the support of our efforts and that, based on this debate today, it could not be said as it came from some circles that this Government proposal is primitive and retrograde. I think these measures will receive satisfactory support in the Croatian Parliament and I thank you on behalf of the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1476	I thank the vice-presidents of the government and the minister of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. I am finalising the debate on the item on agendas 3, 4 and 5 and will be voted later on on these items of the agenda. I suggest we skip the agenda point of the 6th and 7th, since there have been a crowd of representatives for the debate, so some of these points can be completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1477	The following is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Labour Act, first reading. Proposed Law No. 5. The debate is closed. I give the vote the following conclusion: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Abstained? I find that with 92 votes in favour, 9 against and 25 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been adopted. I hereby give the following conclusion to the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HSS: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to follow the second reading of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the labour law, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the law on maternity leave for mothers carrying out the independent activity and unemployed mothers and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Health Insurance to the Croatian Assembly and to propose a Strategy for Protonatality Policy and the total package of laws I have read the results with one add-on to the overarching, innovative policies and an overall package of laws containing all measures to implement the adopted policy. [[The intruders don't understand.]] I ask the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister, to make a statement on the Government's proposal for this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1478	Thank you very much, Mr. President, honourable ladies and gentlemen, the Government accepts the meaning, spirit and message of these conclusions, but we have this deadline until the second reading, which means that it will be a moment when you will have a second reading of these laws, so it is too short for us to create and strategy of the most intelligent policy, it is a comprehensive document and for the overall package of laws that will contain all the measures to implement the adopted policy, so I would like to ask the representatives of the HSS Club to agree. So I suggest, on behalf of the Government, that maybe for a strategy of the most intelligent policy, it'll be, say, three months, and for this whole package of laws to be over the year. We'll try, of course, as soon as possible, all the laws, so that whole package of laws. So it's a three-month strategy, and it's for all the other laws over the year. Here, that would be a reformation if the gentlemen and ladies of the HSS Club would accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1479	So since we were told in the presentation that we assume that the Government will remain or continue with the measures that this Parliament has established, so if I understand correctly, the Vice President is not planning a new strategy, but rather the strategy to continue which is started and during the year to make sure that we remain in the conclusion that it is not until the second reading but during the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1480	Okay. Then, in that case, the government of course... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u1481	Thank you very much. Then I'll put it to the vote. In accordance with the proposal of the HSS Representatives Club with this Appendix as regards the deadline, that conclusion shall be mentioned in the vote. Please, who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 120 votes for and 8 abstentions, the above conclusion has been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2066	I suggest we move to agenda 8 - Proposal for a decision to hold a multilateral military exercise "Adriatic Phiblex 04-2 Engineerex". Introducing the decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have received the material in boxes, and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law apply to the decision, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Minister of Defence of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2067	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I will respect the fact that from the early hours of the morning in this council, I will only briefly explain the need to make this decision. An international, multilateral military exercise by the Croatian Armed Forces and the armed forces of the United States, the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Helenian Republic, the Republic of Italy, Macedonia, Romania, Turkey and the Republic of Croatia has been planned. It is engineering with the purpose of building the infrastructure on our military polygon Slunj, and support the infrastructure of Slunj and the surrounding settlements of the construction of the waterway. This is part of international military co-operation, which would take place in two phases as an exercise of American engineers' activities in the period from 15 February to 17 April 2004, including the construction of a new sanitary bathroom facility in the D-zone of the military polygon, and the main part of the exercise from 18 April to 30 June this year. Since under the Law on Defence of the Entry and Action of Armed Forces of Other States in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament is to decide within the framework of the exercise. I'm asking for this decision. The exercise also has its expected financial resources at the cost of the site. It would be planned at the Ministry of Defence's position in the state budget, on the item of military training, training and education, building infrastructure, and the planned funds amounting to 13 million 826 thousand 358 kuna. From that agreement, the United States would participate with 4 million 420 thousand, and the rest would go to the expense of the Republic of Croatia's budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2068	I thank the Minister of Defence, Mr Rončević. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Chairman of the Committee Mr. Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2069	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security held its first session on January 28th, and there was a report on the proposal for a decision to hold a multilateral military exercise, “Adriatic Phiblex 04-2Engineerex”. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal at the 1st session held on 28 January 2004 on the proposal for a decision on the maintenance of a multilateral military exercise, “Adriatic-Piblex 04-2 Engineerex”, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 15 January 2004. In the opening statement, the proposer informed the Committee members of the reasons why the decision is to be taken and the objectives that are to be achieved through the maintenance of this multilateral exercise. After the debate, the Committee supported the decision-making process by assessing that it is the interest of the Republic of Croatia to acquire the expertise and experience of our members of the armed forces who will participate in the exercise and will positively reflect our aspirations for NATO membership. After the debate, the Committee proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a Decision on the maintenance of a multilateral military exercise “Adriatic-Piblex 04-2 Engineerex” in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2070	I thank Mr. Capricorn. Does a representative of the Legislative Committee want to? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms. Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2071	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. As we heard from Mr. Minister's opening argument, it is one exercise that has a broad character of benefits that will be recognised in the short term but also in the long term by the armed forces as raising quality, operational opportunities, interoperability, procedures, means overall capabilities of the activities of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, but as highlighted in the report of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, an indirect and almost direct objective also refers to the achievement of the goal of joining the Croatian NATO alliance. At first, I would like to say that the SDP Club will support this proposal for a decision, maintaining this military exercise, but I will certainly take this opportunity to warn how irresponsible conduct may be at one point. Same people, same politics, but two different attitudes. Namely, the proposal for this decision appears the second time in this House, not in this assembly of parliaments, but it was first referred to the procedure in the previous assembly of parliaments. But perhaps most of you who, even though you were agents in this assembly, will not be able to remember that you have ever had a chance to discuss this. The proposal for this decision is addressed to allow all preparations to take place on time because the first part of these activities starts on February 15th. Today we are at the very end of January and it seems to me, so quite unacceptable and irresponsible that only 15 days before the start of such a complex exercise that you will assume requires long-term preparations to discuss it today and make a decision. The first time this proposal, because this time it wasn't always the case, the Ministry referred the proposal in time to the procedure, was not the decision taken because a large part of the MPs then called the Parliament, the largest part that sits on this side today not in the position of opposition but in the authorities, boycotted the parliament's sessions. And today we can hear that the previous government did not pay sufficient attention to the measures and actions to be taken to bring the NATO alliance closer, but when we translate it into concrete events then we see that some who today are very strong supporters of NATO's accession policy have changed their position. Today they support it, and yesterday, when they were only opposition, it seems to me that their interest in the Republic of Croatia was something opaque, something not as transparent as it is today. Well, you see the SDP Club didn't change its policy either then or today. We remain consistent even though the proposer of this Act is the party that is in power today, and we are that party's opposition. We are pleased to continue a good policy in this sense, a good practice as we are not glad that many good, just start practice in the same ministry as it is possible to see from some moves will not continue. But when the time comes and when we have very concrete arguments, we will be able to say specifically that it is not acceptable that in some of the steps we have reached, regardless of whose mandate we are going back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2072	Has anyone come forward for the correction? It's not. ... Well, then, to correct the incorrect allegations, the representative Mr. Ivan Jarnjak. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2073	Dear Mr. Vice President, it is incorrect that Mrs. Antunovic said that these as she called us sitting here in the last meeting were against making a decision or boycotting the outbursts because of this Parliament's work decision. HDZ had absolutely reason to boycott certain points of the Parliament's agenda, not here and not specifically here and not against it, but for principle reasons for certain other reasons, that I have no right to talk about it now because it is only a correction of the allegations. But you have no right to invoke the one who used his democratic right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2074	I thank Mr. Representative. Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2075	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Let us first in the opening part of a few words support the proposal for a decision on the maintenance of this multilateral military exercise. It is certainly not too much to stress here that such joint multilateral military exercises are particularly important not only for Croatian troops, but for the Republic of Croatia as a whole, as they contribute to strengthening our bilateral military relations, strengthening multilateral military cooperation. It should certainly be stressed that five NATO member states are participating in this exercise. This exercise is also important for strengthening our regional military cooperation. It is further, a commitment they have within the Partnership for Peace. It specifically contributes to standardisation of training, exchange of experiences, improving training, strengthening interoperability with NATO troops, and certainly contributes to our convergence with NATO membership. It is definitely part of our foreign policy that supports the forms of such bilateral and multilateral military exercises, but not since yesterday or the day before yesterday, but I would say since 1995 when the first bilateral and multilateral military exercises began. It should certainly be noted that this exercise contributes, among other things, to the training of Croatian military troops to participate in international military missions from Afghanistan, and perhaps one day in Iraq, and it may happen that the Croatian troops there will be active in the form of engineering units. For this reason this exercise is very important, it strengthens the infrastructure in one important, I would say perhaps the most important military polygon in this part of Europe. Certainly, taking into account all the facts and aspects that this exercise does not affect the integrity of the environment in any way, this exercise should be fully supported. And now allow me a few words in a slightly broader context of military cooperation, those bilateral and multilateral. The co-operation, as I said, began in 1995, I will stress in 1994, and the defence minister and chief of the Croatian Army's Chief of Staff were visiting the Pentagon, and in 1994 we signed an agreement on bilateral military co-operation with the United States. So it is not true that the HDZ does not support such forms of military cooperation, the HDZ has established and established these forms of cooperation and it is quite logical, naturally, to support such an exercise as the continuity of its political and any other action today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2076	On behalf of the Club of HSP MPs, Honored Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2077	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. The assembly will discuss military exercises in these late hours, which should be held at Slunj from 15 February to 30 June, so until 1. 7. Practically this year, during a period which, if we know, well penetrates the tourist season. The military exercise is called, forgive me Mr. Minister, the military exercise is called, I will read it as an average Croatian who does not rule in English read, "Adriatic Hiblex 04-2 enginerex", so I am asking you nicely, and we in HSP suspect that this is probably American military terminology. But as this is about the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Armed Forces, I ask that in future all military exercises that are multinational have their own Croatian translation name, I do not know what this should be in translation, perhaps "Adriatic Water Engineering Exercise" probably. But as it is about the Croatian Parliament and Croatian military terminology, then it must be. Otherwise, when we have, if God does, I look forward to it one day, a military exercise with the Japanese Earth's self-defense forces, I suppose the Parliament will have the name of an exercise in Japanese, and I will be able to participate as an interpreter in it and help, but this is really without a joke now, it's unusual for the Parliament to decide on a military exercise whose name most of us can hardly translate at all. Slunj, in addition to this, turns out to be at sea, I expect that my colleague Kalmeta will eventually appoint a port captainate for Slunjska polygon, as more and more military exercises involving the US military force have this Adriatic name, so it is that Americans are increasingly using Slunjska polygon as a relatively cheap and accessible polygon for their military exercises. All the participating countries in this military exercise have their own troops in Iraq, part of them have their own troops in Afghanistan, for example Albania, and Macedonia, all others are present in Iraq, some of them have already given their share of human victims in the takeover of Iraq and in the colonial administration that Americans have there. Don’t pretend to be uninterested just by the water supply. Because Japan's Earth's self-defense forces went to the Basra area to build a water line in the city of Al Samabah. So, after this exercise, Croatia will be in a "sensational position" to offer either its counterintelligence company for the anti-sniper fight, or to offer its engineering to build water lines in the western suburb of Baghdad. So, each of these military exercises must be seen in a broader context, and if this is about one completely I would say almost to civilian military application, then it must be seen of course as well as any other military exercise in its economic aspect. Croatia spends 9.5 million kuna on this military exercise, the US invests 4.5 million kuna. All right, at the end of the day, Croatia remains a water line, but in the Slunje polygon area. Of course, NATO encourages the military's military deployment with the economy and that economic and social effects with NATO countries and with all NATO members or candidates are as important as the military. But what is particularly important here, Mr. Minister, is that, in the legal basis mentioned here, it is a law on defence knowingly, completely consciously forgets that the legal basis for this military exercise is also an agreement on cooperation in the repression of weapons of mass destruction between the Republic of Croatia and the United States of America which was ratified in the Croatian Parliament last year. What he had the courage to speak of in the House was only the Club of Representatives of the HSP. And where we're the only ones who point out all the nebulises that stand in that agreement. When it comes to the fact that, under this agreement, Croatia itself bears all the damage that happens during the US military exercise that all members of US civilian and military personnel have full immunity in the territory of Croatia, that they are exempt from any criminal or harmful liability, that all purchases for their needs on the territory of Croatia are carried out under the US Public Procurement Act, that imports to their needs on Croatian territory have nothing to do with either VAT or our customs services. And that Croatia must provide all possible support for their aircraft found in Croatia's territory. Then it is clear that Croatia will participate throughout the story on its occasion with a far greater amount than the 9.4 million kuna mentioned here. So, when we talk about the legal basis, then it should be borne in mind that in the previous meeting of the Assembly, a military co-operation agreement with the United States is ratified, under which Croatia, in the aspect of international law, is approximately equal to one of the Indian reserves in the territory of the United States. So, unfortunately these are the facts, we have to tell them in this High House what it is, because they are actually relevant for assessing all the costs and all the events that will take place in Croatia as long as the exercise takes place. I remind you once again, it's a military exercise that ends in de facto June 30th. That any interference of the Armed Forces, even if engineers on the D-1 state road in the Slunje area, will not make a very good impression on foreign tourists. And these are the reasons why HSP and when this was first discussed, we had the same attitude and we, as my predecessor said, remained consistent. Some may have been liberating in their position but HSP was very clear and then and now as far as the military deal with the United States is concerned and as far as these military exercises are concerned. None of us have anything special against the United States, I've been there more times than my colleagues, but we are Croatian politicians and we look at Croatia's national interests in the first row, especially we have to do this which we are parliamentary representatives and ladies and gentlemen in the Croatian government, executive government. And that is why we in HSP think it is good for Croatia to show itself as a military partner not only to the United States but also to us closer countries such as Italy, Romania, Turkey, Bulgaria and Greece, but in all this we leave too many issues and too many ambiguities. And that we could only support this military exercise so easily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2078	Thank you, correcting an incorrect quote. Dear representative Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2079	If I were sure that the minister would answer some of the inaccuracies here, I wouldn't answer for the word, but I can't prejudge whether or not he will, so I feel the need to correct two incorrect allegations. One is, all the countries participating in the exercise do not have their strength in Iraq, the US-English coalition or the coalition of those who started the war in Iraq. The Turkish parliament refused to direct its forces. Turkey is one of the participants in this exercise and there is no, it is one incorrect allegation. And another incorrect assumption is that this Agreement, namely this military exercise, has nothing to do with the Agreement against which the HSPs were raised the moment it was signed. Namely this exercise was started planning her long ago. It is an engineering exercise and I have nothing to do with Sporuzum talking about strengthening Croatian forces in action against terrorism.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2080	Thank you. Does the minister still want to give some final consideration? Here you go. Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2081	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In addition to what Mrs Antunovic said, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I can only make it clear that the Croatian Government is fulfilling the Croatian national interests, so we are deeply convinced that the decision on multilateral military exercises is within our desire to bring NATO closer to the same path. And any additional intelligence Mr. Agent has I allow that I don't have them, so I'll leave it to his judgment if he's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2082	Thank you very much for closing the debate. I'm sure we'll vote tomorrow. Proposal for a decision on the maintenance of a multilateral military exercise "Adriatic" etc. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you very much. Against? Abstained? I find the decision has been made by 121 votes for and seven abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2087	Dear Mr President, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security as the parent committee has considered the proposed bill in question and has made it clear that the text of the final draft of the law has not been made up, and the Committee has decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Turkey in cooperation in military areas, training, techniques and sciences in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2088	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of Croatian Democratic Community Representative Krešimir Cosic's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2089	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a few words on behalf of the HDZ Club. This Agreement signed in 1996 is just another proof that Croatian military cooperation dates back to some I would say maybe even a long time ago. Times in which, in some cases, I would say to political quasesors, Croatia was isolated. The fact is that Croatia was not then isolated, and the fact is that already in 1996, a high-quality military co-operation agreement with no more than one NATO member of the state, with one armed force, which is one of the best-quality, technical equipment, modernization of its armed forces. Furthermore, I personally participated in the preparation of this agreement when the then chief of the Turkish Army's chief of staff, General Karadej, expressed maximum confidence because of the fact that it allowed this bilateral military co-operation to spread to the fields of science. Cooperation in scientific areas in the area of defence is the most sensitive and difficult to reach. It was a sign of trust, it was a sign of the success of our policy at the Ministry of Defense at the time. It is true that we should have waited so many years for such an important and valuable agreement to be implemented. Over the years, and I thank you, Mr. Minister, for getting out of the drawer as quickly as possible. I'm going to take advantage of this opportunity and say a few more words about this agreement. Bilateral military cooperation in the field of scientific technical research is very important. Croatia is unfortunately not ready for this form of co-operation for various reasons. It is not prepared for a number of reasons because of the structure of the people in the sector today and is not prepared for its defence budget either. Modern standards suggest that within the framework of the calculated defence ministries for research and development, 2% to 3% stand out. I can say that in 1999, at the defence ministry level, we reached 1% and I can conclude that unfortunately, that part of the budget within the Ministry of Defence is almost zero today in 2004. In any case, these are facts that should warn us that when we talk in the future about defence, then it is not just a conversation about the military, about the boots, about the rifle, about the soldier, but that it is also a conversation about a part of the infrastructure that is the characteristic of almost every developed country in the world today. It is not overstated that the highest quality schools in management from many other areas were created within military institutions, that many important areas and theoretical disciplines were created precisely in military areas such as operational research and so on. And I would say let this agreement that we signed eight years ago force us to restructure, and prepare for our military cooperation and for the structure of our defence budget that we will soon see in this House to be such as to characterise the modernisation of the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army and in this important segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2090	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, respected representative Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2091	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I was already afraid that one fact from this proposed material would come undetected through this Assembly, however, my predecessor, Mr. Cosic, said on behalf of the HDZa club. Namely, the agreement was signed by the late Defence Minister Gojko Sušak in 6 months of 96. Many many years ago. Indeed, the fact that Turkey was a country that has always given its hand to Croatia, which has always shown its friendly intentions and good intentions towards Croatia without any restraint, and since then, this agreement has been signed by one of the key evidence that this was the case. However, as the friendly gesture has always been, not only this gesture but also many others, the gesture of respect has brought Croatia back to Turkey. The signed agreement today will be difficult if they do not testify, and here we have heard one of the participants, the creation and signing of this agreement, we will find it difficult to figure out why this prozazum was signed and why it was later bunkered and stored unwarranted in the Croatian Parliament, and here we are only discussing it today. I'm afraid I'm afraid, even though I'm talking about past times, that the intentions were not so clear. We'll sign one and we'll work, like in many other cases at that time, the other. With all due respect, Minister Roncevic, the current Croatian government, which is fast, which did not allow the agreement, or law prepared for the procedure, to wait another four or eight years. I still have to fix it, and tell you how it happened that this agreement saw the light of day. That is not why neither former nor former officials of the defence ministry who needed an official or employee who should have warned many during this time that the pro-azum exists, but will not be in because at the time of my ministerial mandate, I was warned by a fellow Turkish defence minister. It's a shame. It is a shame given to us by that authority which at the time the agreement was signed, for completely unclear and unknown reasons allowed Croatia to be completely unnecessarily compromised. I was so embarrassed. And that deal was drawn after that, to the insistence from the bunker, and here we hope to ratify it tomorrow. But despite this one disrespect for keeping the reputation of the Republic of Croatia, to which we can bear witness today, there is no point in anyone, especially those who are no longer among us for this reason. But let this be a warning. That much depends on Croatia's reputation and position in the international community, bilateral relations or multilateral relations. Despite this irresponsible behaviour of Croatian bureaucracy, then Croatian bureaucracy, the Republic of Turkey is still not only one of the biggest friends today, but regardless of the lack of a ratified agreement, the Republic of Turkey has become one of the most important defence and security partners in the previous period, one of the most prospective partners in one area that we have opened and which is extremely important, and this is the area of defence industry and logistics and military-science and technological development and innovation. I think you are all familiar with the reception that one Croatian product has in Turkey thanks to the efforts, efforts and extraordinary efforts of many who participated in this project, and hopefully this ratified agreement will also help today's Government of the Republic of Croatia, today's Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces make a new step and realize what is largely prepared. I am very glad that the SDP club will participate and support this ratification of the agreement. But I'm very sorry, and I think we all need to at least quietly ask ourselves, can this ever happen again?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2092	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect alleged representative Mr. Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2093	I am correcting Mrs. Antunovic's claim that the government of 4 years ago is more guilty that this agreement has stopped somewhere in the drawer. If for any reason he stopped a year or two in a drawer 5 or 6 years ago, I don't know why he stopped in a drawer for 4 years, and those are ministers who don't know what agreements lie in their drawer, and then the Turkish minister reveals to them. Because when they took over their duties as defense ministers for the past four years, they must have peeked into those drawers and found this agreement? So I don't know whose it's supposed to be a shame. If we're talking about shame, then she's seen to have been and lasted four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2094	Thank you. Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2095	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I didn't come out here to thank Mr. Cosic for his commendation. I only considered a normal international agreement with a country with which we have friendly relations and good military cooperation to end up in accordance with the Law on the Implementation of International Agreements. However, in order to properly inform the public and your representatives, I have here in favor of materials that clearly say that this agreement saw the light of day somewhere in May last year. He's passed the necessary inter-resor coordination. Certain ministries and offices have been shown to have no objections. A draft decision has also been drawn up, i.e. a proposal for a decision by the Parliament. But the decision hasn't been made. Why and why, I won't engage. I haven't been sitting in these benches at this time, so I have no idea. But the fact is that this procedure was already under way last year, 2003, but no decision was made. I considered it necessary to put this in the process and bring the procedure to an end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2096	Thank you very much. I'm finalizing a debate on this subject. Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on cooperation in military areas of training, techniques and science, emergency procedure. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that it is unanimous with 128 votes to be passed to mention the law in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2099	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and MPs. I'm just going to give a brief summary of everything that preceded this final bill's proposal. Namely, the center was founded in 1993. From the material you saw the goals of this center. I will only introduce you to the members of the centre so far: the Republic of Austria, Bulgaria, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Poland and the Swiss Confederation. Croatia together with the Republic of Poland and Portugal has participating country status. The status of participating country Croatia gained in 1995 by signing the Agreement on Cooperation with the Centro. After that, there was a stalemate, and again in 2002 when the Centre sent a formal invitation letter to the Republic of Croatia to become a member in July. In November 2002. The Police Directorate has shown positively about this initiative that everything would be formalised on 29 August 2003 when then the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Tonino Picula, with the Director of the International Centre for Development Policy of Migration, signed the Declaration on the intention of joining the Republic of Croatia, the Agreement on the Establishment and Labour of the Centre. So, that 2003. On August 29th, a declaration expressing Croatia's intention to join the Centre was signed. So basically this is now just the final act of all these actions that have been done since 1995. What is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia that stems from this Act of Accession to the Centre is a membership of 20,000 euros, and these funds are secured, and after the adoption of this law Croatia would receive one vote in the Management Assembly of the Centre. And we estimate that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is to join the Centre because of the importance of the information that the Centre would lead, which would be of great benefit to the Republic of Croatia in leading its migration policy. I therefore propose that this law be passed by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2100	Thank you. Do the representatives want the committee's rapporteurs? President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Mr. Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2101	Your Honor, Mr. President. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 1st session held on 28 January 2004 the proposal for a law on the approval of the Treaty on the Establishment and Labour of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 22 January 2004. In his opening statement, he introduced the committee members to the reasons why the adoption of this law and the application of the emergency procedure were proposed. The members of the Committee supported the adoption of an emergency procedure law. In order to ensure the continued use of ICMDP services by the Republic of Croatia and to start preparations for formal accession to this Treaty, it has been established that this contract is to be confirmed and that cooperation in the field of information exchange on border control and illegal migration is strengthened in this way. The text of the final proposal for the law did not contain any concrete proposals, remarks, and the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty on the Establishment and Labour of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy in the text as proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2102	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. We don't have clubs. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2103	Mr. President, dear ministers. There's only one brief comment here. In fact, if you have carefully read the proposal of this law, then you could see that nothing is clear to you from your reasoning. This form of writing this proposal should serve the Government and the promoters that the law should not be written, because there was absolutely nothing in it until I read the contract myself. Even in the materials I am learning now, that both Bulgaria and Poland have signed an earlier contract, in my material it does not stand, but that their intention is to do so. That's why I volunteered to really try to respect this House and respect MPs, to prepare material in a better way. I think it's an interesting matter. I know we can't change the contract, he's what he is, a black and white technique, but if we could learn much more about not only the objectives but the projects, the achievements, what we're going to benefit from and what the countries of the signatories currently have from such a single contract, I think that would be a minimum of courtesy for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2104	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the Treaty on the founding and working of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy, an emergency procedure. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 121 votes for and 7 abstentions, the law in the text is mentioned as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2107	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. At its session on 15 January this year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union for 2004. This is the second national program in a row. The first was accepted in 2003 on 18.12.2002. Unlike the first programme, this programme is expanded and is based on the government programme of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2002-2007 and with the measures provided for in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the evaluation of the progress made by the Republic of Croatia in the European Commission's report and cooperation with the European Commission delegation and also covers all chapters of the acquis of the European Communities. It focuses on several topics, primarily on meeting the politically conditioned criteria, economic adjustment, harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the ability to assume obligations from membership, strengthening administrative competence for implementing reforms and communication strategies for informing the Croatian public on the approximation of European integration. The National Programme provides for the adoption of 45 legislative measures during this year and 199 sublegal acts. In the proposal to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the 2004 kicommuner, Appendix A to the national programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union – 2004, which we are submitting to you for adoption, these legislative measures are listed, so that I would like to propose one amendment to this plan in light of the latest circumstances, i.e. yesterday's decisions of the Constitutional Court, which repeals the Media Act because of the lack of quorum, so I suggest that the adoption of the Media Law also be included in the draft legislative activities for this year 2004. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2108	I thank the minister. Does the rapporteur want a committee? Yeah. Dear Representative Mimica, Chairman of the European Integration Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2109	Dear Mr. President, Ms. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on European Integrations of the Croatian Parliament as a home working body at its 1st session held on 28 January of this year discussed the proposal for a plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with a kicommuner for 2004, which is the addition of a total national programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union. The debate noted that the number of legislative measures envisaged for 2004 were smaller than those in relation to 2003, so the Committee advocated the dynamicisation of legislative activity in state administration bodies in the legislative harmonisation process in order to further increase the number of legislative measures until the revision of the national programme in June this year. Moreover, given that the proposal in question concerns the measures envisaged for 2004, it is proposed to reject some legislative proposals that are scheduled to be carried out in 2005, which were an integral part of this plan for 2004. On the basis of the debate, the Committee on European Integration has unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the following conclusions: First, the plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the kicommuner for 2004 and the second, it is proposed to implement the plan for harmonisation of legislation more quickly in order to bring even more legislative proposals in line with the legal acquis of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2110	I thank the board president. We're going to a club debate. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica on behalf of the club HSP. Please, if you'd like the committee's rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2111	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System also discussed this report and this plan and the Committee is simply I will not be too long and will not read it, the Committee has accepted this plan, by having discussed and we have actually said that we would only suggest that in the wording, in fact, the content document be used by the names of the Croatian literary language and that this name corresponds to the content of the document. So when we translate foreign words to take care of content, but we have reached a unanimous conclusion that we accept this plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2112	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP club, respected representative Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2113	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. For every commendation of the fact that the government was very quickly, the competent ministry submitted a proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the addition of the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union. It's a shame that such an important topic comes in quite a late hour, but anyway, on behalf of the club, we wanted to say a few words. Otherwise, it is necessary to discuss as much as possible what will be the occasion, so harmonisation of legislation on all these conditions, aspects that Croatia faces with the challenges ahead, which are related to the integration and accession of the European Union. This large material that has not been reached in these days and a half, two to the end, is analysed, but several principles can be pointed out, which the Minister also mentioned, and that there are several groups of conditions for joining the European Union, some of which are as political conditions, economic criteria, administrative competences of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, harmonisation of legislation. What we normally think in HSP, that when we pass all these laws, which have the European Union, and have those parts in every law that should be written and which should be valid until the moment Croatia enters the European Union and, of course, the main lion's part that would apply to the period when Croatia becomes a member of the European Union. Because despite the optimistic name of this programme, this still comes down to the realisation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement that Croatia has brought to a very strange position at the moment, which is the fact that we are trying in haste, as far as possible, to work hard and practically adapting the work of the Croatian Parliament, to adopt laws that go in line with European legislation, and that at the same time we have a situation that even three members of the European Union have not yet ratified in their parliaments a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, of which at least two of them do so for their purely national interests and political reasons known to them. That is why the big general question, I would say, is how we will get out of this one maze, with all the efforts we all, all of us, would say, all the parties and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to remove these certain political conditions. The question is, we talked about migration policy a little while ago. However, not much, but it is part of the obligations Croatia has regarding the accession agreement. There are a whole series of other issues, problems that remain open all the time, which we will try to regulate legally in advance, and on the other hand, the great problem of ratification of the accession agreement into three European, EU members who are practically bringing us this position a very complex, very, very, I would say, short-lived room where we are today. So it's going, I say, and it's just a matter of the purpose of the haste that we're doing with it. Because it can happen to us that we fully comply with the full legislation that in many elements, at the moment they are very much in line with both the Croatian interests and the Croatian needs and the realities, and that regardless of what we do in the direction of harmonisation of the legislation, that we and from the 6th month, which is taken as one, let a line when we should get a possible final answer from the European Commission, we do not get a positive view of this AVI and what we will do then. That's why we hold that in every law or in most of these laws, especially those that are sensitive to... Croatia and for the realities in which we live, have these transitional provisions on whether these laws would also come into force, especially those directly related to the standard of people and to some similar laws that we will talk about when the law comes to the agenda. [[You don't understand.]] And we also saw that they had just, you mentioned a little while ago, Madam Minister, and this problem with the Media Act. Such laws can certainly happen even more. And all of this should be taken into account when we discuss and adopt all these laws in this House. Of course, we support this harmonisation, we will support all of this, but we would like to bring a little bit of this into account, because otherwise, the entry into the European Union as we all know it, is filled with a lot of problems and with a lot of requests that are ahead of us, and many of us do not have answers, and not even roughly, and especially with regard to these political conditions that are being put before us, and some of us can't even be seen as a country or much, nor influence. In that name, we as a club will also support the proposal for a coordination plan. Of course, the National Programme because we also joined as a party when a resolution on Croatia's accession to the European Union was adopted in the last term of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2114	Thank you, Mr. Dwarf. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected representative of Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2115	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The process of approaching Croatia's membership in the European Union is in any case one of the most comprehensive processes in which the Croatian state, Croatian institutions, has embarked. The national programme of Croatia's accession to the European Union is a guide, i.e. better say a mandatory guide on this path towards the European Union. Therefore, the SDP Club welcomes the importance and speed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given to defining the next steps towards Croatia's accession to the European Union, as it has already adopted the National Programme for Croatia's accession to the European Union at its 2nd session. Of course, it was so much easier that the previous government left a good foundation that allowed for a continuation, an uninterrupted continuation of all activities on, in the process. However, fortunately in this process there is no room or need for party competitions, there is no need to prove who has made more who has made less on the approach of Croatia to the European Union, who is against, who is in favour. This process, it's not necessary for at least two reasons. We are all witnessing the existence of a parliamentary consensus, a consensus of December 2002 parliamentary political parties, which basically requires the rapid and joint synergy of all political factors in Croatia to bring Croatia closer to the European Union. On the other hand, no party will ultimately be responsible for achieving this final goal of joining the European Union, no single Croatian state institution will be responsible. It will only be possible to achieve this if we can come up with a synergy effect together, the effect of action towards achieving the ultimate goal. The measure of this success will actually be Croatian citizens, will be level of consciousness and acceptance, understanding of the process and the results of the process by Croatian citizens, their ability and willingness to accept standards of European behaviour, European action. It would start with the title, the title of a large document that is only an integral part of the SDP club, meaning the National Accession Programme, to join the Croatian European Union. So it is a plan to join the European Union, as the title speaks. However, this title would be appropriate for the entry into force of relations with the European Union which was valid until the end or until 2003, because only accession means, an association with the European Union, with the members of the European Union has already been established by signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement whose first article speaks this Agreement establishes an association between the Republic of Croatia and the Member States of the European Union. We see from the programme itself and the presentations of Ms. Minister that the National Programme for 2004 is already in areas that are not contractually bound and for which there is no contractual obligation of the Republic of Croatia and of the accession agreement itself. So, we've practically consumed the relations of associated membership and this is about something that goes one step further, which goes one step further than just the first formal degree of associated membership. This is also about the very clearly expressed will of the Croatian institutions, Croatian society, Croatian citizens to take Croatia on the path of joining the European Union, which is why I don't think we should be modest or falsely modest and be afraid that we do not know what anger or any other feelings in Brussels, among the members of the European Union, and we should not only limit ourselves to the European Union accession plan, because we are basically an associated member and I think that we should change our name to the National Programme for the accession of the European Union or to the National Programme for the adoption of the legal property of the European Union. Another reference to the content of the National Programme concerns its contribution to the calculation in advance, an attempt to calculate the budgetary effects of all these legal changes required and in the plan that the Croatian Parliament will adopt. In fact, one of the objectives of the national programme is to try before the adoption of the budget for each year to determine in advance how much the legislative proposal requires the funds, how much it costs and the budget, primarily the budget. The partial attempts of such budgets by the authorities of the state administration were made in this national programme, we argue that already in the 6 month review, try to go further, try to go in more detail, try to go in the direction that, indeed, when the 2005 budget was adopted, the National Programme gave a very clear basis for introducing the budget as a cost of bringing Croatia closer to the European Union. The third review of the implementation plan is advocating an even more ambitious programme of the work of this Parliament. This Assembly is able and more to do than to pass 37 laws that actually stem from the implementation plan for this year, this Assembly has been able to pass over 200 laws in some years, so that if out of these 200 only 37 refers to Croatia's accession to the European Union, it is certain that there is room for our more active role and for taking over and responsible roles of the Parliament in this process. Before Croatia, countries that had come this way to membership in the European Union had to be harmonised in their process of harmonising national legislation in the rule of between 400 and 700 laws in order to get closer to the acquis of the European Union. By the end of 2003, Croatia has adopted 116 laws in the Croatian Parliament to bring legislation into line, if we add these 37 laws for 2004, so that almost 250 laws should be passed in 2005 and 2006 if we want to, and I think we are able to say that at the end of 2006, Croatia is ready for membership in the European Union, Croatia has harmonised its legislation with the legal property of the Euorbian Union. Of course, in 2004, it may not be a year of too much legislative activity, the minister has already highlighted 200 sublaws the government will do, so in 2004, the year of implementation of what was done on the legislative plan last year, and much has been done and this is all expensive to justify that 37 laws may not be so small. However, however, the dynamics of alignment in this year's year of the 37 laws, 30 scheduled for the second half, just 7 for the first term, seem to me to have a real space for the authorities of the state administration to engage the Croatian Parliament more in their legislative work. This will also help the Parliament to contribute and strengthen its role and contribute to the accession of Croatia to the European Union. Finally, the SDP Club proposes that in the revision of the National Programme, which will be done in June of this year, three things be done to change the name of the national programme, to strengthen the activity and methodology of calculating the budgetary effects of the change of legislation that is expected to dynamic legislative activity in this and the next two years until the end of the process of harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the European acquis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2116	I thank the MP Mimica and, on behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected representative, Neven Jurica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2117	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I would like to welcome the efforts of the Ministry of European Integration to draft this draft law, this proposal for a plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia 2004 with the addition of the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union for 2004. This Plan shows the European Integration Ministry's efforts to make such a significant effort to develop a plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line for 2004 as soon as possible, from the moment of appointment or election of the new Government of the Republic of Croatia, what my predecessor was saying to the national programme on the road to European integration and towards our integration into the European Union. As a second point, this shows exactly this short period of time and effort made thus shows the full coordination of all the authorities of the state administration and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which in any case guarantees the effectiveness of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of all the bodies of the state administration under this Government of the Republic of Croatia. I agree that there is no need to compete on who is more and who has made less in the previous government or who will do more in this government, but it is not possible to pass the fact that it gives special light to the direction and take the efforts of the current Government of the Republic of Croatia to take with full capacity and in all segments of politics and legislation precisely access to this strategic goal of Croatia, which is to obtain an acquis communautaire and obtain candidate status in June of this year, for... membership in the European Union or obtaining the final status of the candidate of the Republic of Croatia for membership in the European Union. Advocacy for an even more ambitious programme is commendable and the HDZ Club believes that the ambition of this government will bear fruit, but also in this plan is shown which was made within a month, that, which was made consciously, which was made competently, which was created and adopted, demonstrates the ambition of this government in this strategic work for the Republic of Croatia, the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2118	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2119	A fellow Jurica says this is a measure of the effectiveness of this government because, within a short time, it has developed this programme that we are discussing today and we will adopt. It is incorrect that in a short time the government, this government made it because this programme plan was almost entirely developed. There is also Mrs. Obradovic, who can also confirm it, the minister, former Minister Mimica. That's not the way to discuss it. The effectiveness of this government will be seen, of course, throughout the entire term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2120	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2121	Mr. President, Madam Minister, fellow MPs just a few brief notes. First of all, it is quite certain that the ministry, headed by the minister, will have the full support of all MPs in achieving national interest. It is an accession to the European Union. In this regard, I would note that this National Programme, regardless of whether it occurred before or now and whether a large, comprehensive document was being supplemented to warn me that there are also laws on the list of legislative activities that have so-called laws. The legal gain has nothing to do with it. For example, the Criminal Procedure Act is not part of this joint project in the European Union. Of course, it is in our interest that all our actions and all our laws are high levels, and then we can see something like this as an extended project, an extended project of harmonisation of legislation. So my recommendation would be to clean up, clean up the project and concentrate on what really is part of the legal gains in a narrow sense. Another point I would like to point out is that this acquis so-called changes and that the European Union is constantly adopting different directives and other acts to which our legislation will have to be dealt with. Therefore, and what we may feel that we have finished one day can prove that we have not done so, and that is why it will be necessary to monitor and coordinate and those laws that, yes, I can see that you are already aware of, so perhaps this note is excessive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2122	Thank you very much. Does the Minister want to give a final review? Here you go. Minister of European Integration.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2123	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So briefly in a few words, let me refer to all these remarks. As regards the opinion of the Committee on European Integration, I must point out that in the middle of the year there will certainly be a revision of the National Programme, probably in light of the partnership we expect to get, and in this context we can also consider changing the name of the National Programme. As regards the faster implementation of the legislative harmonisation plan, which is also the objection of the Committee on European Integration and the SDP Representatives' Club, for our part, we can propose that this programme of legislative measures, which are foreseen for 2005, be included in this plan as measures to be discussed by the Government, so that the legislative measures programme for 2004 will be transferred to the Croatian Parliament, and I also believe that further legislative measures will be included in further harmonisation and revision of the mid-year plan. We also accept the proposal of the Constitution Committee. Mr. Honorable Representative Anto Djapic. So I must say, I'm sorry that it's been a short time, that you haven't been able to read the whole program. I hope that and, that you will still succeed because the text of the program has been delivered to distinguished representatives for introduction. It will also be available to Croatian, Croatian citizens, the public. It will be posted on our website, Ministry of European Integration. It will also be printed so that any citizen of the Republic of Croatia will be able to obtain a copy of the national programme. It will be translated normally into English and delivered to the European Commission as well. As regards the provisions that point to the transitional period of your objection, Mr. MP, I would like to remind you that, from 10 months 2002 to 2002, a declaration of compliance has been delivered to the Parliament which is just pointing to this transitional period and in parallel, the transitional deadlines set out in each paragraph of the law are given. I also thank Mr. Honored Representative Mr. Neven Mimica for his support on behalf of the SDP Club. For my part, I also acknowledge and welcome the good background that the previous Government has put in relations with the European Union as well as, as regards this national programme for 2004 which we are now adopting. I also welcome that this is not about party competitions, that this is our common goal, and that is why I am encouraged by the views of the representatives and the Croatian Parliament that we will all work together on these issues of accession and ultimately on membership in the European Union. Again, as regards the level of consciousness, we intend to continue to inform citizens not only about this national programme, but also in the framework of the work of the Ministry of European Integration on all issues that are of interest to Croatian citizens and all the problems they are concerned about entering the European Union, and in this regard we will also adapt our communication strategy, which is one of the chapters of this national programme. So, the same thing as advocating an even more ambitious programme in addition to this, along with these proposals for 2005 measures to be classified for 2004. However, I would also like to warn that the point is not to build up the law, that it is not the point in quantity but in quality, that the texts are normally well processed in the Croatian Parliament and that there is one additional professional dialogue of the Parliament with the executive authority in the adoption of all these laws, especially in the context of negotiations when they start one day with the European Union. I thank the distinguished representative, Neven Jurica, for the same position as the HDZ Club and also for supporting the respected representative Josipovic. I would like to consider his remarks regarding legal property, or some law, not to enter into part-time legal property. It should be noted that there are a number of conventions which the EU, a member and which are considered “Acqui Community”, which relate to these laws that are in the programme, and also to the fact that “Acqui” or legal gain is constantly growing. The European Integration Ministry has that fact in mind, and this is exactly being monitored and new measures are constantly being taken to bring legislation into line. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2124	I thank the Minister of European Integration. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the proposal for a conclusion tomorrow. Plan for harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia – 2004 — add to the national programme of the Republic of Croatia for accession to the European Union. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on European Integration, I am voting on the next conclusion as a home working body. The Plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the 2004 acquis communautaire and the national programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union in 2004 is hereby adopted. Under two, it is proposed to implement the legislative harmonisation plan more quickly in order to bring more legislative proposals in line with the legal acquis of the European Union in 2004. Who is the conclusion on this proposal? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that with 128 votes for, unanimity, the above conclusion is proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2127	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen. I won't be long, but I think we should say the next thing. When it comes to these regulations that we have noticed, that's the big problem when the government has such power, so regulations essentially change the essence of the law. and if these regulations are carefully read by the Government, which means the former Government has not adopted in the past period, we come to the court that certain regulations have changed the essence of the law. Which, in my opinion, is legally inadmissible and which, legally in such situations, can cause inconceivable legal consequences. Namely, this would not have all happened if the Croatian Parliament's last meeting had accepted the Croatian party's proposal of law and passed the Law on the transfer of power. Then would what the Government as a technical government mean can be correctly regulated in such variants. I can never think of a government that has only technical character to come in to essentially change things. One part of these regulations has, had an electoral character that's the part with the flat-rate taxation of 20,000 people who are involved in the trade as an additional activity, so they wanted to get rid of it. The second part, if you see communications, other things, essentially changes. The third part is tied to that third network that was assigned, and it was canceled. And the prime minister himself told us that other things were done during this one period. and for this reason, I appeal first of all, to finally pass the Law on the transfer of power as one essential regulation, and that when we give the Government the opportunity to adopt regulations instead of this body some regulation, to determine exactly how and how, but in no way can it happen that the fundamental principles of the law adopted in the Croatian Parliament and fundamentally change so that it may want to cover something that has been made, in order to do something for pre-election purposes, because I do not think that in any other legal system it is legally permitted. Here's my appeal, I don't think there's any point in discussing it, it's already been brought. But in the future, something like this isn't happening anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-29-0.u2128	I thank the honourable representative Peri Kovčević. And now just to go back to, to fill in some more individuals between the committees and the delegations, we appoint certain committees. Report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted on the basis of legal authority. Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that the report was accepted by 121 votes for and 7 abstentions.
