ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u384	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am opening the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister, Mr Ivo Sanader, to the vice-president and present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This session also begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure, begins on 15 January and ends on 15 July. I invite you to pay our respects at the beginning of the session to the Homeland by performing the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem. - The performance of the Anthem "Beautiful Our Homeland" - Ladies and Gentlemen Representatives! I call upon you to honor the fallen Croatian defenders and all civilian victims of the war with a moment of silence. - A moment of silence - May their glory be eternal and thank you! You received the minutes of the 1st and 2nd session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Any objections to the records? I find that there is no, that we have adopted the minutes of the 1st and 2nd sessions in the text as you have received them. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Damir Sesvecan to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u385	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, members of the government, respected colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 3rd session held on 26 January 2004 the notice of the Croatian People's Party, which was informed by the President of the Croatian Parliament on the name of the deputy representative who will, in accordance with Article 12(1). Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, "National Journal" No. 69/03, the consolidated text, shall act as a representative during the term of office of the elected representative, who is now unable to act because of his or her conduct incompatible with Article 9(2) of the Law. According to the Croatian People's Party, it has proposed that the parliamentary mandate begin to act as Mr Branko Vojnovic, deputy MPs running for the 10th election unit as candidate on the Croatian People's Party list instead of representatives of Jaksa Marastovic. The mandate-immunity committee found that the decision on the stay of the representative's mandate was reached at the 1st session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, and was adopted by the Croatian Parliament at a constitutive session held on 22 December 2003. The commission also found that the conditions laid down by law for the start of the parliamentary mandate of Deputy Representative Branko Vojnovic were met. Following the debate, the mandate-immunity report unanimously proposed that the Croatian Parliament take the next Decision to initiate the behaviour of the pro-prosecutor's deputy representative. A representative's office instead of a representative of Jaksa Marstovic, who began the stay of the parliamentary term on 22 December 2003 in accordance with Article 9(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on 27 January 2004, starts acting as deputy MP Branko Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u386	I thank the President of the Committee. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Decision in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that a decision has been reached unanimously. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u387	The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament also discussed at the 3rd session held on 26 January 2004 a written request for the rest of the parliamentary term, which is in accordance with Article 14. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament was submitted by Velimir Kvesic, an MP at the Croatian Parliament by act of 23 December 2003. As Mr Kvesic was elected representative as candidate on the Croatian Party of Rights list in the 6th Election Unit, the Croatian Party is right in accordance with Article 12(1). The law ordered Mr. Pejo Trčević to act as deputy representative in that election unit instead of representative Velimir Kvesic. The commission found that the law lays down the conditions for the start of the stay of Velimir Kvesic's representative mandate and the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy, Peja Trječević. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the stay of the parliamentary mandate and the start of the conduct of the parliamentary office of the deputy representative, which states that on 23 December 2003, the stay of the representative's mandate of Mr Velimir Kvesic began and that the agent's duties was in accordance with Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament began acting on 27 January 2004 by Deputy Representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u388	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in favour of this decision? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that a decision has been reached unanimously. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u389	The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 3rd session held on 26 January 2004 the written request of Representative Branko Bačić of 9 January 2004 informing the Commission that he had been appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development on 5 January 2004 and that, in accordance with Article 14. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament "National Journal" No. 69/03. The consolidated text shall put a parliamentary term of office at rest. As Mr Bacic was elected representative as a candidate for the Croatian Democratic Union in the Xth Election Unit, the Croatian Democratic Community has determined, in accordance with Article 12(1) of the Law, that Mr Frano Matušić as deputy representative in that election unit, to start acting as representative instead of representative Branko Bačić. The commission found that the conditions for the start of the term of office of Mr. Branko Bačić and the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy, Frana Matušić, were laid down by law. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the stay of the parliamentary mandate and the start of the conduct of the parliamentary office of the deputy representative, which states that on 5 January 2004, it had begun the rest of the parliamentary mandate of Representative Branko Bačić and that the parliamentary duty was in accordance with Article 9(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament began acting on 27 January 2004 by Deputy Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u390	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in favour of this decision? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that a decision has been reached unanimously. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u391	The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament also discussed at the 3rd session held on 26 January 2004 the written request of MP Ivica Buconjic of 13 January 2004 informing the commission that he had been appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior on 5 January 2004 and that, in accordance with Article 14. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament puts the parliamentary mandate in a standstill. As Mr Buconjic was elected representative as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list in IV. the election unit The Croatian Democratic Community is in accordance with Article 12(1). The law decreed that Mrs Nevenka Majdenic, as deputy representative in that election unit, would start acting as a representative instead of Ivica Buconjic's representative. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of the stay of Ivica Buconjic's parliamentary mandate as well as the conditions for the start of acting as his deputy deputy, Nevenka Majdenic. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the stay of the parliamentary mandate and the start of the conduct of the deputy representative's office, which states that on 5 January 2004, it had begun the stay of MP Ivica Buconjic's term of office and that the parliamentary duty was in accordance with Article 9(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 27 January 2004 began acting as deputy representative of Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u392	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the report. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in accordance with the Commission's proposal. Who's in favour of this decision? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that a decision has been reached unanimously. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u393	At its 3rd session on 26 January 2004, the mandate-immunity committee discussed the written request of Dr Nevia Šetić's representative from 13 January 2004, which informed the commission that he had been appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports on 5 January 2004, and that, in accordance with Article 14. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament puts the parliamentary mandate in a standstill. As Mr. Šetic was elected representative as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Union in VIII. In accordance with Article 12(1) of the Law, the Croatian Democratic Community has designated Mr Milan Meden as deputy representative in that election unit to act as representative instead of representative of Dr Nevia Šetic. The commission found that the law lays down the conditions for the commencement of Dr Nevio Šetić's representative mandate and the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy, Milan Meden, as well. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the stay of the parliamentary mandate and the start of the conduct of the parliamentary office of the deputy representative, which determines that on 5 January 2004, the term of office of legislator Dr. Nevij Šetić and that the agent's duty is in accordance with Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 27 January 2004 began acting as Deputy Representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u394	Thank you. Injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u395	Dear Mr. President, today's session has been started in a very unusual way. We consume the agenda before the current clock. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of today's session should begin with the current morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u396	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u397	Mr. President, I really have to admit that this is the first session I attend that started with no agenda. Therefore, we have not established the agenda at all, in breach of Article 204(1). The Rules of Procedure, and what I actually answered, I kept it quiet on behalf of the club, thinking that there's one confusion, etc., so there's no point in us running around about it. However, it is indeed that we will now spend the time of the current morning at least 1/4 of that time for the current morning, and today the MPs have prepared to ask the government questions. It is therefore clear from the Rules of Procedure that the agenda should first be established under Article 204. After that, move to the current morning and only then start with the working part of the session according to the established agenda. We haven't even established the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u398	Thank you very much. According to the usual standard practice, this is as one zero point because five MPs went to other duties, seven, a total of seven so that as a zero point according to the usual practice for the sake of that one gap in the Rules of Procedure in this way it was only possible to resolve these advocates who come instead of those who put a mandate in a standstill to allow them to participate in the debate. If you're not satisfied with my 204 explanation. I will refer this proposal to the Constitution Committee to give its opinion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Gentlemen, no further discussion. Excuse me. No further discussion. It will resolve, heading towards the Committee on the Constitution which will give its opinion and opinion since you... In the name of the club, please welcome Mr. Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u399	Thank you very much. I said that we will not split, nor are we now interested in stretching around the Rules of Procedure, but simply this is what we have received a draft agenda in which the 1st point - Selection, appointments and resolutions. So it's no zero. But that's not the point. I answered on behalf of the club to ask you to extend the current morning for this time that we will spend around the agenda point that has not been established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u400	Thank you very much. Here you go, buddy Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u401	Yes, I would further like to clarify the provision of Article 180 to which I am calling, which says that the current morning contains at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. So before we move to point one. If this is point 1 or point 0, or whatever we want to call it, the current morning should be before that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u402	Thank you very much. That's what I said we'll give to the Constitution Committee. Here you go. Here you go, fellow Holy One.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u403	The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament also discussed at the 3rd session held on 26 January 2004 the written request of Representative Vladimir Vrankovic of 13 January 2004 informing the Commission that he had been appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship on 5 January 2004 and was in accordance with Article 14. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament puts the parliamentary mandate in a standstill. As Mr Vrankovic was elected representative as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Union in VIII. In accordance with Article 12(1) of the Law, the Croatian Democratic Community has designated Ms Irena Ahel as deputy representative in that election unit to act as representative instead of representative Vladimir Vrankovic. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of the stay of Vladimir Vrankovic's representative mandate as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy deputy, Irene Ahel. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of a decision on the stay of the parliamentary mandate and the start of the conduct of the deputy representative's office, which states that on 5 January 2004, it had begun the rest of the parliamentary mandate of Representative Vladimir Vrankovic and that the agent's duties were in accordance with Article 9(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 27 January 2004 began acting as Deputy Representative Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u404	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the report. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in accordance with the Commission's proposal. Who's in favour of this decision? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that a decision has been reached unanimously. I do not think we have voted in favour of this comment on the Commission's proposal for a decision on the parliamentary mandate of Mr Milan Meden, so I am putting that decision to the vote. Who's in favour of that decision? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you, I'd like to make a unanimous decision. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u405	The latest report on the mandate of the Immunity Commission discussed at the 3rd session held on 26 January 2004, a written request for the rest of the parliamentary term, in accordance with Article 14. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament was submitted by Dubravka Shuica, president of the Croatian Parliament, to the Croatian Parliament by an act of 23 January 2003. As Mrs Shuisa was elected representative as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Union list in the 10th Election Unit, the Croatian Democratic Community is sucalous to Article 12(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law decreed that Ms. Lucia Chikesh, as deputy representative of that constituency, began to act as representative instead of representative of Dubravka Shuica. The Commissioner has established that the conditions for the start of the stay of Dubravka Shuice's representative mandate and the conditions for the start of the conduct of the agent's duties and of her deputy, Lucija Cikeš, have been laid down by law. In accordance with the said mandated immunity commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the stay of the parliamentary mandate and the start of the conduct of the deputy deputy. Which determines that it is on 27 January 2004. The term of office of representative Dubravka Shuice began in the year and was in accordance with Article 9(2) of the Rules of Procedure. On 27 January 2004, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament began to act as Deputy Representative Lucija Cikeš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u406	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the report. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in accordance with the Commission's proposal. Who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that a decision has been made unanimously. I thank the President of the Commission. In accordance with Article 7. The Rules of Procedures of MPs and MPs Irena Ahel, Lucija Cikes, Nevenka Majdanic, Frane Matošić, Milan Meden, Branko Vojovic, and Pejo Trčević will swear an oath. A given way is sworn to read the text of the oath by the President of the House and then by a representative or representative after being called up and saying the oath. I'll read the text of the oath. I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia. In order to make a name known, the United States would call on MPs and MPs to make an oath. Irene Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u407	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u408	Thank you. Lucia Chickesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u409	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u410	Thank you. Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u411	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u412	Thank you. Fran Matosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u413	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u414	Thank you. Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u415	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u416	Thank you. Branko Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u417	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u418	Thank you. They're singing "The Merchants."
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u419	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u420	Thank you. Congratulations to the MPs and MPs on their sworn oath, and I wish them success in giving honorary and responsible representation duties. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you have a final draft agenda. In the final draft agenda, I have set up 8 new points and this is the proposal for a decision to maintain a multilateral military exercise Adriatic Fiblex 0402. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Suspension with a Final Proposal for the Law. Emergency procedure. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on administrative fees with a final draft law, an emergency procedure. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families with a final draft law, an emergency procedure. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Family Law with a final draft law, an emergency procedure. Proposal for a law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on cooperation in military areas of training of technology and science with the final draft law, an emergency procedure. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a contract on the establishment and development of an international centre for the development of migration policy with a final proposal, an emergency procedure. And the Statute of the Agency for the Protection of Competition Confirmation. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure lays down that the proposal to adopt an emergency procedure should be decided on. The final draft agenda under points 6 and 7 and paragraphs 9 to 14 shall state the laws for which the adoption of an emergency procedure is proposed. That's it. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the laws on the obligations and rights of government officials. Proposal for a law supplementing the laws on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the laws on administrative fees. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Family Law, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Turkey on cooperation in military areas, training of techniques and sciences and the Proposal for a Law confirming the Treaty establishing and operating the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy. Do any of the MPs and advocates have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? Representative of the Honorable Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u422	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. It is difficult to decide on this emergency procedure from point 9 below, for the simple reason that we received this legislative proposal only yesterday. However, the IDS Club is against the emergency procedure of the draft law supplementing the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials in the Republic of Croatia. First, it simply offends the lack of effort to explain the need for an emergency procedure. All of us here know that an emergency law can only be passed or proposed if justified state reasons so require. And what reasons did the legislator of the law run? In the light of the legislative proposal, he states that, I quote: that the adoption of this law is related to the new budget year, i.e. the adoption of the State Budget Act for 2004, so this law should therefore be adopted by an urgent procedure, and that is all. So without explanation, an emergency procedure is required, and the point is, in fact, the absence of will to even the judges about receiving from 0.5% per year of internships with all others who were otherwise officials, was left tied to the state budget. That's actually the point. So it's about 35 to 40 million kuna. If we keep in mind the fact that the budget for this year will certainly be 5 billion kunas higher than last year, some “holes” may find these 30 or 35 million kunas in some sub-quota. The emergency procedure for us at the IDS club is an unnecessary team more than the Croatian Parliament or the Croatian Parliament has the conclusion that the judicial staff of 1.4 of this year are recognised as an addition to the internship, per year of internship. In particular, in the past term, this was represented by the current government, so the collegiation of Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament should remove the emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u423	Thank you very much. We're going to a plea. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials? Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? I find that, with 84 votes for and 53 against the agenda, this proposal, the final draft of the law, was included in the emergency procedure. Secondly, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law supplementing the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials where is the opposition of the IDS Club? Thank you. Against? I find that, with 73 votes for and 64 against the agenda, this proposal, the final draft of the law, was included in the emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts? Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that with 116 votes for and 21 against the agenda, this final draft of the law was included in the emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes? Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that with 118 votes in favour and 19 against an emergency procedure, this final draft of the law has been included in the agenda. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families? Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that with 113 votes for and 24 against the agenda, the final proposal of this Act is urgent. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Family Law Supplements. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you, I find that with 92 votes in favour and 43 against this final bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law attesting the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on cooperation in military areas of training, technology and science. Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that with 132 votes in favour and 5 against this final bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is responsible for the implementation of the Emergency Procedure for the adoption of the Act on Confirmation of the Treaty on the Establishment and Labour of the International Centre for the Development of Immigration Policy. Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that with 126 votes for and 11 against an emergency procedure, this final draft of the law is included in the agenda. It is not an objection within the meaning of Article 203(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, namely the written objection to the proposed agenda, may only be submitted if the President of the Croatian Parliament has not included in the Proposal for a Agenda for the subject referred to in the procedure prescribed by this Rules of Procedure, and the deadlines set out in paragraph 2 of this Article, 30 days when it comes to the draft law, and 15 days when it comes to the final draft law or other act. The Croatian party's club of representatives has asked for two points to be included in the agenda and this is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duty and the proposal for a law on the transfer of power. Those two laws were submitted in the parliamentary procedure on 23 January of this year, and in accordance with Article 203(2), they will be included in the agenda when business assumptions are met. In addition, at an extended session of the Assembly's presidency with the presidents of all clubs, it has been agreed that these two points are listed in the agenda of the next session of the Parliament. Representative Slaven Letica sent a letter on 16 January asking for the agenda of the session to be placed on the item Report of the Croatian National Bank on the external debt of the Republic of Croatia and the strategy and policy of borrowing and external debt management for the period 2004 to 2010. As the representative did not deliver the relevant material for the debate on the subject, he points out that I am obliged to warn the representatives as a basis for the discussion of the delivery of Bilten of the Croatian National Bank number 88, that only the point for which the materials of the authorised applicants were delivered can be classified in the agenda of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. There have been no written objections to the agenda that I have proposed with the call for a session, and this agenda is in accordance with Article 203(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Objection can now be made only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. The proposal for a decision to reflect the multilateral military exercise "Adriatic Philblex 04-2 engineerex" was included under point 18. Confirmation of the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency was included. Any of the MPs object to including any of these two points in the agenda? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda shall be determined in accordance with Article 205, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure. I should be the one to publish the established agenda now. I suggest that if you agree that I am not reading the full agenda, I should just announce that the agenda has been established as suggested in the final draft agenda. Thank you for understanding. Tomorrow we would be going towards the agenda with the proposal for a joint discussion of points 3, 4 and 5 and further as follows. I would now ask my colleagues and colleagues to put one item on the agenda and it was created as a result of a joint proposal from the Clubs of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Union, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Social Liberal Party and the Democratic Centre, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Pensions, the Club of Representatives of the Serbian Democratic Independent Party and the Club of Representatives of the National Minorities to put the agenda of the Proposal for a Point Selection of the Croatian Parliament, the proposal of these 5 clubs, to elect Ms. Djurdja Adlesic as Vice-President. I'm asking you to put it on the agenda, we're not going to discuss it today, we're just going to put it on the table. Who's to put this point in the agenda? Thank you very much. Against? I find that this item is included in the agenda with 91 votes for, without votes against or abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u426	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues of MPs and MPs, I would like to ask Mrs. Jadranki Kosor a question. This is how, since your appointment in your performances, you have never mentioned civilian disabled people, so you have mostly touched the disabled Homeland War, so family, children defenders, and in any of your appearances I have not heard you talk about civilian disabled people who unfortunately have over 400 thousand in Croatia. So I'm curious if you didn't mention what would happen to equating the rights of all persons with disabilities regardless of the way and the kind of suffering, so whether or not one more let's say minority policy, and to the detriment of the majority. Then will you, will you represent the anti-discrimination relationship as Minister of the Resort Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u427	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u428	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Madam Representative Škulić. You probably haven't had full insight into what I've been saying since I was Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. So the media probably didn't transfer everything. I did mention it, of course, because it's partly touching this particular resistor whose forehead I am, and all the disabled. So not only the disabled from the Homeland War, but all the other people with disabilities. As I believe you well know, that's how we met anyway, and I was also in charge of the rights of all disabled persons from 1995 to 2000, and now that I was an opposition representative. So I don't think I can be objected to by any discriminatory relationship. However, I will try precisely in my ministry to take care of the family and, of course, families in which they are disabled, and I also predict that in this sector intergenerational solidarity one specific area is precisely dedicated to the expansion of consciousness or to the sensitisation of the general public, of course with concrete measures towards disabled persons. And here's to the end recently, and Mr. Prime Minister and I, the vice president, have also received the Association of Civil Victims and Homeland War and have just discussed this problem so that I invite you to come and meet us at a meeting at the Ministry and suggest your ideas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u429	Thank you very much, I'll look, I'm not completely satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u430	Thank you very much. Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u431	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen. Every ministry in the government on the basis of the tasks it performs has its duty, obligations and responsibilities. One of the main ministries of this country, i.e. the Government is the Ministry of Interior for several reasons, and especially the security of both states and individuals. She also said "what is a soldier in war, it is a policeman in peace". So that's why my first parliamentary question in this term is, I'm asking you, Mr. Minister of the Interior, Mlinaric, and the following. The home press has often written about the reorganisation of the Ministry of the Interior to which the new government will return to the old structure? Is there any truth in such inscriptions, Mr. Minister? What kind of organisational model will this government, or you, use at the time of your term of office, at the Ministry of Interior?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u432	Thank you very much. Minister Mlinaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u433	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Representative. Yes, recently there have been frequent reports in the press on the reorganisation of the Ministry of the Interior. Priced, estimating the threat of the rise of global terrorism and economic crime, we have made a single amendment at the Ministry of the Interior that we have raised the Office for the Security of Persons and Space to the level of administration and appointed the assistant minister for this place. It's the only change in the interior ministry. Everything else will stay the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u434	Thank you very much. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u435	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I have a question for the Minister of Health and Social Welfare Andrew Hebrang. Mr. Minister, there are numerous speculations in the public about the future of the procurement tender that you temporarily suspended. What do you intend to do with that supply of equipment?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u436	Thank you very much. Minister of Health Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u437	... Madam MPs. [[You can't hear the speaker away from the microphone.]] I stopped only those competitions I found, and they were not in accordance with existing regulations. In fact, it is the tender of 88 million kuna for which the expenditure item in the budget was not foreseen. Therefore, the contest will be stopped until the moment we can have... for the second quarter of this year. [[You can't hear the speaker away from the microphone.]] Therefore, there is no permanent suspension of the tender, or any speculation in the media, permanent suspension of any investment. Only those planned, signed and agreed commitments will be aligned with the budget that we bring for the second, third and fourth quarter. And I assure you, there is absolutely no danger of stopping any project that has been signed so far even though it has been signed before, and it goes to the burden of the current budget. We'll just have to, of course, rebalance and reorganize our health care plans for this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u438	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u439	Thank you. Dear Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u440	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen. He would ask a question for the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. I think there's Mr. Nevio Zetic. What is really the situation with the reform of Croatian education, and what will the new Croatian government do about it? I'd like you to explain a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u441	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. I would like to say that the reform of Croatian education as it was drawn earlier has already been challenged in this House, so that such a reform will be nothing and our Ministry of Science, Education and Sports will make changes in Croatian education from within and far in a more balanced direction. In any case, we will work to improve the quality of education and above all the position of teachers, teachers and teachers. We will also first and foremost make new catalogues of knowledge and changes in the programme in areas and cases, and in any case we will encourage a broad expert debate and seek a broad expert consensus on these changes, as it is a very sensitive and important system for the Republic of Croatia. And one more thing, we will use it and try to bring Croatia's education closer to European experience as soon as possible and build on the knowledge that European achievements are compatible with Croatian education.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u442	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u443	Thank you. Honorable representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u444	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen. With education and job selection, one of the most important issues in Croatian society is sure to enter and resolve the housing issue. I therefore ask the question to the Minister for Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, Ms. Marina Matulović-Dropulić. Will the project of encouraging housing continue with what dynamics, including for scientific recruits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u445	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. And in the last session of the Parliament, I was one of those who fought for the greatest construction and employment of our people, but also for the insurance of apartments for young people and all those who haven't solved their housing problem. Therefore, we continue with encouraging housing construction, but we will also prepare proposals for amending and supplementing the Law, which will also provide additional resources in the housing budget to allow young people to buy at other locations of the apartment, encourage market construction, but also enable credits to be obtained for the upgrade or upgrade of existing housing, i.e. their family facilities. As for the very encouraging housing, I have to say that in the last three months a billion and 700 million kuna have been agreed for encouraging housing with contractors. Whether such funds will be available in the budget and whether local self-government units will be able to monitor this very quickly we will give you a report. What's for sure is that we're going to change the way we work in the very encouraging apartment building. By virtue of the Law, the Agency for Legal Transport of Real estate should have done all the work. The Agency for the Legal Transport of Real Estate Agreement has checked all the work on the contracting of works on the negotiation of the project, the production of the project documentation to the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction. We won't work like that anymore. The Agency for Legal Transport of Real Estates will carry out all those tasks which the law has laid down. So, I'm asking you to wait for a full report, because I have to say that I am sorry even though we really encourage this construction and we think it's good to do this, but every day we get new data, and one more time we need to make a full report and then give this House a proposal to further build apartments that encourage construction, and what in a different way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u446	Mrs. Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u447	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm happy with the answer. and it is good that the possibility of housing will be expanded, not only by encouraging construction, but also by these favourable loans related to family upbuilding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u448	Thank you. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u449	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Government, honourable members of the government and colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer the question to the Minister of Health and Social Care Professor Andri Henbrang. I have recently witnessed your demands to the General Hospital of Bjelovar that the debts of the same be urgently shown. I am soon reading a statement from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute that they have no data on the debt of hospitals, and the former health minister says he is not responsible for the operations of hospitals. The health debt of the subjects is enormous. Examples in the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance over 3 billion kuna, in KBC Rebr 200 million kuna, Dubravi 124 million kuna, etc., not to mention. My question is: Is it true that you have not found the central records of all debts in health care, and is it possible that the responsibilities of supervision of financial operations of health institutions are both denied by the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Health Insurance Institute? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u450	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Representative. ... big public debates. [[speaks off, can't be heard]] It's two different concepts. The concept carried out by predecessors is a concept in which there is no control over the costs of health institutions, which is about 13 billion kuna in the state budget. In taking over the ministry, I didn't get a single sentence on the debt of the system, so the institution, in the system, has 162 institutions near 300 pharmacies. The Ministry of Health did not manage the supervision of financial operations, thus interpreting the Health Insurance Act. When I was marketing debts to subdue the balance in the system on the day I took over, and in order to be able to file an account at the end of the term, I asked the Croatian Health Insurance Office for the same information as the debts in the system. I received the answer that HZZO, the Croatian Health Insurance Office is not responsible for overseeing the financial operations of the system in part of their expenditures, but is obliged only to control whether the funds it has provided are spent on contracted health services. In other words, there was absolutely no financial supervision, no central record of the incomes and expenditures of these institutions. The interpretation of the law can be different. However, I am for the principle where all financial expenditure must be recorded in one place, because this is the first step towards rationalising the system and for the reasonable and rational spending of these funds intended for the treatment and health of our citizens. Since I couldn't find the data in HZZO or the Ministry, and I wanted to take over the total debt, I had to turn to every institution individually. It took about 10 days, and that's why the facility you're talking about has received such an inquiry. We asked each institution for the total debt, the debt and the cost specification. From HZZO we got a debt HZZO which is 3.5 billion kuna, from clinical hospitals long clinical hospitals which is a billion kuna, a billion and a half... I don't want to pick it up. [[You don't understand.]] The total debt when we summed up all the claims from Ved drugstores, all of the hospital's debts overcame claims on HZZO debt. Financial experts have reached the figure 7.3 billion kuna. and in order to come up with a total debt of health care to both institutions and debt to investment in construction and debt towards equipment investment, etc. We had to address the institutions individually. We will now set up a system in which all financial control will be in one place and where you will be immediately seen if there is a possible accidental spending of money or if there is any disturbance in the system that we can react in time. Of these 7.3 billion kunas, about a billion and a half have arrived, so over 120 days, and now we're in negotiations with the wholesalers to sort of cover it in order for the wholesalers to withdraw their lawsuits, over 40 lawsuits are brought to court with a motion to block hospital accounts. We will, of course, not allow it, but unfortunately from the budget for this year, we will have to allocate additional funds to settle that debt. So the debt will be settled, the system will be stabilized. We're not looking for anyone's responsibility because I see now that it's been a principle to spend a year in advance. So it's not just about the health care system, it's about the energy consumption, the 2004 funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u451	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u452	Thank you very much for this extensive response. It's obvious and inadmissible that the lack of financial supervision is so catastrophic that even hospitals that had limitations couldn't function because no one asked them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u453	Please, fellow Members, when you express your satisfaction or dissatisfaction by answering the parliamentary question to remain within the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u454	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u455	Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u456	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I'm going to break through the ice, so unlike my colleagues from HDZ, I'm going to ask the Prime Minister a question. Mr. Prime Minister, for 12 years in Croatia, there has been a Government Office for the implementation of a concession project with the former SFRY. How much has this office cost taxpayers or employees in that office over the past 12 years, and why and what benefit has Croatia benefited from this office? And why did Croatia not achieve its interests or withdraw its money like Slovenia in the process of succession with the former SFRY and do you intend to change something about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u457	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u458	Mr. President, Mr. Representative! First of all, I will say that I am not satisfied with the work of the Government Office for Succession and accordingly I fully support your question, and that will be another reason for us to speed up the decision we have already made regarding the full analysis of the work of the office. We have made the decision to make a complete analysis and not with the management of the office, with the head man and with the work of that office personally I was not satisfied and we will seek full review, full analysis and make appropriate decisions accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u459	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u460	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, I really hope that we will try to correct what has been lost over the past 12 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u461	Thank you. Honourable representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u462	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I'll ask my question to the Minister of Economy. Mr. Minister, tell us the real state of the state of supply. According to media reports, it would be concluded that you have found stockpiles completely empty. That's why the humanitarian action towards Iran could not be realised from stockpiles but was resolved in another way. It is also concluded that any elemental accident or emergency of another species would find us completely unprepared. Tell us the real situation and what you're going to do to get rid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u463	President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary Representative! It is true, and this is also the public - known fact that the situation in the goods supply is bad as far as the goods are loaded. In 2003, the Ministry of Economy sent a proposal to the government to consider the situation in stock stocks and to take concrete measures among other things in relation to the fill-in of supply supplies. The point did not come to the meeting of last government in 2003, although the advice of the Croatian Parliament at the 10th month of last 9.10 had its session, it also reached conclusions where it urgently asked the Croatian government to put that item on the agenda because of the alarming situation regarding the filling of the stock. Unfortunately, the Croatian government did not discuss this last year, and the new Croatian government on January 1st, 5th, this year had this report from half last year on the agenda, received this report and the Croatian government tasked the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship to prepare a full report on the state of supply by 31 January of this year and to propose measures that should be taken by the Croatian government to address the complete situation with the goods supply and, among other things, the issue of the fill-up of goods that we do not have at this point in stock.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u464	Satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u465	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u466	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Incentived by personal knowledge of this information published in "The Medical Journal" on 15 October last year during 2002. The health ministry conducted a survey of 120,000 anonymous patients treated in healthcare institutions on the quality of health care. The results of this survey were to serve as a quality indicator useful in the then started health care reform, i.e. the health system. It remains unclear why, given the funds invested, the methodologically well-complexed survey and the results that should have been forwarded from this, no results have ever been published to the professional public, primarily the Croatian Medical Assembly and neither the Croatian public. Therefore, my question is when will you publish these results, or use their value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u467	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. We've heard more than once about this survey that it's been held, and that's why I asked the Ministry for a survey to give me an insight. Indeed, huge money was spent, the survey included a large number of respondents, and I don't know why the data wasn't published. We will publish these data at the request of any institution or at the request of the public. And now I can only say two, three basics from that survey. First of all, the poll responded to a very small number of our insurance companies, only 18% sent the answers back. Why can't I explain it like that? Maybe somewhere in the methodology was a mistake. However, to the 105 thousand responses received, I can say that the satisfaction of the overall medical care of the 0-5 score range was 4.4, therefore, a very high assessment of satisfaction. Which is consistent and consistent with the surveys we conducted in 1993 and 95, 96. The satisfaction of the doctor's kindness is 4.3 in this range and in this survey the satisfaction of the courtesy of medical means 4.4, which is why the health care department really got a high passing grade and I don't know why these data weren't presented, I'm willing to substrate them to the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u468	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u469	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u470	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen. One of the current topics has recently been the issue in Croatia of sending members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to Iraq. And there's a lot of speculation in public. Given the fact that Croatia's high delegation to the United States last week was in the United States, it means that Mr. Seks and Minister Zuzul, the question of the Prime Minister, since there is no Minister Zuzul, is what agreed regarding sending members of the Croatian Armed Forces to Iraq?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u471	Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u472	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office, Mr. Representative. Croatia has and was deeply understood and is part of the anti-terrorist coalition, and in this sense I will personally advocate to remain, remain part of the anti-terrorist coalition and help in the efforts of the international community to prevent the spread of global terrorism. In a concrete case of the report, which only came from the foreign minister and it included talks by the president of the parliament, of course he could say on the second occasion. There were no concrete arrangements to send Croatian soldiers to Iraq. It is logical that the American force was interested in the Croatian possible point of view, however, of a concrete question, there is absolutely no specific question when it comes, of course it will need to consider all aspects and that we will refer it to the Croatian Parliament that has to decide on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u473	Thank you very much. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u474	Thank you very much, Mr. President, MPs and MPs, the Honorable Prime Minister and members of the government. My question to you, Mr. President of the Croatian Government. Tell me, please, what criteria have you led to the appointment and resolution of state officials since you have resolved two officials, a doctor of science who was appointed here in 2000, a non-partisan people, namely the leaders of the Department of Family Protection, Youth and Motherhood, and who, as the public is not long after being resolved when they have been established or have already learned that they have been thrown out of prosecution? Or my question specifically is how are we going to explain it, or how are you going to explain to our citizens, taxpayers that people who have worked for a few days will be paid, that debt salary for a full year?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u475	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u476	Dear Madam MPs, I agree that there is a need to comply with democratic standards of the Law and the practice of appointing state officials. So far, the criteria for appointing are very simple. We'll probably encourage this... I think both properly and quickly after we learned what we didn't know and what these two state officials needed to warn the promoter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we didn't know. When we learned this, we reacted quickly and I think it is both right and in line with the good democratic practice of Western countries that we must apply in Croatia as well. But this will be an incentive to work on appropriate laws that would already prevent possible failures and possible oversights as it did in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u477	Mr. President, I'm not satisfied with myself, but it's less important, but they're not satisfied with our citizens with this kind of explanation because it was almost a notorious thing since... in this House in the Croatian Parliament, the find of state audits that have seen such irregularities as were the basis of criminal persecution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u478	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u479	Your Honor, Mr. President. I have a question for the Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader. What you will do to prevent different and frequent pressures against journalists from some members of your government who are seriously jeopardizing the foundations of free journalism. He's worried that they're putting pressure on the press by some high-ranking officials of this government. Starting with Foreign Minister Mr. Zuzul, who is dissatisfied with the press reports on your first foreign tour. He called the editor of a media house asking for the number of journalists to give him a lesson so he would have to internalize his texts in the future. An even more drastic case has happened to a journalist of Free Dalmatia these days where blackmails and threats and the damaged mother herself wanted to prevent the publication of the text on the non-payment of the alimony of Interior Minister Stipe Cacia's assistant. According to up-to-date information on the publication of the text, they also wanted to prevent some influential persons from legal, political, police and military miles. That tells us about the fact that more and more people are taking justice is affecting the press. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u480	Mr. Representative on the first question I was present at this event and I can say a few things, I think it's a good thing you asked that question. Let's finally resolve it. But before you answer, let me say very clearly that I personally have the Government fully support and advocate full media freedom. Without any intervention or pressure from anyone. Democracy rests on the freedom of the media. The right to information is in the very foundations of democracy, and the right to information implies freedom of the media to convey it. In a particular case, and this is as well known to the public, that Prodi, after our meeting, spoke not of the legal connection between Avi and ratification, but of the possible political connection. After that, we read on the text messages in which we convey it. Where this discintion is the one that is extremely important is not, or has not been, highlighted at all. Afterwards, we contacted the chief adviser, or head of the Prodi cabinet, to make his statement. Sir's name is Stevano Tanino. We can give you his cell phone and cell number and office number. We've contacted him and asked if he's behind this kind of formulation. He said, please, if there is a need I will explain it to HINE correspondent and here if you can intercede call him and tell him, I am standing an opportunity this forumation is not correct. Afterwards, Zuzul called HINE's office, passing this information, offering to speak directly to the head of the office of Roman Prodi. All of this is pervasive all of this is true. And I ask you, if there is any need to call Mr. Stefan Tann's chief of staff, Roman Prodi's office, I'm talking about a senior European Union official. These may be new details, but it's good to ask the question that we can bring it out. I don't know if the journalist or not, called after he was transferred the number of cell phones and dissatisfaction, or, on behalf of the President of the European Commission, I don't know if that's what the journalist later did, but he had the number and he could have called the chief of staff, who, on behalf of the President of the European Commission, said that he didn't say it, and that it wasn't an accurate finding. I'm sorry if it came about this intervention and calls if there's been any misunderstandings and feelings in the public that I fully understand, and it's not good to do that, and it's not good to be interpreted like that. If the minister is in his call by explaining this and demanding to be called the chief of staff who will interpret it exactly as Prodi said. If there were perhaps inappropriate words, then I understand and I don't think that was right. But to be encouraged by the fact that the same evening had been mistranslated, which was more logical than calling which authors the information to correct it. When it comes to the case of Chachia or press pressure or anyone. I can tell you that I've read that but I have no knowledge of it and therefore I reject this question of yours, I have no idea that anyone in the government or anyone in the ministry has put pressure on a journalist. That's not what the reporter said. Therefore, I can only agree with you and the appeal and to those who pressured you not to do so. But it certainly wasn't done by the government or the Ministry of the Interior. On the contrary, the interior minister was ordered to do everything possible to protect the lady from all possible pressures and not to be pressured in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u481	So I can say that I am partly pleased with your answer, so by your work, where you claim to try to make sure that such events never happen again. but again repeat the same mistake. So it's a democratic practice not to call themselves journalists because of an article, but to respond with his statement. And on these claims, therefore, about the pressures on Free Dalmatia, read today's number of Free Dalmatias where literal witnesses claim exactly what I've just said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u482	Thank you very much. Dear representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u483	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen and ladies of the government. I would like to ask the Minister for Environmental Protection, Prostronic Planning and Construction. In fact, we have been witnessing for several years the enormous awakening of illegal construction, mostly in the coast. All the bombing announcements about the final solution to this problem in the term of the former government have ended only with several spectacular destructions mostly of family homes and in very doubtful circumstances, and the illegal construction of business spaces and apartments for the market continues to reign. We also know that the construction inspection and the ministry are carrying out administrative procedures. We also know that thousands of rightful solutions have been made to remove illegally built objects that have been deafened by lawless builders. Then thousands of solutions were made to allow for forced execution on the burden of State budget funds by refunding these costs from lawless investors later on. We know that these solutions stand, do not be executed, fall into old age, have never been carried out with the reason that there is no funds missing in the state budget. My question is: Does the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction intend to secure in the budget for this year funds for the forced execution of a solution to the removal of illegally built buildings? Because otherwise, there is a question of the purpose of further conducting expensive administrative procedures that never achieve the ultimate purpose i.e. Space protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u484	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I must say that lawless construction is probably one of the most painful points in our country today and that we must deal with it seriously. As for the destruction of existing facilities and the execution of all solutions, I must say that in the budget, indeed, there has been little means for this year, that we will have to provide more resources. But it's also in one... A building inspection is an impossible situation. [[Because of the technique, you don't understand.]] I'm just going to say that the former minister did well when he solved the chief of inspection because there, people were simply dealing with other matters, but what they should have done, and that resulted in, say, 84 inspectors leaving this ministry last year. That's not good. It's a serious job. People have to deal with prevention. They have to deal with everything that the law requires inspection to do, and they've done other things. The situation has changed. We've appointed new people, and I believe that in that part of the sanctions, it will be settled. However, illegal construction is a problem that is not only solved by destruction and we are not in favour of it being our first priority. We have done an analysis and in this analysis it is clear that the biggest problem is solving property-legal relations, then business plans. And thirdly, those people who aren't ready to report legalisation at all, or who aren't, who don't want to ask for a building permit. As for the first part of the Ministry of Justice and our ministry, it has formed and continued to work on what has already been done and the former Ministry of Law-Making, because this is obviously the biggest problem for us and you will very soon get a report on what has been made in this section by the Parliament's decisions. The second part is about spatial plans. We're going to insist on units of local self-government that these spatial plans are actually being brought in. But the third thing I have to tell you is amazing, but the vast majority of people who don't want to ask for a building permit because they have to pay a municipal contribution, or because they just think they can be illegal builders. Here we will propose measures to sanction such cases and we will at all prepare a complete material about illegal construction and we will ask you to really work together to reduce illegal construction to the minimum possible extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u485	Thank you very much. I am pleased with the answer, but I continue to ask and insist that the state fully implements its powerful solutions and decisions and discourage those who do not respect it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u486	Thank you very much. The Honorable Master of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u487	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. I address the minister of spatial planning and environmental protection, Ms. Marini Matulović-Dropulić. The problem of waste disposal has already been a long series of earthquakes I would say to Croatia, and the main area of Makarska and the region of Dalmatia, and this is imposed as one of... problem solving... [[Because of the technique, you don't understand.]] A unit of local self-government. [[Because of the technique, you don't understand.]] Although it is their ingenuity, we have witnessed that in no way can I solve this problem alone. I would also like to point out that the fact that the former government and the ministry have left the units of local self-government to themselves and my question is: what is your ministry intending to do to bridge the existing situation, especially when we can realistically expect the start of an integrated disposal and waste disposal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u488	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It's true, except for the illegal construction of waste is one of our biggest problems. But it is also true that we also have the Environmental Protection Act, that we have the Waste Act that came into force on January 1st of this year, and that Law on the Protection of the Environment, which should be dealt with. Local self-government units just don't do what they're supposed to do. One thing is municipal waste. The other thing is dangerous waste. And so, as units of local self-government in their area except honorable exceptions such as Sisak, Bjelovar, Poreč have done nothing, so also the state has done nothing to address hazardous waste and to determine locations for the disposal of this hazardous waste. Therefore, we all have a tremendous amount of work to do. The fact that lately, it's been stopping. As we answered, when we answered the previous question, we formed a new Council on Spatial Planning, which has a completely different task. We will also now form a special advice for environmental protection from experts drawn up. People really know a lot about us, a lot of people do this job, but they've just been underused. I'll say that what's actually unimaginable, but it's probably happened because it was a ban on people receiving. We have a letter and a number of three men in the Department of Waste. That's too small. In county areas, the situation is even worse, and in local self-government units, not to mention. So we're going to propose a report, we're going to propose measures, and then you're going to decide which way we're going to go on. But local self-government units have to deal with waste by all existing laws, or decide on waste management on their own. If I can't do that, I can do it with 5, 8, 10 or whatever the municipalities agree on it, if I don't, the county will help, and we'll help as a ministry. Everyone's got a part of the job, and it's just the job that needs to be done. We'll do everything we can to make sure by the tourist season more of a situation like Makarska doesn't happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u489	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u490	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In addition to what Minister Matulović-Dropulić said, I would like to say a few more principled things, and I really expect the help of all of you in the Parliament before all Parliament to move this problem from a zero point in the social consciousness. We have a fact that it is within the jurisdiction of local administration and self-government, but we also have a fact, a sad fact that when a problem arises somewhere, it was now Makarska, and tomorrow it will be Karepovac, Varazdin was these days, that then this effect that the minister has spoken of several times, notes... So not in my backyard. [[You don't understand.]] We'll all be producing junk, but then somebody else will take care of that junk. This applies not only to tourist destinations on the Adriatic or interior but to anywhere. There are two possible, two possible approaches. Either we leave it still in the jurisdiction of the municipalities, cities and counties or we raise it to the state level because that is our general problem. The images that went around the world from Makarska were embarrassing to us all together. Therefore, the initiative will come from our side to consider this in the Assembly. The parliamentary representatives who come from certain constituencies have safe and hearing what these constituencys say, but we have to break it. Either we go up to the state level and find one strategic approach, determine it, but then we all have to stand behind it, or we'll still leave it like this from case to case, so we'll have to go to parliamentary representatives and ministers, as the MP went... with the minister downstairs to solve, some other parliamentary representatives at the Kneginec near Varazdin. [[You don't understand.]] I don't think it's a systematic solution and let's let this be happening to us, and in front of our noses is a tourist season, it's an incentive to go, but to realize together in Croatia that we can't produce waste and that we're putting it off in someone else's backyard. We must all submit part of the responsibility together, so we on one side will be the Government, but I think the Parliament might also go towards that initiative to discuss it together and find a systematic solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u491	I thank the Croatian Prime Minister for further clarification and words. Honored representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u492	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. My question to Mr. Prime Minister. Why did the government extend its decision to lift visas towards citizens of Serbia-Montenegro by June, given the fact that the radical party of the Chetnik Duke and war criminal and Hague indictee Vojislav Seselje received a relative majority in Serbia's last elections. The abolition of visas would also mean the possibility that members and supporters of the party walk freely in Croatia and when you think about the deterioration of the position of the Croatian national minority in Serbia, which even the media in Serbia report while our media and our government are mostly silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u493	Madam MPs, normalising Croatia's, Serbia-Montenegro's relations has no alternative. I stand firm in that position, but it also includes full vigilance for everything that happens in Serbia. And we were worried about the election result in the parliamentary elections and victory, the relative victory of the radical party Vojislav Seselj. We want to believe that the future government, created it now or needed new elections, that this government will be a pro-reform, pro-European, pro-democratic, and in this context Croatia has made this step by expecting the formation of a government, we have extended for five months a technical extension, but at any moment the Croatian government can make that decision, we can ad hoc call a session of the Government and withdraw that decision. That's what you should know. On the other hand, there is no doubt that the visa regime alone can limit anyone's entry into Croatia. If he gets a visa, he can walk just like he walked across the border without a visa. So, of course, that's one measure in which you can control who goes in. So, here's the deal. We want to normalise relations, we want this decision to encourage also pro-reform forces in Serbia-Montenegro, to go into the formation of a government without Seselj Radicals even though it is not our intention to interfere. We will consider very serious developments in Serbia, and after that, if necessary, we will change the decision or leave if such a government is formed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u494	Mr. Prime Minister, I'm not very happy because visas are still being checked for who came in, and this way can't be checked out.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u495	I'm sorry, I didn't answer the second question, Mr. Vice President. So, like this, we will, tomorrow the Vice-President will receive one Croatian delegation from Serbia and we intend to send a delegation at the level of the minister to visit the Croats in Serbia in a very soon time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u496	It is our turn to pay attention, a parliamentary question and a distinguished representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u497	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. My question is addressed to the Prime Minister, and yesterday's talks with former Prime Minister Ivica Racan about breaking the Croatian Roads budget at the level of billions and 600 million kuna. I am in possession of the testimony of yesterday's President of the Administration of the Croatian Highways, Assembly Representative Stanko Kovac, which confirms the information I received from a citizen that last year in July, at the time of the bankruptcy of the Italian company's parent company that performs works on the Mala Kapela tunnel, an annex, a secret contract annex on as many as 48 million kunas, for allegedly a month earlier completion of works rough on that tunnel. So it is obviously one job that is harmful to the Croatian side in any case. He shows that it is not about any premium for the early completion of the work, but it is about trying to resuscitate an Italian company at the expense of Croatian taxpayers. So my question is this: if it turns out to be true, and I have that file, so I also have this contract annex and Mr. Stanko Kovac's obvious. I wonder if you will take firm and criminal action against Mr. Kovac himself, the board of directors and the supervisory board of directors of the company? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u498	Mr. Representative, this is exactly what you said. The budget of the Croatian highways was breached by a billion and 600 million kuna. What I told the former Prime Minister yesterday, and what he said in part, I don't want to interpret him because he can talk about it himself, in part, said he didn't even know. Because the fact that, and the explanation that went towards the government was that it was work, that the works were going fast, so the new contracts had to be concluded. I would like to warn the former ministry, for reasons of correctness and objectivity, that the former Ministry of Finance led by the former minister of the Church gave a negative opinion on this by Prime Minister Racan's government. That, however, the government was unacceptable after the elections on December 18, 18, 18, so, after the elections, which was completely democratically unacceptable after the elections, after voters decided that there would be a change of government, and posteriors, post factum, post-festum gave consent to this breakthrough because Croatian roads were due. Because those contracts are probably signed somewhere in the summer. They were not signed before the end of the year but signed somewhere in the summer and should have been informed by the Croatian Parliament that it was to be discussed, regardless of what I read today in the media that some sources are, it is not said which one, said that the rebalancing of the highway budget should not have been discussed by the Croatian Parliament. That's not true. We don't think that's true. So let the source who put it in the media say who it is, stand by the name and last name behind it. In other words, it is inadmissible and we will continue to do so, I do not want to work out of this either for a party currently run by the country or against a party currently in the opposition. We do not want any particular party interests here but we want the interest of the state, the interest of the budget, the interest of the Parliament, the interest at the end of the taxpayers who pay in the budget, we want to protect it. And in that sense, we agreed on a meeting before the final evaluation, even in terms of this segment you're talking about, as Mr. Kovac signed. We want to have a conversation with the former finance minister, former Deputy Prime Minister. I invited them, it's in the paper today so don't mind me saying it in public. We want to talk about it Thursday morning, so Mrs Racan, Linic, Church and Cacic. I invited them to first hear what they have to say, what we think and finally report to the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u499	I'm very pleased with the intensities of your response, although you haven't answered me specifically. This is about one contract annex to 48 million kuna. It's about how much of the tolls are collected on the highways. Therefore, I will make this document available to you so that you can specifically discuss it and inform the state's attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u500	So I ask you to give me this document, and otherwise the Minister of Finance is already examining the entire business of Croatian roads and Croatian highways, and it is waiting in the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u501	The next one to ask the parliamentary question is distinguished representative Ivan Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u502	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Equality, sovereignty and consistency are the terms most commonly used in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but the level of application of these terms for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina is totally unacceptable, i.e. we do not consume them in full. Among other things, as evidenced by this, I will list the problems of the University of Mostar, which is one of the seven higher education institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the only official Croatian language, which, by the way, teaches about 10,000 students. Funding, but thus the sustainability and future of this institution is directly linked to the abolition of Croatian language as official, or the introduction of bilingualism. I ask you nicely, Mr. Prime Minister, what will the Government do to assist the University and within which the construction of the Faculty of Medicine and Clinical Hospital is as a sign of constitutional support for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole because these institutions are open to all personally the president of the Board of Directors of the Clinical Hospital in which employees of all nationalities are employed, of course this institution takes care of everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u503	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for this question. Since it is also dropping this session at the time of the important decisions for Mostar for status on Mostar, and also at the time of the arrest of Ante Jelavic and some other HDZ officials in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would like to respond to this but also more widely to say that we are absolutely interested in maintaining the status of equality and constitutionality and sovereignty of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, without it there is no future and I would like to say that Croatia is interested in the stability of Bosnia and Herzegovina but that stability is at risk if the status of Croats is compromised. And therefore my full support will not only be declarative natural but will be safe through financial assistance through the Croatian budget and in terms of the hospital, and in terms of the University and if we can act politically I am obliged to write both a letter to both the authorities and a high representative to preserve the Croatian language, because it is the only University of Bosnia and Herzegovina that speaks Croatian, which is the Croatian University. Bosniaks have several of their own, Serbs also have several according to which it is logical to have Croats. Also around the status of Mostar to Mr Paddy Ashdown, I told the High Representative that we welcome the initiative and the insistence and effort to reach a solution to the state of Mostar by consensus of both the Croatian people and the Bosniak people and the Serbs and others living in Mostar. Therefore, our support for the Croatian government is going towards trying to reach a solution. For one city of Mostar we don't need, it's past the time of West and East Berlin, one city but to come to a consensus on the solution to try and really make the last effort to do it. And another thing about the arrest of Ante Jelavic. Talking to Paddy Ashdown wasn't a word about it, he wasn't talking about it at all, and none of us had a clue about anything. And I can only say one thing by not getting involved in Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal affairs or in the work of the judiciary if that arrest is motivated by political, if there was therefore pressure of political structures on the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina then it should be rejected and I firmly reject it. No matter what the other state is, but it is one high representative of the Croats. If it is some other reasons, legal, criminal, etc., of course we cannot go into it and ask for compliance with the law, but if it was motivated by political pressures, it is therefore a prominent representative of the Croatian people, then it should be rejected and it is not good practice and it is not good what is happening now at the time when it is necessary to decide on the status of Mostar city.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u504	Before the next question I ask the esteemed Mr. MPs to ask a question before asking which question they asked. Dear Representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u505	Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Croatian government officials, respected colleagues and colleagues. My question is to the Minister of Health, Mr Hebrang. We're witnessing a major debt in health care. The ministry did a review, therefore, of the financial audit of the business. I'm wondering if they've come forward, so the review, whether they've encountered an unintended use of funds intended solely for the treatment of patients. In other words, whether crafts that are intended to treat patients medicines, food, energy and other spent on investments or something else because we know that such practice generates huge debts. I think it's present, I don't know to what extent, so my question to what extent is it present and what do you think Mr. Ministers are going to do here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u506	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, your question is intruding at the essence of a misunderstanding between my predecessors and me. My position, and I am sure that this is in accordance with the State Budget Act, the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act. That all investments must be planned for the budget of the current year, and the second part of the investment is then planned in the second part, or in the second year. It happened to us that we found investments that last year and some years pre-planned this year. And that's why our plan of expenditure that we've prepared must now be changed from the foundation. What you call non-intentional expenditures are really unintended expenditures because according to the Health Insurance Act, the financial resources of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute are spent and are intended exclusively to pay the costs of providing health care, so to health institutions for all their expenditures and for health care; salaries, material consumption and so on. Investments are determined to take place from the state budget for state institutions, from the county budget for county institutions. There are some exceptions. The State budget may be invested in a county institution in areas of special state concern and in the case of natural disasters. We have found investments that are contrary to the way I described it. In other words, the money that the institutions received from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute was directed to construction investments, equipment investments, defence, equipment. This also serves our patient in the end, but for these investments, most of it is not intended for the budget that we have found and therefore we come into conflict with our desire to extend everything that is planned and signed. Such practice was also in the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, so I will list the findings of the State Audit which reminds us of 2002: “Intentionally spent 398 million kunas in this way”. We've come up with non-intentional expenses in the form of a contract of the ministry with the counties for investments in county health facilities. Between the ministry and the counties of equipment and so on. My view is this: Although it is something that is quite contrary to our understanding of the management of our citizens' money, we will support these investments and continue in a way that we will have to reorganise this budget for the rest of the year from the foundation and include these investments in it. Simply because there is no interruption of cooperation at investment level. We are very experienced with investments because we have invested in war, in the Homeland War destroyed objects, built them entirely in a much larger amount than we are now investing, but we have never hit the budget next year. We have always divided the investment by 31 December of the current year, and the second part of the investment into another. What is not intended at this time is both the equipment and various consumables that I have found, and the contracts are signed by the Ministry after the elections, past elections. The last contract I found was signed two days before I entered the Ministry of Health, more specifically on December 21st or December 22nd, worth 6 million kuna. Such budgets, i.e. that part of the budget signed during that period, I will propose in the budget rebalancing not to take into account but to switch to 2005. So those who were agreed after the election at Ministry level.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u507	As 18 parliamentary issues have been raised so far in accordance with previous parliamentary practice, I am setting a 20-minute break. Resume session is at 11 o'clock and 50 minutes. Next is Mr. Vlado Jukic. We're moving on with the session. I'm asking the MPs to sit on the bench. The next is the honourable representative, Mr Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u509	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Prime Minister. It's not my first time in this assembly asking a question on the subject of the Erdut Agreement, but I think it's necessary this time. In fact, after the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, we, in the HSP, and most of the public, held that there will be no need at all to mention the Erdut Agreement on the Erdut Agreement today's Minister of Justice in November repeatedly stated that it is no longer valid, not applicable. There is no reason not to believe Mrs. Skare-Ozbolt, because she was a person who was also a participant in the creation of the Erdut Agreement on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as an expert and competent person to interpret the agreement. And now following the elections, the SDSS deputy mayor's election to the province of Osijek-Baranja is being announced. So my particular question is to the Prime Minister. Based on which legal act or document of the Deputy Mayor of Osijek-Baranja County must he be a member of the national minority and member of the SDSS? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u510	Well, don't get me wrong about what I'm about to say right now, something that might go beyond the government's framework, and party policy. We have already introduced the principle of subsidiarity in my party four years ago, which means that the centre does not enter those decisions concerning local communities, from municipalities, cities, counties, we have left the full autonomy of party leadership in municipalities, cities and counties to decide for themselves who will be the mayor, mayor, mayor, who will go with whom to go to the coalition and whom to propose for the mayor. This is the autonomous decision of the County Committee of the Parties as far as I know and as much as I've been informed by the President of the County Committee, I support it, I think it's another step towards overcoming mutual relations no matter how burdened they are with the past. Croatia won the war and Croatia no longer has any reason for any complex over anyone. And I support this decision by the HDZ County Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u511	Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u512	Mr. President, I am partially pleased with your answer. So it's the HDZ decision. But you didn't answer my specific question, were you worth it or wasn't it worth the Erdutic Agreement?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u513	In the Erdut Agreement, there are a series of provisions that have been consummated later by a letter of intent from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as by the Constitutional Law, as you yourself have said about the rights of national minorities. We will consider this question, I am familiar with the statements of the Minister of Justice, Mrs Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. I know there's a difference in interpretation, whether it exists or not, we're going to do one analysis and let you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u514	It is next to the honourable parliamentary representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u515	Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I ask my question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. I believe that we all know how much and how busy it is for the south of Croatia as well as the fact that two other border crossings need to be crossed to get, for example, from Split to Dubrovnik. During the pre-election campaign and before, you announced and recently confirmed as Prime Minister the construction of the Komarna-Peljesac Bridge, which would mean the beginning of the end of the isolation of the Croatian South but at the same time better and faster development of the Peljesac peninsula and the island of Korčula, Lastov and Mljet. But confusion remains with the citizens around the highway. According to the 23 November elections last year, one statement by senior local SDP officials was published in the media that Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County do not need highways. This attitude of local SDPs is certainly not the attitude of most citizens, not Dubrovnik or Dubrovnik-Neretva County, so I ask you, Mr. President, to answer the question of what is the strategy of this Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. Will the announced construction of the Komarna-Peljesac Bridge continue the construction of the highway towards Dubrovnik independently of the bridge? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u516	Mr. Representative, the answer is very clear. The construction of the Zagreb-Split-Dubrovnik highway, or as it might be more appropriate to say Dubrovnik-Split-Zagreb, to give greater emphasis to Dubrovnik and southern Croatia and the traffic isolation in which it is located, I call it the Dubrovnik-Split-Zagreb highway goes on and it is not just a decision. That's where I want to be very correct about my former government. It's a decision and a former government that we continue. I am not familiar with the reasons why the local SDP was against this project of the former government and I know that the former government made this strategic decision in its multi-year plan to go to Zagreb-Split-Dubrovnik or Dubrovnik-Split-Zagreb and through Neum but the Croatian side the largest part of the Croatian side so from Ploč towards Dubrovnik and the highway project is not competitive but is compatible with the bridge project that we are announcing and there is also I hope not only in the public of Dubrovnik-Neretva County but in the entire Croatian public there is a high degree of consensus. The bridge also draws Peljesac out of traffic isolation, brings Peljesac back to life, gives one far greater chance and islands that engraving Peljesac and the isolation of the south of Croatia. Therefore, this bridge that is compatible, which is being upgraded, does not endanger the highway, these are two parallel projects that have to go. We are already this year, the Ministry of the Sea and Transport, tourism, and development has gone into preparatory operations so that perhaps the beginning of next year will be more concrete procedures. So, the preparations all for this bridge project will go to Komarna-Peljesac. He is not, I repeat, in conflict with the highway or in some rivalry with the highway, and I want to say one more thing also because in the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the highway, or that bridge, has caused constant controversy. There is no doubt that we want good, friendly and partnered relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina and this testifies that we want this road through Neum. So it goes, and the bridge does not enter any rivalry, but we believe that we will do so, and we ourselves will revitalize Peljesac and these islands that are gravitating and south of it from traffic isolation and already the fact that different people of different political options from Peljesac, Korčula, from the Dubrovnik coast, etc. which supports this bridge and even the fact that all political parties support building that bridge says we're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u517	Joseph Leco, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u518	Thank you for your response. The only way to answer your questions is to remove, and I only hope that the dynamics of the works will not slow this budget down on this highway.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u519	Your Honor, Mr. Representative... get a word. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u520	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, the breach of the Rules of Procedure consists of MP Matušić asking a parliamentary question, he obtained the right to enter the book of MPs without having been granted a mandate. So he didn't take an oath. One injury. Secondly, at the same time, it incorrectly states that the SDP is against the construction of the bridge. It's both a violation of the Rules of Procedure. 180th says only a representative has the right to an attorney's question. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So the representative was not at the time when he entered the book of MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u521	But the moment he asked the question, he was a parliamentary representative. For the violation of the Rules of Procedure, if I've seen Ivo Lonchar well.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u522	Mr. Vice President, colleague Josip Leco has injured the Rules of Procedure twice. First, he misinformed the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public because he said article 180 was injured. This article 180 absolutely has nothing to do with it. On the other hand, he injured Article 209 because he immediately had to say which article his colleague had hurt and then, on the basis of that, to say what the breach of the Rules of Procedure was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u523	I agree with Honorable Agent Ivo Lonchar. Next in line is distinguished representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u524	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I have a question for the Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Ambassador of the Republic of Italy to Croatia Alexandro Grafini will speak in the "Vjesnik" on ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in Italy. He mentioned the Italian conditions for it. For example. Croatia needs to implement its Eco-fishing Zone Act in agreement with Italy. Something similar that our law must be implemented in agreement with another country last claimed... But even stranger is the Italian ambassador's request to open the issue of Italian property in general... in Croatia, although the issue has already been resolved by other agreements. [[The speaker doesn't understand...]] I'm interested in your position on this in light of your recent encounter with the Italian Prime Minister... or is it on the agenda of your meeting with... and this topic? So, belt and property?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u525	Mr. Representative, surely that Italy, that is my assessment will not set as a condition of what you have stated, nor the reopening of property issues because it is regulated neither on the fishing-environment zone for its ratification. I'm using this opportunity and I'm glad you asked this question, I'm using this opportunity to call on the Government of the Italian Republic to ratify the Stabilisation and Association Agreement without any additional conditions because it's already done by 12 countries. Croatia has shown its democratic and pro-European democracy during both the previous government and during this government, and there is no reason why Italy should not ratify the agreement. I do not expect that Prime Minister Berluscony, with whom I have a good relationship, a correct and open relationship that he will set it up, will not expect to put it at our meeting on Friday, on... as an additional condition of ratification. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I wouldn't want to speculate whether or not my answer will be, but from what I've told you, it's clear that we expect Italy to ratify this Agreement as soon as possible, without any additional conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u526	Mr. Prime Minister, however, I did not get a clear answer to the question whether you believe that Croatia should implement its Eco-fishing Zone Act in agreement with Italy and what you think about the property... And besides, Mr. Grafini didn't speak for himself, but as an Italian ambassador. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u527	What do I think about that? I think Croatia will implement its laws the way the Croatian Parliament has brought them. That's one thing. Second. ... Second. [[Applause.]] Second. I also think that as a mature member of the international community of states and peoples, we are talking to all neighbours about issues that are of their own interest. That doesn't rule out conversation. We've still got 9, 9, 10 months to apply the law, and by then we'll be safe, I want to talk to Italy to see what the points of their interest are, but the law has to be applied, it can't be withdrawn. And secondly, in terms of property, there are our bilateral agreements that the Croatian government, that is what is not, which is controversial. Neither the former HDZ government nor the current government nor this one, this one initially failed to resolve in accordance with the agreement. So the question is that we start to solve this so it doesn't reopen as a new issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u528	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u529	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen. I wanted to refer my question to the Prime Minister Dr. Evey Sanader, but since he answered my question partly in response to the question of the respected representative Bagaric, I also thought to ask a question about the Statute of Mostar. So I'd just like you to give me your... comment on the result, the result of the elections from the Mostar referendum where 99% of the households expressed their desire for one city and one municipality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u530	My comment is very simple. I think democracy should respect the will and mood of the voters. The voters are the ultimate instance of democracy. And I'm on my side, and I'm gonna do it again, even though I already said it in the last answer. In a conversation that was extremely good and correct with High Representative Paddy... in a conversation that I presented our full understanding of the very serious work he is doing in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our understanding of the character of this job and of the complex situation in which he works. I wished him every good in this job by saying that Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina are two friendly countries and that we have a special interest in good relations and because of the fact that the Croatian people live and what is the homeland and the Croatian people. Therefore, my suggestion was when he asked me for an opinion to try the consensus of both Croatian peoples and Bosniak and Serbian and other citizens to find a solution for Mostar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u531	Honorable representative Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u532	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, President and Minister of the Croatian Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will refer the question to the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Mr. Peter Cobankovic. Mr. Minister, it is known that the winter peasants use as a preparatory period for preparing and organising spring sowing and so on if they are known not to have been paid incentives for the 2003 office. Surely they need money for the entire organization, so I ask, will they pay even when the incentives they are waiting for are paid? And what can generally be done on this plan so that such things don't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u533	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Representative. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the prisoners. Let me say a few words to me I know this problem and I agree with Mrs. Representative that this is a very complex problem. But this is how I have to say a few things about paying off incentives for cultures from the spring harvest in 2003. For which no incentive has been paid. I'd say there are two things, one thing is that incentives for cultures can be paid after input and processing patterns one. Why the deadline on January 31st? The second thing is that we currently have temporary funding, meaning that the budget for the first three months provides for certain financial resources. Unfortunately, these funds are not enough for me to be able to pay off the full incentives that were transferred from 2003. Overall, looking at the base of 2003, we should be pouring about 800 million kunas somewhere. Of which somewhere around 650 million kunas should go an culture from spring seeds. What I want to say is, as I said, we have certain elites, that in temporary financing for the first three months based on agricultural incentives, 231 million kuna is foreseen. Now you can also see a certain disproportionateity. But also, while respecting the current situation, I have given a warrant within the Ministry of Water Economy, Forestry and Water Economy to create a redistribution plan. So all we think is that in this first three months, we can sort of say, squirm, ask the Ministry of Finance and the Government to agree on redistribution. And in this way, to create a certain amount of financial amount, where it would basically start to pay off incentives for agricultural crops from spring seed. In this way, I believe that after January 31st, we will start with the first part of the payment of incentives precisely for those agricultural crops from the spring seed. Which is the point to point out. Is that this payment will have to be in two parts. Because we say it's better to pay off one piece now than to wait for a new budget if we could pay the full amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u534	Thank you. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u535	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, respected members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm going to ask a late question about our recent future. Every year especially in the summer months, we witness great fires that destroy our shores by doing great material and ecological damage. And I think now is exactly the time to prepare for it. So I would ask the defence minister Mr. Berislav Rončević what will be the engagement of the MORHA in the upcoming anti-eating season and will be ready to take into account both the equipment and the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u536	Dear Mr. President, the speaker has been disfellowshipped, however, the Ministry of Defence is actively involved in the achievement of this task. The MORH will be ready for this fire-fighting season, a deal on the maintenance of canaders as a strategic means in the fire-fighting season has been concluded. We're having three canads one last year, he's got a halvary, and he's in general repair. Besides, with four helicopters that estimate it'll be three days of operative. Two air tractors and three noses or dedicatedly organized forces on land, 50 to 70 people. The equipment of the people who will put out the fire on the ground has been improved, and if the budgets are as we wish for this activity, the MORH is ready for this year's fire-fighting season.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u537	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u538	Just a few words extra for this important topic. It is now current and not at a time when these weather disasters are very difficult to control. At one of the next government meetings, therefore, very soon, there will be a complete proposal from the government for measures to be taken in a preventive manner before the tourist season before the summer. The departments in charge are in charge and we will report to the public the necessary steps to be taken by the government before the summer arrives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u539	Thank you. Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u540	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, Mrs. Minister, respected ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. My question will be addressed to Mr. Branko Vukelic, Minister of Economy. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, are you familiar with the case of the disappearance of peasant wheat in... Virovitica-Podrava County, i.e. in the farm Virovitica 3007 tonnes and Klasje Slatina a thousand and 500 tonnes making up a total mass of 5 thousand and 200 tonnes? [[You don't understand.]] I ask you, what are you going to do about the responsibility for the disappearance of the wheat, and what solution do you see for the robbed Slavonian and Podravic peasants before whom the uncertain spring crop is, and the diet of what little cattle stock it has is questionable? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u541	Thank you, honourable parliamentary representative, for the question, although this is more appropriate for Minister Cobankovic, because as far as I understand it, it is not about the goods of the goods or something that would be related to the goods that are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. However, I can say that on this information that you have provided, I will gather together with Minister Cobankovic all the necessary information and forward it to the Government and here to you in the Parliament. It seems that there will be work and there will also be for a colleague of Minister Mlinarić. But here's the moment I can't answer this question. We'll gather information and give it to you in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u542	I thank you for this response and for the activities you will take and I would like to receive in writing a reply to what has been done and what measures have been taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u543	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u544	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Prime Minister, Ministers, Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen Representatives. My question was addressed to the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Vesni Skare-Ozbolt. Last night, thanks to HINA, Croatian television in its central daily incorrectly and falsely informed the Croatian public that 12 rulings of the Administrative Court have questioned the disbanding of the Osijek-Baranja County Assembly as well as recognition of the held extraordinary elections since 18 January this year. In fact, HINA allowed herself to present incorrect facts in her comment and to draw incorrect conclusions, which made it difficult for her to bring the news to media outlets, as well as to the entire Croatian public. Osijek-Baranja County is not disbanded due to the administrative court's ruling. It was disbanded for the reason that the representative body of the local self-government did not function for nearly 5 months and that, in the time since 4 July 2003, when the last session was held until mid-November when the former government disbanded the assembly with its decision. Madam Minister, I ask you for an answer on what is true. Is this what HINA and Croatian television yesterday placed on the Croatian public with the intention of creating an impression of the illegality of the elections made, or is it true what I represent here earlier? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u545	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Not entering the autonomy of HINA's comment, it is a fact that under the Law on Local Administration and Self-Government of the then Ministry of Justice of the Local Administration and Self-Government, a proposal was submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the disbandment of the County Assembly for the reason that it had not met for more than 3 months and that was why the Government adopted a resolution last year on the disbanding of the Osijek-Baranja Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u546	I would like to thank Mrs. Secretary. I especially thank you for giving a credible interpretation of the reasons why the Assembly of Osijek-Baranja County was disbanded.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u547	Honorable representative Danira Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u548	President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister and the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen. The current kidnapping is the girl Jelena Gudeljevic, so I would like to ask Mr. Minister of the Interior Dr. Marijana Mlinarića will give us detailed information about what the MUP has done in connection with the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u549	... President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor. [[Speaker not enabled]] The D.O.P. has made the arrest of two suspects for this act. They're being prosecuted. In order not to interfere with this processing, I cannot talk about the details, but I believe that the case will be resolved very quickly by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u550	I'm happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u551	Thank you very much. Honorable representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u552	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a Slavonic-Baranja question, if I may call it that. Here's what we heard today about Slavonia-Baranja County. I think Slavonia is really fed up with the affairs of the County Assembly, so here's this arch to the Constitutional Court, so Valpova, so questions about what's actually going on around really everything that's worth the rule of law, etc. But let's turn to something that's truly true in the future. Professional bases have given rise to a more or less political consensus on several strategic importances, literally such as Slavonian-Baranja projects. And I say that without any pretentiousness. I'll tell you who they are and repeat that this is a consensus -- and corridor 5C, and Agrobank, and the development of the university. In fact, agrarian with a significant issue of irrigation. Here's a direct... Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to suggest that, in a certain way, if I may say and oblige you to come to Osijek as you were in Istria with good intentions and talk there about these projects with MPs, with experts, so all in order to say how I said the turn of the future, and also because here we are soon preparing a budget to make important, really important steps for Slavonia and Baranja. [[no switch]] Please, if you decide to do so, and you should, not be within 30 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u553	Your Honor, sir, I accept your proposal and I will try to keep it within 30 days. I've been in Osijek for a short while, but this is a working meeting where we should be representatives of the newly elected county government, so we'll do everything our mission, the government's task of establishing within a certain time and county headship, but we're certainly ready to be all the MPs from IV at that meeting. election units, and if necessary, if you estimate I can also be from V. and then we can all meet together and talk about it. We are certainly in the interest of a balanced development of all Croatian parts, all counties and in this sense all the projects that we will discuss and which you will present if there is a consensus with them will have our support, and the realization this year will depend on the state of the state of the state of finances.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u554	Thank you very much. Here you go, colleague Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u555	Now I am asked to write down my emotional state, whether I am satisfied or not. But nothing, Mr. Prime Minister. Goodbye in Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u556	Thank you very much. It is up to you to ask a representative question, dear colleague Nikola Ivanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u557	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The important prime minister and members of the government are issues for the health minister and vice-president of the government. The start of the government's mandate among other issues also marked the issues of the health system. A whole series of discussions and controversy about long-terms, losses, government transfer methods and something I'm interested in, and these are competitions for capital medical equipment for hospitals. I am particularly interested in the Clinical Hospital Center in Rijeka and the question concerns it. On 3 November 2003, therefore, a contract was signed before the elections between the city of Rijeka, the County of the coastal-goran, the Ministry of Health and the KBC on joint investment, i.e. the purchase of capital equipment. Somewhere the ratio of approximately 40% of local and regional self-government and 60% of the ministry, or state. The value of around 80 million, so a little more than 10 million euros and equipment that is significantly important for the continuation and quality of the work of the second largest and strength of the plant institution in Croatia, KBC Rijeka. The ministry issued a tender and a famous memo, i.e. by opening questions about how tenders were called, stopped just somewhere when offers were to be opened for KBC Rijeka. You've spoken more than once in public about it, and today you've touched this and today you've made it quite clear that competitions and procurements will be suspended only where there were illegalities in the contracting and tendering. I am particularly interested in whether the signing of the contract and the tender that the ministry has issued for the KBC Capital Equipment River, where the magnetic resonance, the modern CT, and in Rijeka at present the CTs are no longer working but are working, whether it was legal and if this means that the tendering and procurement process and the equipment within the framework of what has been agreed with the participation of the city and the county continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u558	Thank you very much. The word has been made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u559	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Representative, this contest you mention in KBC River is one of the ones I was just talking about. It is a competition that was conducted under the law, but unfortunately in the items of expenditure of the Ministry of Health it is not provided for a item for that equipment. Since we are now doing the budget from April 1st and beyond, we will include these tenders in this next accounting interval and then the competition will be able to move on. So it is legal, unfortunately it has been passed beyond a democratic term, and these are elections which, of course, will not affect our decision just here we warn, but once we bring these expenditures into line with our budget items, the competition will go on, so it can go on as soon as the Croatian Parliament adopts the budget for the next period this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u560	Thank you very much. So we can count on the proposer of that part of the Croatian budget relating to health care, proposing that this be installed and that the second quarter competition begin. In that case, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u561	Thank you. Now it's time to put in a peddler's question, dear colleague Cain. Here you go, buddy Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u562	Honorable gentlemen, MPs and esteemed representatives of the government. I want to ask the question either to Mr. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister or Mr. Shucker, Minister of Finance. Today, a lecture on Holocaust should be organised in all Croatian schools. That's good. The course of World War II will likely be mentioned in an objective way in the areas of the Republic of Croatia. It is also good that the president of the government and the president of the state two days ago, if I am not mistaken, visited the Jewish municipality here in Zagreb. It is also good that Mr. Sanader praised himself on one occasion or more about Istrian anti-fascism, but whether this government intends to bring back the acquired rights of World War II fighters taken away from them in 1991 and they were concerned, I have here a description of 30 of these rights, pensions, disability, health benefits etc. So according to the one we've already heard, the pensioner. They took it from us, they'll give it back to us when those rights will come back, that is, when their status will be consistent with the status of the Homeland War fighters.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u563	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Mr. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u564	Mr. Representative, I will take this opportunity for your question and thank you for your reviews of these moves we have made. It was nothing beyond normal, beyond expected. We think it is a civilization move because antifascism is in the foundations of the Croatian state, in the modern foundations of Europe and we are proud of it. I also want to take advantage of the occasion and say that today around the world is the day of the Holocaust, the day that Auschwitz was released. Croatia joins in marking that day and through, as the minister of science and education and sports reported to me through school learning. Therefore, it is our common gain on which we build further, in which Istria has also played a special role and we all know it. I want to say that I'm not really familiar with this subject in detail, so let's read it in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u565	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. It's your turn, Comrade Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u566	... And I think you'll include the members of the SAB. [[Specially enabled.]] I would like to point out that President Tudjman visited Istria at least once a year, if not Istria that Briona. And almost once a year, and Mr. Šetić witnessed, received members of the Union of anti-fascist fighters. And he always emphasized their patriotism. I stress patriotism. And always, there was a promise that something would be done about it. To this day, there is nothing and we expect that for the first time in the budget items for the 2004 budget, they will be in some way in line with their status with the Homeland War fighters. After January 3rd, however, pensions grew slightly faster than other categories of citizens, far from the fact that the rights began to return the way they were drawn in the year 91.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u567	I must tell you that the second part of your announcement has been used to lead the debate, not to express your satisfaction or dissatisfaction with your submitted response, so I ask you not to do so in the future. Dear counterpart Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac is scheduled to ask a parliamentary question. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u568	Honored Vice President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'd like to, I'd like to ask Mr. Primorac a question, but since he's not here, Mr. Setic. She would like to look back on the latest research conducted among children of school age. The first research is about how many children saw guns, from knives, guns and other means of pyrotechnics, and that's all in four-year-old schools the examination was done. And the percentage is really big. 37% of students saw such weapons and 24% of high school students. Another study is that shows a tremendous trend of violence both in schools and out of schools. For 5 thousand children, 27% of children experience violence from their peers daily and 16% of their peers outside of school. No one does anything but the police, and that's just in case there's serious bodily injuries. The directors don't react because they think if they don't react that they don't have it in their schools. Some associations and doctors have done something in some ways. I'm asking you what the ministry thinks about doing because the trend is really an apparent increase in violence and use of weapons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u569	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Mr. Nevio Šetić. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u570	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. You've asked a very complex question, which is also a school problem, but above all, sociocultural. What affects our society and I think that in this Viskom House it deserves to say that it is a question to which we are all obliged to react because it comes out of the scope of only the jurisdiction of the director and the teacher. I want to tell you that our information says that directors and teachers are very helpful in reducing these circumstances and those in schools react. But a great deal of these pressures especially around violence happen at a time when students are out of school and that's one of our social issues. And around weapons, explosive devices, I think that also points to our sociocultural environment and that in our families, and that owns it, and that's one interdisciplinary question. And I assure you, we're going to take all the action, and the Department of the Interior thinks it can help us. And violence and these circumstances and underage lawyers can also help, and our ministry is working on a programme. It has already done something in this field to further intensify what school through principals, teachers, teachers can do. Anyway, we're worried about this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u571	Thank you very much. Comrade Bukovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u572	I'm only partially satisfied with the answer because now really parents are on their own. I already said the police aren't even responding unless they're serious physical injuries. And I can only give an example of the City of Kastava who introduced security services into a school bus. So I think the ministry might need to cooperate more with local self-government units on this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u573	Thank you very much for your opinion. It's your turn to ask the question, dear colleague Poirot. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u574	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, esteemed Prime Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer the question to Mr. Minister of Economy, Mr. Vukelic, and it refers to what is happening today in “Vicor Lenc”. My question is whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia will help find a solution, better put into work at the "Vicor Lenac" shipyard so as not to see the liquidation take place. I want to say that I fear what happened to Lenca a few years ago to "Army" from Rasha, where more people were employed than Victor Lenac Shipyard today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u575	Thank you very much. The word has an economy minister, Mr. Vukelic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u576	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian. As we well know, Viktor Lenac and all other shipyards or shipbuilding is one of the strategic branches of the Croatian industry and the interests of the Croatian economy, and thus also in the interest of the Croatian government. Viktor Lenac is now in bankruptcy, so he is out of the way I would say the power of the Ministry of Economy in this situation but the problems and problems that are in both Viktor Lenac and the shipbuilding are not clearly out of our jurisdiction, and on this matter he was given the order and responsibility of the State Secretary, Mr Vrankovic, at the Ministry of Economy, to prepare one full information and report together with the shipbuilding, the Institute and all the competent ones and we will prepare this information and hand it over to the Government at one of the first next sessions that they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u577	Thank you very much, colleague Poropat, it is your turn to ask the representative question, dear colleague Mlinarić, Petar Mlinarić, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u578	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Madam Minister, Mr. Minister, Honorable Representatives and Honorable Representatives. My question will go to the honourable minister, Mrs Jadranki Kosor, the minister of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. My question is more appeal than question, I ask the Croatian government to speed up, the biggest humanitarian problem in the Republic of Croatia, and these are the prisoners and missing Croatian defenders and civilians from the Homeland War. Knowledge of localities, individual and mass graves as the basis and starting point and slowness in solving identification through the DNA method, another 600 to 700 bodies are in the common tombs in Zagreb and Osijek after so many years. Parents die quietly, children who are still in common graves, those who are alive, let them die knowing that they can lay flowers on their children’s graves. So I ask all of you here and I ask the Serb national minority to take up because the key is in their hands and that we all solve this problem faster together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u579	Thank you very much. There's a Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u580	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Thank you very much because you encourage the Croatian government, both the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public on the biggest humanitarian issue, the biggest humanitarian problem in the Republic of Croatia. That for this government is indeed the biggest problem that we are going to solve in a way intensively, we will give it priority because, of course, until the last one is found on the list, it is more than 1200 people and defenders and civilians that procedure must not be completed and of course we must not hand it over to oblivion. I would like to announce here that precisely because the smaller and more compact government we want to act faster and more efficiently, in solving this issue, we will act inter-resorically. Since we have in the government and Minister Primorac, who is one of the experts for DNA, we will include him personally and the experts he will recommend. Establish another special task force that will work on this problem. I would also like to inform you that the Ministry of Defence will also launch an initiative, we will see if we will turn it into a law or in some other way resolve to set up in the Croatian Parliament, based on a public tender, one flag in the name of the United States and their search for the missing, flag in memory of the prisoners and missing, and that it will be in the Assembly until the moment the last of the missing is found. Here's the initiative I haven't even gotten to know Mr. President yet. He's moving out of the Ministry. We'll figure out whether it's law or something. And of course I will advocate that the reports to the Croatian Assembly on the search for prisoners and missing persons, about everything in this area, come regularly and that the Croatian Parliament is discussing it, and not as unfortunately as has been the case so far, and yet another initiative is trying to solve the problem of the family of prisoners and missing means from the moment when they identify their loved ones until the moment when they pass, unfortunately, into this other group, so most often their incomes are not solved and they wait too long to solve the existential problem. Here's hoping you're satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u581	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u582	Thank you very much, I'm pleased, because by waving these 600 to 700 bodies are Vukovars but I'd be happier if this question were asked by the distinguished representative Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u583	Thank you very much. It is next to ask a representative question from a respected colleague, Marin Jurjevic. Here you go, colleague Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u584	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister and Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It's a question for Prime Minister Sanader. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, in Croatia, the public has very positively echoed your statements that there will be no rematch after the takeover of power by HDZ and the claim that professional, knowledge and so on will be respected first and foremost, and that political similarity will not be considered a negative factor. I am so much more surprised and I would like to, and I would like to ask you to comment on Mr. Hebrang's statement given in the New List in his interview, quoting where he says: "Health should be run by people who are ready to implement the HDZ programme." In my view, it might be said that it is possible to ask all hospital directors to be members of HDZ or to be subject to the test, to test the knowledge of the HDZ programme to meet the criteria of Mr Hebrang. I'm asking you and asking for a comment because this is far from your prophesying statements.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u585	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u586	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative Jurovic. That's what I and all the government officials say, and that's what we stand on. In Croatia, we do not have the human potential to change 500 people during any change of government. Even if we wanted to, we couldn't because we don't, and I think we're a small, medium country, as anyone is already looking at the criteria and we really need to rely on professional and capable people and that there's their political orientation in the second order, if not in the third row. However, any political force that receives the voter's mandate on a specific programme must already, for reasons of responsibility to the electoral body both to the public and to the parliament who voted and trusted the government, implement the programme. Therefore, I do not interpret a statement by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Health and Social Care as you interpret it, so that now every director or employee of any medical official should know the HDZ programme. No, I don't. You'd have to know the government program. That's how I interpret Mr. Deputy Prime Minister's statement. He'd have to know what the government's programme is, and in that segment, what's the problem, and what's the health and welfare programme. I'm not going to argue, and it's not right for us to pass on each other, but the fact that at one point the former government replaced all supervisory representatives of the board of directors, replaced the directors, so after the administrative council was put in place a new one, then the board of directors changed. That's not what we're gonna do, but we're gonna make sure the law is respected. And now that Minister Hebrang has given an explanation for certain from, the shifts that followed it was due to a violation of the law which clearly states that if a certain institution enters into debt, it goes down, enters the deficit, then it is logical that it must be replaced and I am sure that it would be done by your health minister or any other health minister regardless of any political orientation. No matter what political orientation he was. Therefore, there will be no rematch, but we will take great care of it, so you can see that around these debt in healthcare there has been a great deal of dust and when you have asked me about me, although there is a minister who could have answered that question himself, but when you have asked me to answer one question that has been addressed to me these days, why has Minister Hebrang been avoiding TV or media duel with his former colleague or with Mr. Nikica Gabric? According to my information, there will be one on one of the televisions not national but on one local, regional television that I am now doing a commercial that, tomorrow, the TV duel of Minister Hebrang and Mr Gabric, and we will all watch and see where this truth is? I'm sure, I'm sure, I'm sure the public will follow it closely because it's about taxpayers' money. Therefore, one who in an inadequate way, contrary to the law, untransparently spends taxpayers' money deserves to be replaced.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u587	I'm partially satisfied with your answer. You've all retroactively repeated what you're saying. Mr Hebrang said indeed that healthcare should only be run by those who are willing to implement the HDZ programme. It's not, I mean that's what he said. You can interpret it, these are spoken words. As far as the principal is concerned, the board of directors have been replaced, but not the directors. After all, there is Mr. Turic who has been before and now is the director and so on and certainly not, no, no, so surely it is not. And I'm saying that's your interpretation, but words are words that are spoken. ... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u588	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mate Brletić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u589	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, gentlemen of the Ministers, gentlemen of Parliament myself, I refer the question to the President of the Croatian Government. Status in the textile industry. Does the government have any plans to resolve the situation in the textile industry? Women in the textile industry earn 45 to 50% lower wages than the Croatian average. Almost all companies, about 120 companies in which they have membership union movements are negative and are not expected to increase employment. Many Western countries... textile production mostly, Romania, Hungary, Bulgaria and Macedonia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the trend occurs in Croatia, the current level of employment cannot be maintained. In response... at the request of a union asking the new Government for sectoral, social dialogue based on arguments, analysis, the purpose of development with the improvement of competitiveness and the preservation of employment. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u590	This government is Mr. Representative aware of the problems in the textile industry. There is one initiative of the relevant union for a social dialogue and discussion with the government, we will only determine this, because the position of this government is not to enter into individual discussions with border unions, etc., but with trade unions. Therefore, we know these problems and problems in the Croatian textile industry. We want to do it together, and maybe even at one debate wider and on GSV, but we're collecting data, analysis. First of all, the analysis referred to and directed towards the assessment of the competitiveness of the Croatian textile industry in relation to the international market and then we will inform you, but that is one of the priorities, is one of the tasks that we have already detected and given certain orders to prepare the analysis so that we can meet the union requirements to determine. The only thing I can't say at this point, because I've given my word to union centre representatives that at the level of the government, at the level of the ministries yes, but the government as such as the Prime Minister will meet and talk to representatives of the union centres, not their members, because otherwise it would be one 100, 150 only unions with which we should talk, every honor, do important work, but there are union centres of them are 6 and will be dialogued with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u591	I'm happy with the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u592	Thank you. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u593	Dear President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. My question to the Minister of Health, Mr. Hebrang, is about your letter of 8 January this year to the addresses of the county, namely eight counties, which in a way you appeal to the county to suspend all procedures for the implementation of the state of the health home in a single county home of health, until you get an opinion from the central state administration office on their interpretation of certain provisions of the Law on the Institutions and the Law on Units of Local Regional Self-Government, and regarding the provisions of Articles 68 and 205. The health care law. Namely, the procedures for the merger of health homes in the counties where decisions were made on this were made by the county heads, not by the county parliaments. My question, what will happen to the counties where this procedure has been brought to an end, including the Split-Dalmatia County, where there are now many problems, because it is a specific county since it has both islands and hinterland etc., has the most health homes, I think it is the county that has 13 health homes the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u594	What's going on, ma'am... The dissatisfaction that many counties have shown with the existing legal provision, which says that only one home of health should be formed in each county, and that legal provision has been respected by some counties and brought into line with that provision, and now we have a parish where there really is only one home of health. [[speaks off, can't be heard]] There are a number of counties that disagreed with this because distances are, therefore, because of geostrategic and, due to connections of traffic, certain health homes are over 100 kilometers away, and some are also distant by boat. So many counties have asked whether the law was being amended or interpreted. We've requested a metric interpretation, and when we get it, we'll plead. Our proposal in a future amendment to the Health Protection Act will be precisely because of such demands that each county establish as many health homes as it deems necessary, given the traffic connection in its county.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u595	Thank you. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u596	Thank you. Honorable representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u597	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and members of the Croatian Government. I'm referring the question to the Minister of the Interior. The Croatian public, as always, has a special interest in the work of secret services. For their oversight, parliamentary, for their reshuffle, for the appointment of leaders, and for many others that are related to their work. Certainly the biggest interest is shown by the media, because it is probably one of the most commercial topics. These days are very recent speculations about the preparation of new changes, i.e. the reconstruction that is related to the work of those services. Is it true, Mr. Minister, that a very soon-to-be counterintelligence agency will be reintegrationd into the frameworks of the Ministry of the Interior? If that were true, I would like to stress that this would be contrary to some good, democratic standards as to how these services work and operate in the modern world. Please respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u598	I have to say, decidently, that we never thought or talked about it, these are speculations in newspaper articles, perhaps initiated even from these circles to find out what this government thinks about it. I'm decidently responding that we never talked or thought about putting the counterintelligence agency back under the auspices of the MUP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u599	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u600	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. What will you do to protect the Drava River and in this case with two aspects. First of all, will the Croatian government decide to give up preparation for the construction of the New Sources Hydropower Plant, such as the Hungarian Government? And secondly, will you and how do you stop the further devastation of the Drava River in a way that digs gravel from the river Drava trough? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u601	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I'm glad you're asking a question about the Drava River. Surely we will do nothing to harm what you have spoken of. So we're not going to do anything. We're thinking of doing a lot more for protection, and in that we expect your suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u602	Well, I'm not happy. I'd ask if you can with a yes or no say whether you're going to build a hydropower plant or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u603	Dear Representative Perica Bukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u604	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I refer the question to the representative of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. We know how long the Sport Act has been waiting and how important it is for the formation of sports in Croatia. The question is, what stage is it and when is the law expected to be passed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u605	Your Honor, Mr. President! Dear Mr. Representative, we have been working on this project for a short time, and I can tell you that with the changed circumstances and certain changes because this law has already been in the procedure this law will return to the procedure in the Croatian Parliament, it means over several months, a month, two with those amendments because we were not satisfied with all the solutions and in the meantime, I can tell you, consultations have been made with all interested and professional knowledge and so the updated law will come very quickly into the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u606	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u607	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u608	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, Government and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! During last year and especially during the pre-election campaign, the Croatian public was busy with certain threats that the HDZ would come to power for Croatia to fall into international isolation, that there would be a slowdown of the progress on Croatia's approach to the European Union, and in some people it was indeed a cause for a certain fear that this could happen. Since in the last month you have visited Brussels, among other things, the headquarters of the European Union and some European countries have spoken with a number of European countries leaders, can you explain to the European and our Croatian public, in particular the Parliament, how activities are under way to bring Croatia closer to European integration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u609	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for this matter. Despite the fact that it is said in some media that the interest of the Croatian public may fall on the road to the European Union, I would like to say that I share, like all of us here, with regard to our journey and the great benefits that will be positive effects that will come after Croatia enters full membership of the European Union and NATO. I personally believe that this decline in public interest may refer to the possible delay or delay of positive decisions when it comes to Croatia. And the past government, I want to say very clearly, and this government has done everything and seems to allow the European Commission to give a positive opinion so-called. "vi" at the beginning of spring. Those were announcements, which was confirmed to me in the talks in Brussels. It can only be a brief commentary of what you said was such "awesome" of the Croatian public that if HDZ wins, it will come to a standstill, etc. I want to say it very clearly. In all talks from the European Parliament, the Council of Europe, NATO to the European Commission, until bilateral meetings with the European Union chairman, the Irish prime minister was very clearly told that they well assess the moves of the new government, the transfer of power that Croatia and these elections have shown that a mature democratic country is already changing the authorities for the third time in 1990, 2000, without any problems in line with the best democratic standards. It is a good assessment and cartoonist for all of us political factors in Croatia. So there's no delay here. There is no process of monitoring the new Croatian government but we expect, we are now going into an active approach. We expect the European Commission to give a positive opinion on the Council of Ministers and then on the European Council of Ministers in June to decide on Croatia's status as a candidate, on the basis of the answers sent by Croatia at the end of the year and on the basis of those additional questions it referred to. We estimate, as one gesture that I want to continue, I continue to invite the presidents of parliamentary parties who have responded to this thanks, informed them firsthand about these talks, I am also doing so here today. All the conversations were in a very warm open atmosphere. There is an objective political issue, which is that the three countries have not ratified, or the two countries have not ratified, and the third has not been notified, that is, the Netherlands. We're also going from this session, I've already done it towards Italy, but I'm referring to the governments of Great Britain and the Netherlands to do it as soon as possible. Croatia is aware of its obligations, Croatia is aware that it must meet the political criteria. This government is fully aware and wants to meet all these political criteria. And therefore, I expect that the European Commission will give a positive opinion on this avi, and that then, ideally, it would be in June to get candidate status and start date of negotiations which could be a little later, a few months, half a year. But therefore, we expect it, we believe, that the European Union would not only fairly evaluate Croatia's efforts so far in democratic predominance, the consolidation of democratic institutions, judicial reform, and all other criteria. It is to send a clear signal to all the countries in this part of Europe that Croatia is a positive example and that there is an open perspective for these countries, because it is clear to me that the European Union is united with all countries, that Europe cannot be united with one white or dark stain here in the centre of Europe. Therefore, we expect this and the Euorbian Union will do well, I am sure to take care of this study of public change and this study of public change, which shows that a little bit is beginning to fall into interest. Because, of course, Croatia needs a positive answer and a positive reception and that this reception that we have also encountered in all the capitals of the European Union that this reception of the sea and this warmness and openness towards Croatia and the declarative support of Croatia must follow in the final decisions. And that's what we all expect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u610	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u611	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, I would like to refer the question to the Prime Minister. You are probably the only prime minister in the world who had to issue a warrant to protect one person in Croatia from the assistants of the same interior minister and his friends. What does that tell us? This tells us that your responsibility in the matter of the appointment of Mr. Chachia as Assistant Minister of the Interior is inevitable. Your responsibility in this appointment of Mr. Chachia, Mr. Sanader, is inevitable. The moment you named him, you knew that man was breaking the laws and a few laws. He's been sick for three years. He hasn't been to work in three years. So he was, like, a simultaneous, or he's a sick person, so it's kind of weird that you put a sick person behind your own personal guard. Worse than that, he violated the Law of Service in the Armed Forces because he participated in your pre-election meetings and you knew that this law defended it. Therefore, despite the fact that this man broke the laws, you called him a ministerial assistant. What message did you send to all Croatian Army officers? You break the laws, don't go to work, if you don't feel comfortable going to sick leave for three years but call HDZ and if you're a member of the HDZ and if you're loyal to me, I'll appoint you Assistant Minister. You only replace him now that another scandal has been found in these scandals that he has a marriage child and that he doesn't want to pay child support. Mr. Sanader, I'm asking you, is this the way you're going to run Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u612	Mr. Representative, I'm glad you asked this question to Mr. Chachia, so let me, since I have listened very closely to your objections, objections, accusations, whatever we call it to answer then. Mr. Cacia a) was not appointed assistant minister while he was at the second resort, meaning in defence but after he was retired, the first fact. So, I'm sending a message to name someone, etc. he is in another resort or is on sick leave there, it is not true, after being retired he has been appointed as Assistant Minister of the Interior for Insurance Affairs which we have excluded and raised from the level that the Chief has led so far in the former structure of the Ministry of the Interior, we have now raised them to the level of administration precisely because of the strengthening of international terrorism and the dangers that are going from there. And that's management, I remind you, and I want to say that to the public who has about 450 people on insurance business throughout Croatia. So, it's extremely important to ask why, so far, the interior ministry's so important activity has been at the level, led at the level of the chief? That can be asked a question. That is general and that is our assessment that we were and that we did well to raise that part of the internal affairs business to the level of administration and to be the assistant minister. We named Stip Chachia because he was one, because he's one of the people who's been working on these jobs for 10, 12 years, who's done it well, who's been a good professional. And gave him the task of trying this, that administration now, therefore, not the department that was so far, but the administration to make it even better and more efficient than it was. Stipe Cacia in the pre-election campaign of the Croatian Democratic Community was not my bodyguard, that is what I want to say very clearly because it is already repeated on Croatian television contrary to my statements and the opposite of the facts. Stipe Cacia was head of HDZ security in the election campaign. Since we're in, and now I'm going to say it in public for the first time. Not defending the actions of Stipa Tchachia, which I asked for in the rest of my resignation and for which I will propose a resolution at the next cabinet session, not defending it but now I want to present to the public the following, we are entering the campaign there were threats both to me personally and to the HDZ and to the leading people of the HDZ. We have not addressed various threats to the interior ministry since we have already entered the election campaign. In pre-election time. We felt that we couldn't leave it to the amateurs who came to us from the party, from party membership, that they would run security because they were gatherings reminding you, out of 7 grand, 8 grand, 10 grand, 12 grand to Split where there were tens of thousands on Procuratives. And these sets of security measures that you know about, because you probably didn't participate in so many meetings because you can't organize them. But maybe on a smaller one. Well, you know how important it is that we spend everything as we have to and as we do on such insurance gatherings. In that sense, we hired Stipe Chachia, who did a great job, but it can't justify him for these other procedures in terms of and this case if he has a son, did he confirm that, whether he didn't accept the alimony. That's what I can't stop at all, and that's why I'm going to ask for, to accept his term of office, which he's made available, he's asked for a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u613	Mr. Prime Minister, I am extremely dissatisfied with your response. Because first I didn't. Because first I didn't ask you at all if you had raised one part of the MUPA to the level of administration or not, it was entirely your thing, and quite legitimately it wasn't the subject of my question. But you have now confirmed in your answer that this same Stipe Cacic was the head of HDZ security. And he was at a time before retirement, so he was an active soldier. You knew he was breaking the law and you helped him. And in that lies your political responsibility. That's what I asked you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u614	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u615	Mr. President of the Parliament, Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm referring the question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader. The speaker did not engage and sent a message that the economy could also have a basis for further strong development, given that political Croatia is very stable. I estimate that there will be some problems with changes in the Croatian administration because it will require time, adjustment. And it can have certain negative reprecisions to growth of the economy, stability of the economy. And that's why I think it's very important that we also have programmes to reduce unemployment, care about the number of unemployed. So I'm asking if you're preparing programs or some activities related to controlling the number of unemployed. Activities to reduce the unemployed and at which time the government could accept such programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u616	Mr. Linic, yes, one of the most important problems is the problem of unemployment in Croatia. And I'll tell you very openly and directly without a lot of twisting. We intend to solve it in a way that promotes small and medium entrepreneurship. The state can detect this problem can consider it as most important as we do. But it cannot be dealt with by direct measures through direct procedures and cannot be solved by infrastructure projects. It can only do so for a limited time. And it can only solve a limited number of jobs. Systemic solutions are by encouraging small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. It was also in the programme and your government, and we want even stronger intensification of different we have a package of seven measures to go before the Croatian Parliament. We want, therefore, and partly in fiscal policy especially in the case where these entrepreneurs were small or medium-oriented towards exports. We want to do this to encourage this to address the problem of unemployment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u617	/Speaker not enabled, not understood/...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u618	Well, now I said there'd be a package of seven measures. Seven different programs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u619	Ladies and gentlemen, there are two other MPs left. We've made a record one. There was almost no long agenda, and I think I suggest we avoid a number of titles at the next current before noon because time is leaking. The current morning is over. The session of the Committee on Selection, Appointment and Administrative Affairs is now. At 13:30. We'll continue at 1600 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. Thank you for your patience with all the MPs and MPs who have waited until this job of agreeing and working on the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs is completed. I would like the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of Mr Branimir Glavas to submit a report on the Committee's proposals on the selection of the working bodies of delegations. Here you go. We're going in a row, so we're going to go to the polls as soon as we get out.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u626	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The selection and appointment committee has made a decision on these proposals that I will now inform you of. And individually, as I present the committee, I would suggest that the debate be opened and voted immediately. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of members on the election of vice-presidents and three members of the Obor for election, appointment and administrative work of the Croatian Parliament. The responsibilities of members of the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament Branko Bačić are hereby dismissed. The Committee for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament elects: for Vice-President Josip Vresk, for members: Ivan Drmić, Željka Antunović and Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u627	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this proposal in the package as proposed by the Committee. Who's in? Thank you very much. Against? Abstained? Thank you very much. I find that they have been unanimously elected to, that a member of the Committee on Elections and Designs and Administrative Affairs has been dismissed, Mr Branko Bacic. Appointed Vice-President Josip Vresk and members Ivan Drmic, Željka Antunović and Gordana Sobol. Thank you very much. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u628	Proposal for a decision on the election of a Vice-President and a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament elects: as Vice-President, Mrs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, as member: Mr Ivica Racan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u629	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this proposal from the Committee. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system has been elected as Vice-President of Mrs. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović and a member of the representative Mr. Ivica Racan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u630	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of presidents and the election of vice-presidents and members of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. The chairman of the Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Josip Leko, is hereby dismissed. The President of the Croatian Parliament's Committee on Legislatives is elected: Mr Florian Boras. The Vice-President of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament is elected: Mr. Josip Leko. Representatives: Drazen Bošnjaković and Mrs. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović are elected to the Committee for the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u631	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Committee's proposal as a whole. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? No one. Thank you very much. I find that the committee president, Mr. Joseph Leco, has been unanimously resolved and elected vice president of the Committee. Mr Florian Boras has been elected as chairman of the Legislative Committee, and for members of Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović and Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u632	Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament is elected: Mr. Neven Jurica, Vice-President Nikola Ivaniš, for members: Gordan Jandroković, Krešimir Čosić, Frano Matušić, Danira Nakić, Mario Zubović, Kyo Bučan, Tonino Picula, Marin Jurjevic, Zlatko Tomčić, Jozo Radoš and Anto Đapić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u633	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Committee's proposal as a whole. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? There isn't. Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously, the members of Gordan Jandroković, Krešimir Čosić, Frano Matušić, Danira Nakić, Mario Zubović, Kyo Bucan, Tonino Picula, Marin Jurjević, Zlatko Tomčić, Jozo Radoš and Anto Djapić have been elected unanimously to the Committee on Foreign Policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u634	Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament elects: Mr Ivan Jarnjak, Vice-President Šime Lučin, for members: representatives Branimir Pasecki, Krešimir Čosić, Živko Nenadić, Mato Štimac, Tomislav Čuljak, Niko Rebić, Mirko Filipović, Damir Kajin, Ante Markov, Sreko Ferenčak and representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u635	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Committee's proposal. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? That's it. Thank you. I would like to conclude that the choice has been made unanimously by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security for President Ivan Jarnjak, Vice-President Šima Lucin, for members Branimir Pasecky, Krešimir Ćosić, Zivko Nenadić, Mato Štimac, Tomislav Čuljak, Niko Rebić, Mirko Filipović, Damir Kajin, Ante Markov, Sreko Ferenčak and Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u636	Proposal for a decision to elect a president with the president of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Finance and the state budget of the Croatian Parliament are being elected. For the president, Mr. Šime Prtenjač, Vice-President Mr. Luka Roić, for members of MPs Marko Širac, Milan Meden, Željko Nenadić, Nevenka Majdenić, Damir Spainčić, Mato Churchvenac, Dragica Zgrebec, Snježana Biga-Friganovic, Damir Kajin and representative Radimir Cačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u637	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on this proposal. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? There isn't. I find that the unanimous Committee on Finance and the State Budget has been elected Šime Prtenjač for the President, Luka Roić for the Vice President and members Marko Širac, Milan Meden, Željko Nenadić, Nevenka Majdenić, Damir Spainčić, Josip Sudec, Mato Churchvenac, Dragica Zgrebec, Snježana Biga-Friganovic, Damir Kajin and Radimir Cačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u638	Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament is elected: Mr Gordan Jandroković, Vice-President Dragica Zgrebec, representatives of Jure Bitunjac, Krunoslav Markovović, Zdravko Sočković, Petar Mlinarić, Ivan Gučić, Dragutin Pukleš, Ljubo Jurčić, Miroslav Korenika, Valter Porodak, Željko Pecek and representative tonči Tadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u639	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on this proposal. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? Thank you. I find that, unanimously, the members of the Committee on Economy and Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament have been elected President Goran Jandroković, Vice President Dragica Zgrebec and members of Jure Bitunjac, Krunoslav Markovnović, Zdravko Sočković, Petar Mlinarić, Ivan Gučić, Dragutin Pukleš, Ljubo Jurčić, Miroslav Korenika, Valter Poropad, Željko Pecek and Tonči Tadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u640	Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament elects: for President Ante Markov, for Vice-President Milan Meden, for members of MPs Ivan Drmić, Irena Ahel, Kayo Bucan, Šime Prtenjača, Vladmir Šišljagić, Vladimir Pleško, Zdenko Antešić, Jagoda Martic, Ljubo Jurčić, Valter Drandić and representative Branko Vojnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u641	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this proposal. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that, unanimously, in the Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament, they were elected presidents Ante Markov, Vice President Milan Meden and members Ivan Drmić, Irena Ahel, Kyo Bucan, Šime Prtenjača, Vladmir Šišljagić, Vladimir Pleško, Zdenko Antešić, Jagoda Martic, Ljubo Jurčić, Valter Drandić and Branko Vojnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u642	Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Assembly elects: for the President, MP Furio Radin, for Vice-President Ratko Gajic, for members of MPs Milorad Pupovac, Zdenka Čuhnil, Nikola Mak, Šemso Tanković, Jane Adam, Stjepan Bačić, Niko Rebić, Ivanka Roksandić, Ivana Sučec-Trakoštanec, Vesna Škulić, Vice-Vukov, Dorotea Pešić-Bukovac, Pejo Trječević from HSP, as 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u643	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u644	Complemented, updated.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u645	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this proposal. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? Thank you. I note that in the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, they were unanimously elected as President Furio Radin, Vice-President Ratko Gajic and members of Milorad Pupovac, Zdenka Čuhnil, Nikola Mak, Šemso Tanković, Jane Adam, Stjepan Bačić, Niko Rebić, Ivanka Roksandić, Ivana Sučec-Tracoštanec, Vesna Škulić, Vice-Vukov, Dorotea Pešić-Bukovac and Pejo Trječević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u646	Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament is elected: for the President, Representative Emil Tomljanović, Vice-President William Herman, for the members of MPs Drazen Bošnjaković, Ana Lovrin, Branimir Glavas, Florijan Boras, Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec, Damir Sesvečan, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Josip Leko, Ivo Josipović, Zdenko Haramija and Darko Shantić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u647	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this proposal. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that, unanimously, the Committee on Justice has been elected President Emil Tomalović, Vice-President William Herman, members of Drazen Bošnjaković, Ana Lovrin, Branimir Glavas, Florian Boras, Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec, Damir Sesvečan, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Josip Leko, Ivo Josipović, Zdenko Haramija and Darko Shantić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u648	Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health of the Croatian Parliament elects: for the President, Representative Marko Turić, Vice-President Snježana Biga-Friganović and for members of representatives Stjepan Bačić, Kayo Bučan, Karmela Caparin, Vladimir Šišljagić, Drago Prgomet, Silvano Hrelja, Vesna Škulić, Davorko Vidović, Željka Antunović, Ljubica Lalić and representative Nikola Ivanis.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u649	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. In conclusion, I am voting on this proposal. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the unanimous Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health has been elected President Marko Turic, Vice-President Snježana Biga-Friganovic, members of Stjepan Bačić, Kyo Bucan, Karmela Caparin, Vladimir Šišljagić, Drago Prgomet, Silvano Hrelja, Vesna Škulić, Davorko Vidović, Željka Antunović, Ljubica Lalic and Nikola Ivaniš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u650	Proposal for a decision to elect a president, vice-president of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee for Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament is elected: For the president, MP Davorko Vidović. For Vice-President Marija Bajt and for MPs Ivan Bagarić, Lucija Čikes, Perica Bukić, Franjo Arapović, Darko Milinović, Danira Milić, Milanka Opačić, Biserka Perman, Ivan Kolar, Srecko Ferenčak and Miroslav Rožić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u651	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I'm voting on this proposal. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports has been elected President Davorko Vidović, Vice President Marija Bajt for Members Ivan Bagarić, Lucija Čikes, Perica Bukić, Franjo Arapović, Darko Milinović, Danira Milić, Milanka Opačić, Biserka Perman, Ivan Kolar, Srecko Ferenčak and Miroslav Rožić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u652	Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Parliament is elected: For the President, MP Zdenka Babić-Petričević, Vice-President Valter Poropat. For members of MPs Drago Prgomet, Ivan Bagarić, Stjepan Fiolić, Josip Đapić, Ratko Gajica, Ana Lovrin, Ivica Pančić, Vice Vukov, Anton Peruško, Zdenko Haramija and representative Ruža Tomašić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u653	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. I'm closing up. I'm voting on this proposal. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously, the members of Drago Prgomet, Ivan Bagarić, Stjepan Fiolić, Josip Đapić, Ratko Gajica, Ana Lovrin, Ivica Pančić, Vice-President Vice-President Vice-President, Vice-President of the Republic of Croatia, Vice-President of the Republic of Croatia, Vice-President of the Republic of Croatia, Vice-President of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u654	Proposal for a decision to elect a president, a vice president, and a member of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament elects: For the President, MP Vlado Jukić, for Vice-President Josip Djapić, for members of representatives Željko Krapljan, Petar Mlinarić, Tomislav Čuljak, Bozica Šolić, Živko Nenadić, Mato Brletić, Ivica Pančić, Davorko Vidović, Mate Gavran, Željko Kurtov. It is 10 members, the 11th member is reserved for LS, so for the Liberal Party, however, the Liberal Party has not submitted its proposal, so the 11th place will remain vacant for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u655	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on this proposal. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously, the members of the Committee on War Veterans were elected President Vlado Jukic, Vice President Josip Djapić, for members Željko Krapljan, Petar Mlinarić, Tomislav Čuljak, Bozica Šolić, Živko Nenadić, Mato Brletić, Ivica Pančić, Davorko Vidović, Mate Gavran, Željko Kurtov. With 11 being elected later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u656	The next proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. For President Slavko Linić, Vice-President Marko Širac, for members Mirjana Brnadić, Nikola Sopčić, Jure Bitunjac, Krunoslav Markovović, Zdravko Sočković, Ivan Vukić, Mato Gavran, Zdenko Antešić, William Herman, Zlatko Tomčić and Alemka Košina Čičin-Sain. Did I read it right?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u657	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on this proposal. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I would like to conclude that, unanimously, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection has been elected as President Slavko Linić, Vice President Marko Širac, members Mirjana Brnadić, Nikola Sopčić, Jure Bitunjac, Krunoslav Markovnović, Zdravko Sočković, Ivan Vučić, Mato Gavran, Zdenko Antešić, William Herman, Zlatko Tomčić and Alemka Košisa Cicin-Sain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u658	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament elects: Petar Selem, Vice-President Željko Pavlic, MPs Ms. Marija Bajt, Katarina Fuček, Ivanka Roksandić, Jagoda Martinčević, representatives Frano Matušić, Ivan Čehok, Antun Vujić, representative Marija Lugarić, Jelena Pavičević-Vukičević, Zdenka Chuhnil and Mrs. Vesna Pusić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u659	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on this proposal. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I note that in the Committee on Education Science and Cultures, they were unanimously elected President Petar Selem, Vice President Željko Pavlic, for members Marija Bajt, Katarina Fuček, Ivanka Roksandić, Jagoda Martinčević, Frano Matušić, Ivan Čehok, Antun Vujic, Marija Lugarić, Jelena Pavić Vukičević, Zdenka Čuhnil and Vesna Pusić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u660	Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament elects: Representative Bozidar Pankretić, Vice-President Ivo Lončar. For members of MPs, for members of MPs: Stjepan Fiolić, Marko Široc, Vladimir Kurečić, Mato Šimac, Damir Spainčić, Dragutin Pukleš, Mato Arlović, Dragica Zgrebec, Ivan Kolar, Željko Pavlic and Željko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u661	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this proposal. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that, unanimously, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has been elected President Bozidar Pankretić, Vice President Ivo Lončar, members: Stjepan Fiolić, Marko Širac, Vladimir Kurečić, Mato Štimac, Damir Spainčić, Dragutin Pukleš, Mato Arlović, Dragica Zgrebec, Ivan Kolar, Željko Pavlic and Željko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u662	Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament is elected: for the President, Representative Radimir Cacic, Vice-President Zivko Nenadić. For members of MPs: Ivan Vučić, Željko Krapljan, Nikola Sopčić, Zdravko Sočković, Zvonimir Puljic, Jozo Topić, Slavko Linić, Antun Peruško, Šime Lučin, Željko Pecek, Dorotea Pešić Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u663	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this proposal. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that, unanimously, the members of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications have been elected President Radimir Čačić, Vice President Živko Nenadić, members Ivan Vukic, Željko Krapljan, Nikola Sopčić, Zdravko Sočković, Zvonimir Puljic, Jozo Topić, Slavko Linić, Antun Peruško, Šime Lučin, Željko Pecek and Dorotea Pešić Bukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u664	Proposal for a decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament is elected: for the president, MP Anto Djapic, Vice-President Ivan Drmic. For members of the representatives: Zdenka Babić-Petričević, Bozica Šolić, Irena Ahel, Vladimir Pleško, Jozo Topić, Željko Nenadić, Miroslav Korenika, Jelena Pavicić-Vukičević, Ljubica Brdarić and Zdenko Haramija. The 11th member, as in the previous committee, did not submit a proposal to the LS. So the 11th member remains incomplete.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u665	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this proposal. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that, unanimously, the Committee on Presentations and Appeals has been elected: for President Anto Djapic, Vice-President Ivan Drmic. For members: Zdenka Babić-Petričević, Bozica Šolić, Irena Ahel, Vladimir Pleško, Jozo Topić, Željko Nenadić, Miroslav Korenika, Jelena Pavić-Vukičević, Ljubica Brdarić and Zdenko Haramija.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u666	Proposal for a decision on the election of the president and vice-president of the Interparliamentary Cooperation Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee for Interparliamentary Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament is elected: Mr. Milorad Pupovac, president. For Vice-President Tonci Tadic. No more.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u667	Thank you. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u668	This is where they enter as members representatives of all delegations. It means the president and vice president. For President Milorad Pupovac, for Vice President Tonci Tadic. Interparliamentary cooperation of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u669	I am voting on this proposal. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that, unanimously, the Committee on Interparliamentary Cooperation has been elected: for President Milorad Pupovac, Vice-President Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u670	Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Committee on European Integration of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on European Integrations of the Croatian Parliament is elected: for the president, MP Neven Mimica, Vice-President Vladimir Kurečić. For members of MPs: Petar Selem, Gordan Jandroković, Milan Meden, Lucija Čikes, Ruža Lelic, Vojislav Stanimirović, Zvonimir Mršić, Ljubo Jurčić, Zdenka Čuhnil and Miljenko Doric. I'm sorry, Miljenko Doric plus Ruža Tomasic, was later placed with manuscripts from the Croatian party of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u671	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I'm voting on this proposal. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that, unanimously, the Committee on European Integrations has been elected: for President Neven Mimic, Vice-President Vladimir Kurečić, for members: Petar Selem, Gordan Jandroković, Milan Meden, Lucija Čikes, Ruža Lelic, Vojislav Stanimirović, Zvonimir Mršić, Ljubo Jurčić, Zdenka Čuhnil, Miljenko Doric and Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u672	Proposal for a decision on the selection of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament elects: for the president of the representative Željka Antunović, Vice-President Katarina Fuček. For representatives: Lino Červar, Ivica Klem, Jagoda Martinčević, Nevenka Majdanić, Perica Bukić, Đurđa Adlešić, Nenad Stazić, Antun Vujic, Luka Rojić, Antun Kapraljevic and Tonči Tadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u673	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I'm voting on this proposal. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that the unanimous Committee on Information and Information and Media has been elected President Željka Antunović, Vice-President Katarina Fuček, members Lino Cervar, Ivica Klem, Jagoda Martinčević, Nevenka Majedenić, Perica Bukić, Đurđa Adlešić, Nenad Stazić, Antun Vujic, Luka Roić, Antun Kapraljevic and Tonči Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u674	Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected, president of Parliament Gordana Sobol, Vice-President Carmela Caparin, for members Lino Cervar, Mirjana Brnadić, Dujomir Marasović, Željko Nenadić, Vladimir Pleško, Vojislav Stanamorović, Ljubica Brdarić, Milanka Opačić, Branko Vojnović, and Antun Kapraljevic, also 11 seats remain vacant. The LS has been scheduled, however, the proposal has also not arrived.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u675	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this proposal. Who's in? Against? Abstained? I find that, unanimously, the members of the Committee on Gender Equality were elected President Gordana Sobol, Vice-President Carmela Caparin, Lino Cervar, Mirjana Brnadić, Dujomir Marasović, Željko Nenadić, Vladimir Pleško, Vojislav Stanimorović, Ljubica Brdarić, Milanka Opačić, Branko Vojnović, and Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u676	Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee for Local and Regional Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament is elected, for the president, Mršić, for the vice-president, Mr Zvonimir Puljic, for the members of representatives Krunoslav Markovinović, Ivica Vukić, Ivica Klem, Marija Bajt, Nikola Sopčić, Jene Adam, Marin Jurjevic, Mato Churchvenac, Bozidar Pankretić, Dragutin Lesar and Pejo Trječević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u677	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on this proposal. Who's for please? Against? Abstained? I find that the unanimous Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government has been elected as President of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, Mršić, Vice-President Zvonimir Puljic, members of Krunoslav Markovnović, Ivica Vukic, Ivica Klem, Marija Bajt, Nikola Sopčić, Jene Adam, Marin Jurjevic, Mato Churchvenac, Bozidar Pankretić, Dragutin Lesar and Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u678	Now we've finished our committees. We now have the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament in the interparliamentary union. For the chairman of the Executive Board, Mr. Valter Drandić of the IDS, Dr. Lucija Cikes of HDZ, members of Perica Bukić HDZ, Franjo Arabović HDZ, Silvano Hrelja HSU, Alenka Kosisa Cicin-Sain and Marija Lugaric of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u679	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u680	The debate is open, it's not closed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u681	Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u682	... [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u683	... I didn't say anything, but I didn't know any HNS now, but I told SDP about Mrs. Maria Lugaric, and here I left the party. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u684	Thank you. It's clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u685	Not on purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u686	I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on this proposal. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? Now I'd like to ask that list, I don't have it to read. I find that, unanimously, the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament has been elected by the Interparliamentary Union as President Valter Drandić, Vice-President Lucija Čikes for the members of Perica Bukić, Franjo Arapović, Silvano Hrelja, Alenka Košisa Cicin-Sain and Marija Lugarić. Who's up for this proposal? Did we vote? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u687	Proposal for a decision on the election of the Croatian Parliament delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. As part of this decision, however, we should have chosen a secretary, but the secretary has not yet been proposed, so this time we will skip it later. The delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is being elected, as the leader of Mr Frano Matušić of HDZ. For a member, M. Neven Jurica of HDZ, Dr. Milorad Pupovac of the SDSS, Mrs. Snježana Biga-Friganovic of the SDP, and the 4th place has also not been filled with LS has not submitted his proposal. For the deputy members, Ms Danira Bilic of HDZ, Mrs Ruža Lelic of HDZ, Mr Miljenko Doric of HNS, Mr Slaven Letica of HSP and Mr Neven Mimic of the SDP. Do you need to do it again? So, here only missing 4 members who are scheduled to LS-, the proposal has not come yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u688	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this proposal. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that, unanimously, the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has been elected as the leader of Frano Matušić... for the members of Neven Jurica, Milorad Pupovac, Snjezana Biga-Friganovic, the fourth member remains for the election, for the deputy members of Daniela Bilic, Ruža Lelic, Miljenko Doljić, Slaven Letica and Neven Mimica [[no switch]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u689	The delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Security and Co-operation Organisation will then follow. For the leader and member of Mr. Tonino Picula. The other two members are Mr Mario Zubovic and Gordan Jandrokovic. Tonino Picula SDP, Zubovic, Jandrokovic HDZ. Deputy members, Mr Petar Selem HDZ, Mr Jozo Radoš-LIBRA and Mr Miroslav Rozic-HSP. Here, unlike the previous case, we will choose a secretary of delegation, i.e. the proposal exists, Mr Milovan Petković, secretary of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament, civil servant in the professional service of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u690	Thank you very much. I'm opening up the debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on this proposal. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that unanimously in the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation have been elected as a leader, is that right here? It's Mr. Tonino Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u691	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u692	Okay. For members Mario Zubović, Gordan Jandroković. As deputy members Petar Selem, Jozo Radoš and Miroslav Rožic and delegation secretary Milovan Petkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u693	Okay. And another delegation. It is the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. For the head of the delegation, MP Krešimir Ćosic from HDZ and for members of Velimir Pleksa from HDZ and Mr Marin Jurjevic from SDP. We also don't have a proposal from the delegation's secretary for what we're going to choose, or what we're going to propose after.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u694	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this proposal. Please, who's in? Against? Abstained? Thank you. I find that, unanimously, the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly has been elected as head of the delegation Krešimir Cosic and members of Velimir Plesa and Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u695	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u696	Thank you very much. And what about the chairman of the Committee with a proposal to elect members of the Committee for Conflict of Interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u697	As regards the proposal of members of the Committee for Conflict of Interest, the Committee for Elections and Designation decided to resolve this item of the agenda tomorrow or the day after further proposals by other parties were completed. We have also had a proposal from the HDZ, the SDP but there are other parties that have not proposed, so we propose that during tomorrow these proposals be aligned between the parties and there are no problems, we will call a session during tomorrow or the day after tomorrow and we will do so as part of this session.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u698	Thank you very much and then I ask the club representatives, club presidents to deliver their proposals during tomorrow to the chairman of the Election and Appointing Committee so that this important body of the Croatian Parliament can be chosen. Just one more moment, we only have one more proposal and this is the proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of the deputy secretary of the Croatian Parliament and the secretary of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 41. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. It is about the resolution and appointment of Mrs. Jadranka Blažević as secretary of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament and the deputy secretary of the Croatian Parliament. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Please, who's in favour of this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. I note that Mrs Jadranka Blažević, unanimously, was appointed deputy secretary of the Croatian Parliament and secretary of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. ... And just two more brief notices. [[Applause.]] The first session of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction will be held immediately in Chamber 202nd floor. Both the first session of the Committee on Finance and the state budget will be held immediately. She was called in by the president as well as the first in Hall 133 first floor. It was called by the chairmans of the Committee Gordan Jandroković, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction and the President of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, Mr Sime Prtenjac. We start tomorrow at 9.30. The first item is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. We'll see about that. Thank you very much. I'm interrupting the session. Resume tomorrow at 9.30. And now just to go back to, to fill in some more individuals between the committees and the delegations, we appoint certain committees. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appoint and Administrative Affairs, Mr Branimir Glavas, to explain the proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u700	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs held its session today to supplement these committees and various committees, as foreseen under this agenda item. Therefore, I would like to inform you that the Committee has made a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The delegation of the Croatian Parliament in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is elected, as a member of Dr Ivo Banac of the Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u701	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please, who's in favour of this proposal? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Abstained? I find that, unanimously with 86 votes, MP Ivo Banac has been elected to the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u702	Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Croatian War Veterans Committee. The Croatian Parliament's War Veterans Committee is elected, as a member of Dr Zlatko Kramaric, also from the Liberal Party, by the LS proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u703	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose to put the motion to the vote. Here, who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I note that with 86 votes for the Council of War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament, he was elected member of the delegation Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u704	Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament is elected as a member of Dr Ivo Banac, also proposed by the Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u705	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on this proposal. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that, with 86 votes for the Committee on Gender Equality, MP Ivo Banac has been elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u706	Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament's Presentation and Appeals Committee is elected as a member of Dr Zlatko Kramaric, also a proposal from the Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u707	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I note that with 86 votes for the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for a member, MP Zlatko Kramaric has been elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u708	Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. For members of the Committee for Decision-Making of Conflict of Interest are named, from the ranks of Croatian Parliament MP Marija Bajt, representative Milanka Opačić, representative of Đurđa Adlešić, representative of Ratko Gajica. Reputable public workers, professor Dr. Željko Horvatić, a regular professor at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb. Doctor Davor Derencinović, professor at the Department of Criminal Law at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb. Professor Dr. Josip Kregar, a regular professor at the Faculty of Law at the University of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u709	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic, please. On behalf of the SDP Club, HSP, go ahead. We're a little tired already, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u710	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is the commission to be chosen according to which the deadlines were due two months ago, it's number one. But there goes the choice of committee beyond the legal hands. In any case, the Law on Conflict of Interest states that this is primarily an ethical commission which will determine the cases of conflict of interest of government officials. After several long discussions, several readings of the law, the alignment of the Croatian party's proposal of rights that it put into the procedure, the government which also put its proposal in the process and when it was finally passed, unfortunately it was not, the deadlines were not respected, and then the vote was called out, and there was a call by this Parliament, and finally, with a delay of 4 months, it was trying to finally form this commission to decide on a conflict of interest. The fact is, the law has also made it perfectly clear that the composition of this commission is clear. The law states that the composition of the commission consists of 4 representatives of the Croatian Parliament and 3 members from the ranks of prominent public employees. It is also a fact that the proposal for the selection and appointment of this Committee is given by the Committee for Selection and Designation. However, it is also a fact that because of the way the legal norms for the selection of this commission and one total ignoring in the timing, the time to meet these legal deadlines and the adoption and the absence of any business provisions of the Croatian Parliament on the work of the Commission itself are also here we are now in a position that Mr Vlas as chairman of the Committee on Elections and Appointment has put forward a single proposal. In fact, ignoring the fact that it was a session of the Committee on Elections and Appoints, all members of that Committee left the ranks of the opposition, except for one member from the HNS. In fact, why did we leave the session and why were we restructured by Mr. Glavas' proposal? For the simple reason that gentlemen of these seven members, as proposed by Mr Glavas here on behalf of the election board, on behalf of the 7-members Committee, 6 are proposed by the HDZ or by the parliamentary majority. I don't suppose there's anyone in this assembly who's not aware of the fact that the composition of this commission is the fact that the law says that the president of this committee has to be of the order of opposition, is actually talking about the intensity of this committee's membership. And that intensity is that the ruling majority does not actually rule and does not have a majority president in that commission. When the law was passed, HDZ voted precisely for that urgency. In his debate, he mentioned exactly that urgency that the president of the commission would be of the order of opposition and that there would be no majorisation within that commission by the majority. In order of course to do so then, it was probably advocated by the fact that HDZ was then a minority and opposition when the law was passed. Now that HDZ is the majority and ruling, it's just being rough on that principle. To confirm that, I'll tell you like this. Of the 4 members of MPs 3 who proposed the Committee on Elections, the appointments of 7 members of that Committee from the parliamentary majority are, therefore, 3 members from 4 of us here are proposed 2 members from the HDZ, 1 member from the SDSS and 1 member from the order of the SDP as from the lines of opposition. So first the principle of ratio 2:2. Two from the ranks of the majority, two from the ranks of the opposition. That principle was agreed. When we asked as an objection to an explanation at the Committee's session, then we got this explanation that the SDSS is a representative of the SDSS opposition. So, the fact that one party in this House is on Tuesday at the distribution agreement, on the distribution of seats on committees, members of the parliamentary majority, so the SDSS then determined the ratio of 13:11 on Wednesday, the same party becomes a member of the opposition after Mr Glavas' interpretation. So, we asked the question, shall we, ladies and gentlemen, in every appointment in this House, start over and redefine who belongs to the parliamentary majority and who belongs to the parliamentary minority? Will one pathetic vice president of the Parliament belong to the majority in the morning and belong to the minority in the afternoon, depending on the position of the sun in the sky? Or might the same party be an opposition Tuesday and Wednesday's ruling moon-to-sun position? Or I don't know by what criteria. On Tuesday, we elected Mr. Pupovac as chairman of the Committee on Interparliamentary Cooperation as members of the parliamentary majority on the HDZ proposal. Also, on that same Tuesday, we elected Mr. Gajic as vice-president of the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities of the majority. To elect Mr Gajic in the election today, the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest as members of the minority, or opposition. Well, did that make any sense? We keep at the Croatian Party Club the right to be violent. Violence against democracy, violence against healthy memory, violence against the Rules of Procedure, violence against agreements, violence against parliamentary practice, that this is beyond the reach of good taste, as is usually said and I will say here beyond the reach of bad taste. So do you really want to continue like this, out of the 7 members of 6 to be the parliamentary majority proposal, then I will really ask my colleagues from the opposition parties, and here I forgot to mention that all the opposition parties had their joint proposal for 2 members of that Committee in the lines of opposition. And that these two members, it doesn't matter which, you have the materials in front of you, so look, and that all parties of the opposition really had a joint proposal for 3 external members, I note here that there is no rules of procedure at all how and in what way the Committee on Elections and Appoints is proposed by prominent and public persons, but all three of the prominent public figures that he has proposed here, therefore, Mr. Glavas are actually a proposal from the HDZ. All three, so Professor Zeljko Horvatic, Dr. Davor Derencinovic, note bene his assistant, and Professor Josip Kregar. All three were proposed by the HDZ Club and all the drawings here in the proposal. None of the agreed opposition proposals entered into the composition of the so-called committee here. Neither of these three agreed I repeat the proposal to oppose all opposition parties. And in these of the members, Mr Gajica or SDSS, who was still in the parlamentary majority yesterday when we discussed and brought appointments to committees today became a representative of the opposition. According to Mr. Glavas. If that's where you imagine parliamentary work, then you really pissed at us. You've been eating at us. Because I assume that in the next appointment we will again determine who actually belongs to 80 members of the parliamentary majority, and who among those 72 parliamentary minorities, or opposition. In any case, if you continue, and if you really insist on such a thing, by continuing this kind of violence against parliamentary practice and democracy, I will ask my colleagues from the SDP and Mrs. Milanka Opačić to withdraw their candidacy, and then gentlemen choose all 7 on the HDZ proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u711	Please. Yes, sir. Mr. Glavas, I should've got here a copy of the wrong quote. Okay. You also have the right to correct an incorrect quote, then in harmony with it and on behalf of the board from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u712	On behalf of the Committee. Mr. Rosic, please. For election and appointments on behalf of the Committee, yes. And I don't address you as Mr. Rozic as you address me as Mr. Glavas. You are for me a member of the Committee on Selection and Appointment and a respected parliamentary prisoner. And I have no intention of leading the controversy with you. But I want this honorable home answered and introduced to the fact. Which you've been twisting to make the public feel better. It's just that you still lack television cameras to get that untruth out. That's awesome. He is called on to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. It correctly regulates how this commission is drawn up and Article 16(3) says. The four members of the commission are members of the Croatian Parliament and the other members are prominent public officials, with two members of the commission unable to be from the same political party. So four members from the fourth party. In the name of the ruling majority relative or absolute you understand how you want to go, that's your right, I made a proposal, four members per party. And on behalf of the ruling majority relative or absolute you understand how you want to go, I made a proposal, three outside members. The Committee also voted on your proposals, your personal proposals. As far as I can remember, it's not what you're saying that everything about the repurchase parties had a unique point of view. It's not true, it's just not true. The different parties to the opposition presented their various proposals. However, as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the Committee, a proposal, one or three, and this proposal by the ruling majority relative or absolute, it is not important to understand how you want to get the necessary majority so that the committee can make a decision. And therefore, Mr. President of the Committee on Selection and Appointment, the Honorable Representative Rosic, it is not true that we have made decisions beyond the legal provisions, but we have strictly adhered to the legal provisions. It is not true that we have exceeded the legal powers, but that we have adhered to the frameworks of legal and business powers that undermine the work within the Committee. It is not true that you left all the session, from the ranks of the opposition, at the session remained a representative of HNS and HSS, so at the invitation of the SDP he later came out. The Committee worked within 8 members out of 13 and made decisions with an absolute majority not relative. By absolute majority of 7 to 1. Nothing else was trampled on, no principles, no law at least. You didn't get Mr. Glavas' explanation as you said SDS was an opposition, that's not what I said. I just said that the Croatian Democratic Community and the SDSS are not coalition partners because they did not sign a coalition agreement. Therefore, I did not say that the SDSS opposition is what you said, tossing my words just as Croatian television turned it around tonight. Same thing. And no violence against intelligence has been committed, no violence against the law has been committed, no violence against the Rules of Procedure has been committed, but the Committee has been working according to the law, according to common sense. By interpreting the law and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u713	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u714	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President of the Committee on Elections and Appointment, Your Honor, Mr. Glavas. I didn't say anywhere that we overstepped, that the board overstepped any legal powers, I didn't say that. I've said that the board has exceeded all legal deadlines. Rocks. Keep going. You have now quoted the items of the law, why you did not quote an item saying that the president of that committee must be of the order of the opposition, or that it cannot be of the ruling party. That's what the law says, you're the one who set it. You've determined it by actually having a single representative of the opposition in your proposal. My way? You just said you didn't say the SDSS was an opposition party. And you said that exactly because I told you if it was only Mrs. Milanka Opačić's proposal it would mean that she was automatically president of the so-called committee because she was the only representative of the opposition. That's what you answered me, because the truth SDSS is also an opposition. It's an correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u715	Thank you very much, Mr. Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u716	I didn't twist it, and he didn't twist the HTVs either. And we're not all crazy by definition, and you're always right. And I didn't say violence against any law, I said violence against democracy and violence against parliamentary practice...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u717	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u718	Because you're actually here saying now there's no agreement between parliamentary parties. You said there was no agreement for two members to be from the opposition...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u719	I thank my colleague, Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u720	Two members of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u721	I thank my colleague, Rosic. We've already run out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u722	Because that deal exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u723	Comrade Rosic, please. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS and PGS, the respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u724	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Let's make a note. It is not true that all opposition parties have made a joint single proposal for the ranks, out of the ranks of parliamentary deputies. But it's true that as far as the outsiders are concerned, it was a unique proposal, and I'll explain it later. But what matters to me right now is far more important. At an extended session of the Parliament held a day or two ago, we received a request and a warning, a rush to give the candidacy of the members of these committees as soon as possible so that it could be chosen at this session. And then it was repeated and said -- two candidates from the majority and two from the minority. The number of representatives on one side and on the other was subject to an agreement three or four days in continuity and finally agreed and accepted that the 80:72 ratio and this system were completed at that session of the Bureau, all the different views, and that relationship was no longer questioned by anyone in any division of the mandate, running and voting for all precisely on the basis of this confirmed agreement at the extended session of the Bureau. As regards the external members, it was a direct question whether or not the outside members were also taking into account the maximum possible agreement because we had already had proposals made by the HDZ and it was made clear that it would be even good to make more proposals from outside members. The session didn't have a record or maybe a record, but I didn't get it so I could now here and document it to confirm it. But... That's right. [[You don't understand.]] And for this reason, I am surprised that today only at 48 hours after the parliamentary relationship, so I am not talking about power and opposition, but about the parliamentary majority and the parliamentary minority are different relations of forces. This is not good because if we once accepted that rule, with the note of Mr President, that this relationship is worth it and that we must respect it in the distribution of these mandates, not in political relations and everything else. However, the change in mathematics was also present during the co-ordination of the opposition. I read in the paper today that we shared the mandates in Mr. Tomcic's famous formula. It now looks like this to me, this is the third formula - in the morning in this Parliament the rules of the game of the Croatian Football Federation, afternoon or noon UEF, and the afternoon or evening of the FIF. And no matter how you stick to the rules, you're never sure you're holding on to anything good. We tried to reconcile the proposals, but in today's distribution of opposition quotas and there was a change in formula. There was new math there today. Tomb 2, I guess. And that's why we made our proposal and stayed on board. And because it's a sensitive issue that obviously hasn't been devoted enough time to try to negotiate, Mr. President, we're giving you an appeal and a request and a proposal. Don't vote this now. Let's make an effort to resolve the misunderstandings tomorrow and make the decision after making it not subject to public tension because citizens can blame us for that, under the title of trying to obstruct the formation of the commission. I don't think there's gonna be a beam 12 hours later if we start it, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u725	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the respected representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u726	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Who is the parliamentary majority and who is the parliamentary minority? That's the key question for this appointment. Even this morning when we were choosing Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic as vice president of the House, Mr. Luka Bebic, who led the session, said the proposal on behalf of the parliamentary majority and listing all parties to the parliamentary majority also listed the SDSS. By tonight, the SDSS seems to have changed its position as regards the parliamentary majority, or parliamentary minority. That's not true. The SDSS did not move from majority to minority, but thus interpreted the HDZ for very clear reasons. Because that's how it suits him, and I'm gonna prove why it suits him. Just because this debate is held at 9 a.m. without the presence of cameras, without the possibility of the public in direct transmission watching what is happening here in HDZ shows a desire, intent and accomplishes its intention to take this, this topic down or do without the eyes of the public. I assure you you won't get away with it. We'll be interested in the Croatian public. We're going to be interested in the press because this commission is unusually important. It's falling gold, makeup falling off HDZ's face. All the arrangements, all the assurances that HDZ will play fair, that it is a party that has changed and that will no longer behave in the way it has behaved for 10 years with this proposal, this way of working falls into the water. We're dealing with the same HDZ again. The debate is under way...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u727	... It's a track. [[You don't understand.]] A fellow Stazic...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u728	It is clear to me that you are protesting because you are listening to the truth about yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u729	Please, peace in the assembly room. Comrade Stazic, I beg you to, here is the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u730	He's arguing, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u731	But he doesn't judge himself immediately in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u732	The HDZ procedure is under discussion in the appointment of this important commission, this is what it is. Mr. Shex, that's what it's all about, what's being done on the Board of Elections and Appoints today, about how you place the SDSS in the parliamentary majority early in the afternoon, and on the evening of 9:00 in the parliamentary minority. Why? To put that parliamentary minority in this important commission. That's all. It's important this commission. It will control the behavior of officials. It will control HDZ ministers' behaviour. And his mission is obvious with this ratio in which, according to the HDZ proposal, there will be six members of 7 in that commission and only one in the opposition. The HDZ will have full control over the commission, and it needs that control. Because why did you fight so hard that you had six out of seven in that commission on your own proposal? Obviously because you want to be in conflict of interest. And not only that, you are already in conflict of interest and I will prove it to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u733	I really ask you not to accuse or insinuate any party in advance, or HDZ or any party in advance to accuse them of being prepared for something illegal and amoral.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u734	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on parliamentary deputies tells officials, too, that they must not receive any other salary or compensation. Minister Hebrang at Mercury Clinical Hospital is head of the Radiology Clinic and receives a second salary and compensation. He's in conflict of interest...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u735	This has nothing to do with this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u736	I'm proving to you that you're in conflict of interest and that's why you want to name six out of seven members in that commission that will then determine that Hebrang is not in conflict of interest. Article 10 of that law states that, on January 24th, an ad appeared in the “Evening List” for the usual radiological hospital polyclinic...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u737	My colleague, please, I strongly warn you not to talk about facts that do not mean anything to this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u738	They mean a lot, because we're talking about a conflict committee...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u739	These are unverified, these are things, and we all know very well what has been published in the daily press, but do not prejudge and speculate on the possible composition, the detour and the work of this committee and that you prejudge its decisions and intentions and the intention with which this personal composition of the commission is proposed with the indictment, the pre-indiction that this commission will protect the already established conflict of interest. I'm the last time I warn you to stick to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u740	Mr. President of the Parliament, I am now handing you a photocopy of the ad published on January 24th.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u741	I guess we don't understand each other, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u742	We understand each other because you tell me to insinuate, and I offer you proof. So I'm not insinuating, I'm offering you proof. Here's a name for Dr. O'Donnell. Hebrang on a private ad...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u743	Thank you very much, Mr. Stazic. I'm just asking you one more sentence, please finish, this isn't the topic you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u744	That's the darkness.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u745	You speak, you accuse, you judge, you insinuate. Please finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u746	The topic is the commission, the topic is the appointment of members of the commission to be examined whether officials are in conflict of interest. It is unusually important for this commission to be drawn up by the letter of the law and qualified, to objectively be totally impartial with anyone asking whether an official is in conflict of interest or not. That is why the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and says it determines what the composition of this commission will be. Everything that happened today on the Committee on Elections and Appointments is becoming quite obvious that HDZ does not want to respect that letter of the law, that it does not want to allow the opposition to have sufficient numbers of members in that commission and that it wants to maintain a ratio of 6:1. I repeat that, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, it is not an accident. That's no coincidence at all. A man should be naive to believe that such things happen by accident. You went so far as to pronounce one party in the morning a parliamentary majority, and then, in the afternoon, a parliamentary minority. So you went to this extent to embarrass the public just to get a large majority in this commission now. We won't agree to that. And I prove to you that we already have reason today to keep an eye on who will be in that commission, because tomorrow this commission will have to read this ad published in the “Evening List” of Ministers, with his name and decide whether or not he is in conflict of interest at the moment when this ad is published with the name of Minister Hebrang for a private polyclinic...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u747	Thank you very much. I'm finishing the debate. Thank you very much. After multiple warnings you entered the preliminary and future decision of the future commission...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u748	She's quite certain. With this composition of ours, it is entirely certain that decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u749	Thank you very much, Mr. Stazic. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen at the January 26th session of the extended presidency with the presidents of the MP clubs, the following was concluded. As far as this is concerned, I quote: “On the basis of Article 37(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in the framework of the debate on matters of importance for the work of the Parliament agreed by all club presidents" I do not think that he was the only President of the Croatian Party of Retirement, "all agreed that the presidential and vice-presidential seats in the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and the seats in the delegations of the Croatian Parliament were distributed in such a way as to implement this in the vote on the working bodies of the Parliament and the delegations of the President of the Parliament in respect of the presidential and vice-presidential seats in all other, except those four committees, and in the delegations elected by the Croatian Parliament. There is not a single word in this agreement on the election and appointment of the commission under the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. That record was received by all club presidents so that that claim did not stand, and I am obliged to give that explanation because I led that session of the extended presidency. Secondly, I was already at a constitutive session because, after last October, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests and did not and in order to call the elections to disband the Parliament, chose a committee to prevent conflicts of interest and took all those other actions that were necessary for this commission to function, I took all the necessary steps to reach political arrangements for this commission to be established and to function. I have asked both the club presidents and the chairman of the Committee on Elections and Appointments, and also the chairman of the Committee on Elections and Designation, to invite all clubs to submit their proposals for appointment to that committee. In the Croatian public, many NGOs rightly ask the question of how state officials, including representatives in the Croatian Parliament, will receive salaries and must not receive salaries unless this law and this commission is realised in their integrity and in their fullness. The law is very precise and clear. Members of the commission shall be appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. The selection and appointment committee has proposed a specific proposal. Secondly, 4 members of the commission are elected from the ranks of representatives of the Croatian Parliament, with 2 members of the commission unable to be from the same political party. In the Rules of Procedure, the working bodies of the Parliament state that the composition of the Assembly's working bodies generally corresponds to the party assembly, the party composition of the Assembly. This is a lex specialis, this is the Law on preventing conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, and it does not speak of the party composition of this commission as a rule of party composition in the Croatian Parliament, but only about the fact that 4 members are representatives of the Croatian Parliament, with it not being able to be, cannot be two or two from the same political party, and that the president of the commission must not be a member of the party acting as the government. The commission sent these, this proposal. He's in the middle of something. In the preparation of this committee, the composition, I consulted, for example, on a committee member with and the president of the club, in fact, was not at that time vice president, but with Mr. Arlovic and Mr. Ivica Racan where we discussed that, therefore, a formal proposal for Professor Josip Kregar came from the SDP. We proposed it, and it was also proposed by the SDP Club. And the HDZ Club, I'm sorry. And he suggested it. Are the requirements of the law regarding the composition of this committee met? No member of the proposed commission is from the same, two are not from the same political party. That condition is fulfilled. Is the condition that three respected public employees? Yes, it is. Could this commission, if elected, function in the composition of not being elected within the meaning of the law, for the chairman of the commission to be of the opposition party? He can't. Therefore, all formal assumptions and needs are contained in the Proposal for a Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. There are clearly different perceptions and reasons and evaluations regarding the composition, but this does not reduce the fact that the Selection Committee, the appointments in accordance with the law proposed the composition of this Committee and in the procedure provided for in the law. The Rules of Procedure do not contain any closer provisions on how initiatives and proposals come into the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs as there are no proposals in the Rules of Procedure or provisions on how it comes to the Committee on Selection, Appointing and the Croatian Parliament. So I, who should give an explanation on the matter of the law-making process and the decisions of the Assembly, have fulfilled my duty in this way. There is, therefore, a proposal from the Committee on Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs, and it is in the Croatian Parliament to decide whether or not this proposal will be accepted or not. With, I repeat, with the emphasis that no parity with regard to the majority, minority parties who support the government or who enter the foreign or other support of the position and opposition are relevant for the application and selection of this commission because it speaks exclusively and only the law on the fact that it consists of four MPs, with two not being from the same party. That the president of the Committee is from the ranks of the opposition and that the three are prominent public scientists. Therefore, I find no reason for the commendable proposal of the respected representative, Lesar, to move and postpone the decision on the composition of this committee. Yeah, yeah, you'll get it now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Honored representative Luka Bebic on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Union's Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u750	Mr. President, I will not use heavy and large words and lunches and prophesy what will be and who will come into conflict of interest. It was done by Mr. Nenad Stazic who otherwise uses very difficult words and who creates, here yesterday and today, a bad atmosphere in this House. It's his manners and there's nothing else for us but to accept that fact. Mr Nenad Stazic and his party together with those who supported it passed the Law on conflict of interest and were able to appoint a commission during the term of office last term of the Assembly when they had the majority. In addition, the Law stipulates that four members of the Parliament should be from one party at a time. Therefore, two of the parties must not be in one party and, in agreement with that, the HDZ has proposed to Mrs Maria Byte as a member of our party. I could speculate now, and ask why this provision has been typed to be from four parties to that council, and now the situation has changed after the election. Whoever had the chance to choose those four from individual parties I can assume, HDZ did not have a majority and did not decide on the law. And as for putting a point on the agenda at 9 p.m., you haven't forgotten that you put systematically important and important points of the agenda at midnight. In front of the MP and no cameras. It just seems your memory has faded very quickly in a very short time. But you can't live forever from the affair, now here comes the affair about President Hebrang. You can't live too long from the affair, not from Kutla, not from Chachia, not from Hebrang and draw the public's attention to some other things that would not be seen by the large and large ones and we assure you that we will see them and present them to the Croatian public and whatever they may be. And in terms of speed and suggestions, and you want to make some decisions quickly, I remind you when the Law on conflict of interest was made, then in a minute to 12 the government delivered those famous 25% shares, up to 25% of the shares when there was no conflict of interest. Some specific individuals, mostly from the then ruling coalition, were identified there. So the public kind of noticed but we're not ready to have that kind of influence on the media and on the similar things that were happening we're making affairs and throwing to the Prime Minister what Mr. Stazic threw and insulted and humiliated the Prime Minister and the Government yesterday. It's like I said his manners and it seems our destiny to continue to experience him like that. I do not use, nor in the party where he works, nor does he use this Assembly with his extremes and systematic extremes in the Croatian Parliament. And in terms of principles and principles, I will remind you of the election of President-in-Office of the Parliament and of the two vice-presidents of 22. 12. when the HSP said and voted against the HDZ candidate's proposal, which notes in this House are 66 MPs, explaining that it does not know whether it is a majority or a minority. Well, we didn't propose three or two, whether we were a majority or a minority, HDZ had and has in this variant when it was a position, and the other one when the opposition was entitled to two vice-presidents of the parliament, but MPs with full right, I had no objection against the Vice-Presidents and presidents of the HDZ and did not vote against those two who belonged to the opposition, but were abstentions. That's right. And we don't intend to give it to you. We accept it and accept it as a political fact, and nothing else. And when I had my first meeting with the club presidents a few days ago, then my colleagues asked me a question about who the position was, who the opposition was. And then I asked the question, let's tell you who the opposition is. So it says 72. If it's 72, then you can't have 13 committees and most committees. And I say we have a coalition agreement with two HSLS and DC parties. With the other parties supporting us in the House, there is no firm coalition, but ad hoc from case to case of gentlemen from these parties will vote in the Parliament. But as they didn't want to, because then there were 13 committees, but we're a minority, so in the end, there was one objectivity and fact that was unquestionable, and finally, without any problem, a decision was made and the consent of all clubs to make it the way we voted yesterday. This is where the president said that these three prominent employees who were proposed were also consulting with representatives of the SDP, and that one of those who agreed to propose was also Professor Dr. Josip Kregar. I do not know which foreigners or whether they belong to the parties at all these three prominent public employees, Professor Željko Horvatic or Professor Dr Davor Verencinović or Professor Dr Josip Kregar, we have proposed them on the basis of some of our judgments and knowledge and their reputation as public employees. And with regard to 4 MPs from Parliament, all 4 belong to different parties, which is in line with the provision of an appropriate law which is clearly and precisely specified by them. I don't think we need to do this right now. We couldn't get into the Foreign Affairs Committee in four years, but only one member, and we had the right to 3 or 4. For four years, no one has looked after us for what we're saying and it's like they're telling the deaf. Also in the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the only member. At first we had the right to 3 or 4, later on at 2 or 3, when some came out of HDZ but we never got the other one, and no one was worried about it, nor was he nervous, nor did he move hard words and qualifications as Mr. Nenad Stazic, but he crossed over. I said it, none of the media wanted to write it, but when it comes to me being Arlovic agreed to do it differently then, all what Arlovic said, I don't blame Mr Arlovic at all, all of it in the media was accepted as a fact. What I'm saying is questionable, and as far as I'm concerned, I'm proving that we weren't adequately represented on board for four years, not four days, but four years, no one cared. Gentlemen, let's go back to our problems, our work Parliament, we're going to move on, we're not going to produce affairs, and if there's any chance that there's a question about some shifts, rematchisms, etc., I'm announcing here in front of the HDZ Club we're not going to do it. If we are forced to read “The People's Newspaper” from 2000 on the resolutions that the Government has passed, no one has asked if this is professional, is this or what, simple solutions have been made to such a fat “The People's Newspaper”. So if it's imposed as a major problem here, and I hope we won't because we won't be replacing as we were and during our government and those who aren't members of the HDZ, but if we're forced to do so by the MPs, and there's gonna be a lot of us reading the names and last names and solutions of all those people who have been solved for these four years, and no one has asked them whether they're professional or not professional, whether they're this or not. And don't think we won't create tension. We're not having affairs. We will not deal with any shifts, but if it is set before the Croatian Parliament it needs the Croatian public to know what was done because then the media did not ask, the main thing in the HDZ is that it has been replaced. So it's not good. This fact is sufficient to replace him and even on the Governing Committee of Ergels in Slavonia. That's it. I invite you all, despite what I just said as a possible announcement, but not as a threat if we are forced to do so, we will have to reach out for reading “The People's Newspapers” and resolution solutions. I think that there is nothing to add here, that the law is clear, that the proposals are clear, that they are qualified and that the Croatian Parliament should decide on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u751	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u752	It took me the time the Rules of Procedure gave me to correct all the incorrect allegations made here, so I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u753	My colleague Lesar doesn't have a replica of forgiveness. There isn't, says the Rules of Procedure. I don't say. Yeah. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative of Nevenka, this Milanka Opačić, forgive me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u754	Mr. President, on behalf of the SDP Club, please rest for half an hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u755	Now, okay. We'll continue in 30 minutes. Thank you very much. We're going to continue the session. I ask the honourable representative Milanko Opačić to address on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u757	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Since after the debate, it is quite certain that the parliamentary majority does not want two opposition MPs in the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, that you are thus sending a kind of message that you do not want the serious work of this committee and one quality supervision to prevent conflicts of interest, we personally and the SDP Club are withdrawing my candidacy because we do not want to be a club, nor do I personally participate in our own political farce. Now, after this seat, you have the opportunity to declare someone else an opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u758	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee, Mr Branimir Glavas, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u759	On behalf of the Committee, I can conclude, that instead of the 7 proposed we have at this point 6 proposed. I suggest that it proceed with the debate, after the debate was concluded, and that this 7 place be left vacant afterwards, as well as the practice of filling all the other committees, so we filled out the committees. There were cases incomplete, and later we filled in what wasn't filled. So, 6 which is sufficient for this committee to be established and normally continue to operate in accordance with the law, and then the Committee on Selection and Appointing will agree on who will be instead of Mrs Opačić to consider and report this home.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u760	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the president of the Club Mr. Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u761	I suggest that another attempt be made to resolve this in a dignified and logical and legal manner. We will try, no matter what is said about HDZ and against HDZ by Mr Stazic and some more persistently build a tolerance relationship in this House, discuss and try to reach an agreement, agreement or even consensus on some important issues. I therefore propose that we try to agree, and I also agree with the President of the Committee, Mr Glavas, that this proposal was submitted and that nothing was broken by the law, which was passed several months ago in that assembly of the Parliament, which could have chosen the commission and was obliged to elect a commission. So, I suggest we try to find a deal, if we don't find it, it seems to me we won't get paid, because we won't be able to do this, if we don't resolve this issue of the commission, that's how it stands. But we can also be without pay for a while in order to agree on exactly what we do with our hearts whenever possible, and we will even try when it is not possible. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u762	Thank you very much. Today, tonight, according to this proposal, the Croatian Parliament will not make its decision, we will not decide. Tomorrow we will continue at 10 o'clock, with points 11. Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Croatian Advocates, paragraph 12 of the Amendment and the Supplement of the Family Law, and thereafter paragraph 9, amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, paragraph 6, amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State, paragraph 7, amending and supplementing the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers. So, we pick up tomorrow at 10:00. And we still have that part of the selection, appointment and administrative committee. I ask the President of the Committee, Mr Branimir Glavas, to submit the Committee's proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u764	Sir, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We've only one debt left since yesterday. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of presidents and members of the “Vladimir Nazor” Award Committee. The president of the “Vladimir Nazor” award committee is hereby relieved of his duties as an academic, Nedjeljko Fabrio. A member of the “Vladimir Nazor” award committee, Helena Buljan, Prof. dr. Niksha Gligo, Goran Končar, Prof. Dr. Zoran Kravar, academician Velimir Naichart, Prof. Dr. Ante Peterlic, Mladen Šolman and Prof. Fedja Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u765	I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for this decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you. I find that 119 votes in favour and 5 against the motion is a proposed decision. Here you go... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u766	Proposal for a decision on the appointment of presidents and members of the “Vladimir Nazor” Award Committee. The president of the “Vladimir Nazor” Award is named: academician Milan Moš, president of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. For members of the “Vladimir Nazor” Award Committee, the following are named: Prof. Tonko Ninić, Music Academy, Zagreb. Prof. Dr. Tonko Maroevic, art historian. Mrs. Jagoda Martincevic, the musician. Mr. Goran Grgic, actor. Prof. Fedja Vukić, art historian, professor at the study of design. Prof. Dr. Krešimir Nemec, historian of literature, Prof. Dr. Ante Petrlić, philosopher, professor at the Academy of Drama Arts. Mr. Jerko Roshin, a graduate architect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u767	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u768	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I want to say the following: do not slow down, say this, or name or anything, but I am warning of a procedure that may not have been binding since we did not make it that way, but it is morally binding, in some way, given the practice we have had so far, which is that such proposals come to say backed up by the opinions of those who do what we call themselves, and I hope that so will remain an autonomous decision in culture. This means cultural councils, and at least in the House, they go through such a procedure that before the Board of Appoints decides on such a variant that they are also the subject of discussion on the Committee on Culture, Science and Education which they were not this time. So this is coming at us surprisingly fast. There's still time because it's not so urgent for this session to decide. So do not slow down any of the individuals I think would be directed next time, and even more instructed this time to honor one much,... the reserve relative to this, i.e. I mean abstention. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u769	Thank you very much... Here you go. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u770	The Committee on Education, Science and Culture at its meeting today also discussed and also did not dispute the competence of all the proposed persons in any case that the proposals of this kind should also come to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u771	Thank you very much. We agree, then, that I am voting accordingly on the proposal for this decision. Who's in favour of the motion of this decision?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u772	Just to point out that this material says Yosko Roshin, but it's actually Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u773	Yeah. Who's in favour of the motion of this decision? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you. I note that the said decision was taken by 84 votes to 41 with abstentions. And finally, here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u774	Session of the Selection Committee, appointment... It was held today at 3:00. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] During the morning, co-ordination meetings were held with representatives of all parliamentary parties' clubs. In the morning, the President of the Parliament called... the president of all clubs in an attempt to reach some consensus on the candidate committee members' candidacy to decide on a conflict of interest from the ranks of parliamentary deputies, from the ranks of prominent public employees. [[no switch]] Since the co-ordination of representatives of clubs, or parties, of all parliamentary parties in the Assembly did not take place at 15 o'clock, the meeting took place and after discussions on the proposed candidates of individual parties, both groups of opposition parties and other proposals of individual opposition parties, as well as a group of proposals coming from the ruling majority. Once again, I would like to emphasise the ruling majority, whether I leave relative or absolute majority to every club and every foreigner as well as any representative to judge and use the term, most, relative or absolute. After the committee has considered and concluded the debate, the vote has joined, I will inform you that, what proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee to decide on a conflict of interest at the meeting has been made at 3 p.m. For the members of the committee for the decision on conflict of interest are named: from the ranks of representatives of the Croatian Parliament, MP Marija Bajt, representative Djurdja Adlesic, representative of Antun Kapraljevic. From the ranks of prominent public employees, Dr Željko Horvatic is a regular professor at the Faculty of Law at the University of Zagreb. Docent Dr Davor Derencinović at the Department of Criminal Law at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb. Mr. Petar Marija Radelj, theologian editor and translator and polyglot. Explanation of such a decision, i.e. a proposal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties is prescribed to set up a Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law stipulates that the commission consists of 7 members, who choose between themselves the president. Members of the commission shall be appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for a member of the committee shall take care of his work and his reputation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law stipulates that four members of the commission are from the ranks of representatives of the Croatian Parliament, while the other members are respected public employees. So two members of the commission can't be from the same political party. The President of the Commission shall not be a member of the party acting as the authority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law is prescribed for members of the commission to be appointed at a time of 7 years, extremely members of the commission from the ranks of representatives of the Croatian Parliament are elected during the term of office in the Croatian Parliament. A member of the commission may be re-appointed no later than once. This Regulation shall enter into The law lays the foundation of the commission's action and competence. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament was held today in the follow-up of the 2nd session of the Committee, so on 30 January 2004, again discussed the proposals of the representatives' clubs for the appointment of members of the committee to decide on a conflict of interest. Following the debate, it has been proposed that the members of the committee from the ranks of MPs be appointed. Marija Bajt HDZ, Djurdja Adlesic HSLS and Antun Kapraljevic HNS. The seat of the fourth member of the committee from the ranks of MPs remains unfulfilled for the time being. For the members of the commission are proposed by the following respected employees, Professor Dr Zeljko Horvatic is a regular professor at the Faculty of Law at the University of Zagreb. Docent Dr Davor Derencinović at the Department of Criminal Law at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb and Petar Marija Radelj theologian, editor, translator and polyglot. The selection, appointment and administrative tasks of the Croatian Parliament discussed those proposals in the follow-up of the 2nd session held on 30 January 2004 and after discussion pursuant to Article 91(2) of Article 18(2) and Article 244. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and Article 20(1) The law on preventing conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties with 8 votes in favour, and 3 votes against establishing this motion for a decision with an explanation to be submitted to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u775	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u776	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. and during yesterday's session and today, several times, we have stressed the importance of choosing the commission by voting in a way that shows a common will to achieve consensus in that part. First of all, to send a message to the citizens that we want to be very serious about this commission to monitor every official. and try to finally practice that is present in other parliamentary countries, which is to bring our way of life, our way of working together with our private lives. Unfortunately, already a lot of tension around yesterday's session has shown that we have a different approach and what's worst is that we don't trust each other. and that in fact this message we send to the citizens of Croatia that we do not trust each other will fall on the burden of a parliamentary representative at all, because if we do not believe in each other, in the realization of the work of this commission in the quality of the work of this committee, which will only be with the citizens. Then we really ask ourselves how many times we carry the burden of responsibility ourselves because of a series of... which appear whether in personal communications whether in media statements or even in media. [[no switch]] How much we're caused by it ourselves. I believe that none of us will be happy after tonight's vote because simply.../ The speaker understands....a really ugly message. I must say that we are not feeling in the SDP or proud of last year's events when, as part of the coalition partners, we were undecided, we were also not responsible enough and remember these procedures, and I believe that in some way we have endured criticism, objections, objective I would say attacks, and that is what we are not running away as the SDP Club from wearing the responsibility of a long, long procedure, poor quality, established or passed law and all that has happened. Does it have to be with the choice of bodies that this bad law will enforce? We don't think we should. But let's turn to the other part and that's the relationship between the parlementary majority and the parliamentary minority. Yesterday we should have told the session's interruptions, the conflicts during the session, the session's termination at all to... accepted in line, two from the minority, two from the majority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means violently committed not on the basis of trust and the quality of the debate, violently. And now we come to the other one that two from the parliamentary majority but not on the proposal, I apologize to two from the parliamentary minority but still not on the proposal of that parliamentary minority. I must say that the SDP Club is also not happy, that we are not even on parliamentary... He's been able to make a deal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have a majority, but there's one party who disagrees on the reason he believes that perhaps in that part of the parliamentary determination... it was necessary to count and remember how we formed the committee. So we've shown in the minority not the style, but most of it makes its failure again. He's helping us fight. Why? Because what the majority in that parliamentary majority has decided is not accepted. It's unacceptable. That's why you simply influence us to fully withdraw from this procedure. That's why we withdrew one of the proposals and the other didn't accept it but that's why that outsider you proposed pulled it because it estimates it's hard to work in a body where it wasn't reached by consensus and in fact it's going to be in some way protecting our dignity, protecting our city, maybe returning, restoring the authority of the representatives, and I'd say better communication with the citizens. We lost all of it with this kind of adoption procedure. Is that what we need? The SDP club estimates it isn't. And we want to make it very clear that we will be with five other minority clubs with these two proposals and we will not really run on behalf of the SDP or in the future. So we suggest you choose the 7th. a member. Why do you need to choose? Well, you have to choose because you're going to have problems again. Which is an opposition, the president must be of opposition. Then it's obvious if we're talking about the opposition that maybe the opposition is a paramentary minority, you only have one candidate, there's no choice. Because you don't have another, just one candidate. My club, or SDP Club, suggests you choose the 7th, that at least those who choose the president from the opposition have the option to choose and not to, given that only one candidate choice is impossible. So much for the SDP Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u777	I thank Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. On behalf of the HSP Club, the respected protégé Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u778	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I was hoping after last night's session and the first failed attempt... and the choice of trust to decide on a conflict of interest that after a night of sleep things will still take place and that this important decision will finally be made by a broad consensus, which is finally the urgency of the Law of Conflict of Interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, we were as a party and we were the launch of this law on the formation of such a single body that would fight the capture of Croatia in the conflict of interest in corruption, bribery and everything that is heavily burdened by the Croatian economy, Croatian society as a whole. However, it seemed to me last night, although I missed last night's debate not saying anything because he was hoping for today's agreement, that I had some hunch that the reasons why the biggest party in the Croatian Parliament rejected yesterday's opposition proposal were not the very reasons of some principled nature but that I had some feeling that it was both prosaic or ground-based reasons, which unfortunately also confirmed at a meeting of all clubs that were discussed and finally impossible to agree on the principles of broad consensus. Because just on such principles, the work of this committee makes sense. Although it is a law that is relatively related to amendments that are not the real law that was in the original form. But as bad as it is, it's better than nothing, but since the version of selecting members of history isn't based on consensus, we can't hope it's going to be anything special. Why did I say I was expected to be something more prosaic or ground-floor? It could have been silenced yesterday, felt from the words of the president of the HD Club for Mr. Luka Bebić and which he also confirmed today that I was reported from our representative from that meeting. That the president of the HDZ Club has in some way honored the Croatian party of rights on how we voted at the constitutional session to elect the president of the Croatian Parliament. And vice presidents. So we have this relationship in which HDZ was an unacceptable candidate for the Croatian party of rights, which otherwise the main co-author of this law, which for two and a half years has made a remarkable contribution to this great project of passing such a law for the first time in the history of the modern Croatian state in the Croatian Parliament. To do practical work, do not mind, on the edge of the word, on revenge and on rematch because of the way the Croatian party voted in the constitutional session. It's nothing new to us, we're used to it, we've understood the message that we've been told by such a single gesture in such a single statement. Yeah, about the way he chooses. I don't want to get into the genealogy of no way of voting, but if you mentioned to your colleague Baby how we voted, at the constitutive session, I want to remind you because I must have remembered well when es is working on the Croatian party of law because I am the president of that party. That five years ago there was a vote in this same House on the judges of the Constitutional Court. Eight judges from the Constitutional Court voted, we had a candidate who was by all criteria of professionality and competence far the best candidate. Because the parties then also proposed through the County Department who even supported our candidate was, then the Croatian House of Representatives eliminated the majority of our candidate's Croatian democratic community from the possibility of entering the Constitutional Court. Then I said that the message was perfectly clear to us and that, in accordance with such a decision and such behaviour, we would behave for as long as the term of the Constitutional Court judge lasted. Of course, we haven't memorized the smell and the things we've been through. And we gave ourselves the right to vote according to our conscience according to our political assessments. Which was also the result of something I don't want to talk about either. We can open a genealogy of the relationship between the Croatian Democratic Community and the Croatian Party of Rights, which was. I don't think it's a place or a topic. However, our vote at a session of the Croatian Parliament cannot be a reason to rather unargumentally prevent the presence of the Croatian party's candidate in this commission, a decision on conflict of interest. Because our candidate is proposed by all parliamentary parties of the opposition except one side, and even some clubs of the ruling majority as we call them positions or so. However, we have accepted it as such, and we will also know how to set ourselves up. I just need to end up a little metaphorically speaking. The mouse hole you're going to put us in, she's gone into the wolf cave. I'll never make it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u779	On behalf of the club IDS the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u780	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the council. Someone here will get the impression that everything seems to avoid applying the law to prevent conflicts of interest in one reduced form, as my predecessor Mr Djapic mentioned. Another thing I'd like to note is that at this point, there's no television transmission that gives a man one freedom, on the one hand, to be brief, because we need to go home. Or I don't know somewhere else. But also to notice that perhaps someone from a higher place intervened on the basis of quotes, an independent medium, which could be one ominous warning. The other thing I'm saying is, this law is very easy after what's going on, it can come down to that folk, the hills were shaking in the end and nothing was born. It is my impression that the ruling majority want to mate with loyal membership primarily unsolicited situations. Secondly, it is very interesting in this law on the prevention of conflicts of interest to respected public employees for 7 years. So they outlive the term of office of one of our representatives of the Croatian Parliament. In any case, I believe that if the opposition is elected by six members, they belong to two places, clearly if the majority of yres can vote otherwise. However, the majority in this case cannot, above all, decide who will be proposed by the opposition in this commission. I therefore call on all those who call on the majority party to dispute the right that no doubt belongs to the opposition. If the opposition cannot already exercise its right in this form or in this commission, how will we even exercise other equally important rights. I personally believe that it is not common to disrespect parliamentary principles in this way. The responsibility for the parliamentary demeaning of the minority will not only be on the majority party, but on all those who will vote for it, i.e. who will hold the majority in this House at this time. On the other hand, it will probably be a definitive definition of the majority and the minority. Now at least it means exactly who the majority is, who the minority is. So in every evil as you might say, the people have something good. We'll find out at least after all this time who most of them are. But it's something else. What this practice disablings is the work of the Ethics Commission that we should choose in this case. For me, that is simply the essence and no one is allowed to agree to it, and even at this time they support the ruling party. We're holding such a mandate at the IDS club, he shouldn't have agreed to the HNS either. The HNS fought for its member, but the opposition did not fight for its seats in this ethically called it a commission, but as I said only one opposition party. So, in one word, you can get the impression or the IDS club gets the impression that everything seems to avoid applying the Convention on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u781	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, respected representative Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u782	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The law was passed in the 10th month, and we heard several remarks by Mr. Rožić and criticism, which is why this ethnic commission was not passed within the legal deadline. We were no bother to pass the law, nor to vote seven members of the Ethics Committee. We had to propose this commission for a number of reasons, among other things, because all deadlines have passed, and this is also related to some of the rights of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Is the law, I do not know, I answer to Mr Cain, no division of the opposition and position regarding the election of four MPs except that the President of the Commission must be of opposition. The law knows a provision in which, therefore, most of the formerly called the Parliament such a law and such a provision. The law knows a provision in which it is impossible for two representatives of those 4 to be from the same party. With regard to some of the illusions here that this is about revenge, that none of the proposed candidates in yesterday's submissions are disputing. So neither Mary Byte nor Mrs Adlesic nor Mrs Opačić nor Mr Gajic who was offered neatly by his party, nor the professors and professors who are here. I don't dispute Mr. Tadic personally. On the contrary, I confirm and express my opinion similar to that of Mr Djapic that it is a prominent member of this House who has launched a number of positive things and suggestions in this House. Good customs in this House when it comes to proposals and elections by individual parties have been violated in the previous assembly of parliaments and in this assembly at the 1st session. So let's not go far in the past. Most have refused until then the unimaginable refusal of HDZ's proposal to vote on individual committees. For those who are easily forgotten and who want to forget now to create the impression that we started something that was not common and in the tradition of this Assembly, I will also say again that the Croatian Democratic Community has lost four years of key people in two key committees and each of our proposals has been welcomed with ignoring and sub-session by the majority. This is about the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security where we initially had the right to 3 or 4 MPs. Later on at least 2 or 3. The entire session was held with 1 HDZ representative in that committee with the will of the parliamentary majority who did not want to accept it. Also, the only member of the Foreign Political Committee and its vice-president from the HDZ ranks was Dr. Ivo Sanader and that HDZ were unable to reach the 2 or 3 members who belonged to him on the basis of a provision by the Rules of Procedure, which says that they are generally elected on boards as a rule in proportion to representation in the Croatian Parliament. These are facts not since 15 years ago, from a few months ago. In terms of this... The Parliament. [[no switch]] As much as he has a high opinion on Mr Tadic's contribution, the work of this House, I guess I have the right to have a high opinion and on the contribution of this Parliament, Mr Vladimir Seks, to five mandates, the fifth who is now acting and who has rightly proposed the HDZ under the Rules of Procedure and has happened for the second time that there has been no consensus on the election, I don't know why. Because 13 or 14 MPs raised their hands against President-in-Office's election. It's their right, but good customs have come into question again. Imagine now that committees, presidents and vice presidents and most reject all these proposals from the opposition by majority vote. What's the score? That is what I say by comparing Mr Tadic's contribution to this Parliament and the political life in Croatia at all, which I highly appreciate, but I also appreciate Mr Vladimir Seks's contribution, which some MPs have raised here because they voted against. It wasn't up to him to decide how capable and respected he was, but rather, it was a political decision that I recognize, appreciate and take note of on behalf of my party. It was also repeated for the proposal by two vice-presidents from the ruling party, as they would say, who had the right to propose three, but proposed two, and then I got an explanation that it was against what we didn't propose three. It's like when we choose committees if we don't choose all 13 we won't choose as we did 11 yesterday on individual committees, so we completed them yesterday. So we could have added the third vice president to the Croatian Assembly to position and we did so yesterday. So it is that the Croatian Democratic Community does not question any of the proposed candidates or the gentleman... Antuna, like everyone else. [[You don't understand.]] We proposed Mr. Josip Kregar professor among other events, together with Zeljko Horvatic, Professor Horvatic and Davor Derencinevic, because we talked to Mr. SDP President Mr. Racan and Mr. Arlovic that we would suggest it. However, Mr. Kregar sent a letter to us, or to the president of the Parliament, saying there was no consensus for his proposal that he would give up. And then the question arises to suggest a third. As all three were proposed by the HDZ proposal, and thanked Mr. Kregar, not entering his party membership as well as these other two, I have no idea what parties they are, whether they are in any party at all. I know that Mr. Kregar has performed some duties in the city of Zagreb after some changes at the head of Zagreb. We are therefore the majority in the selection and appointment committee proposed one of the gentlemen proposed by SDP, HSS, HNS, PGS, HSP and IDS, and this is Mr. Petar Marijan Radelj, theologian, editor, translator and polyglot. So, we have respected the opposition proposal, although I am not reading from this law that it should be an opposition, it is important that four parties are from the MPs, and as Mr. Kregar withdrew his candidacy, we have proposed this third as proposed by the parties in the opposition that I have listed. Both in one case and in the other, and with regard to the representatives of these four, and with regard to these prominent public employees, the proposals of the opposition have been respected. Does this mean that when 100% of the opposition's proposals are ignored so that we can block, we can't make any decisions? I think the position here had an understanding, that it had reconsidered its proposals, that it had withdrawn itself from Mr. Gajica, for me for no reason whatsoever because it was proposed legally on the basis of his party's request, but Mr. Gajica offered last night that he would crack if it creates difficulties. That allowed us to propose to each other and we suggested it. Let's not talk to each other about second thoughts like we haven't been here as long as any other and we have a long memory. What HDZ did was it came out in two elements... and thus showed his desire to get out of one situation in an acceptable way in my opinion both for position and for opposition. [[You don't understand.]] And that's why... /There's no overlap. Who would have asked us if you'd named it the 11th month of this 7th? They wouldn't even look at us. This is what I claim from experience, but it would have been brought and any story about what we would have told me would not have seen the letters in the papers and any media. That's the truth. And now we have a proposal, we've classified 2 from the opposition, although that's not the law stated correctly. We have listed one of the publicly respected employees and I think this proposal is solid, balanced and I ask the Croatian Parliament to accept this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u783	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative... I would ask you to show me because from here you can't see if it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure or if it's a correction of an incorrect assumption. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Were those the injuries of the Rules of Procedure? And the Rules of Procedure's injuries were. Who's first? Mr. Korenik's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u784	Mr. President and Mr. Bebić, and you have injured Article 210 paragraph 1 of our Rules of Procedure because a good part of Mr. Bebić's speech was not talking about the ethical commission and the selection of the members of the Ethics Committee but was talking about the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament at the first constitutive session. In this way you also showed not only disrespect for the Rules of Procedure but also inconsistencies because for these very reasons you took away the word when speaking on behalf of the club fellow Stazić. I think you should have given a warning and interrupted him in his speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u785	I don't think so. He was saying... The commissions, and what was tangential and something else that was about it, it's obvious, isn't it? [[You don't understand.]] Comrade Stazic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u786	The thought, the thought of my remarks to you on the violation of the Rules of Procedure is exactly the same as what Mr. Korenik said, but I see, it's absolutely in vain to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u787	It's not for nothing. The answer is the same as your colleagues. I should hope so. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Miroslav Rožić, please. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u788	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I raised this one too early to correct the incorrect allegations in the follow-up speech, Mr. Bebić actually explained that this was not about revenge or training strictness, so I'm giving up correction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u789	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS's esteemed representative, Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u790	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I think it's a good idea that after last night, a lot of ailing and difficult atmosphere and the situation in which we've been in has come to the point that we're discussing this again today, and there's likely to be more preparedness for agreement and decision-making. Since 21st or 20th December, I have been involved in the talks and meetings of club presidents. I said that last night, there were three formulas that divided and counted the mandates. Until yesterday, there were three and it was mathematical and it was always done in a way that the basics and results were in favour of those who proposed. However, today I have heard actually a new argument and a new formula by which, in the coordination of opposition parties, the Croatian People's Party cannot propose its candidate, so of all the numbering indicators, the rule that the opposition must propose is laid down, I quote: "sound names and experienced people". So by category and by code of sound names I did not ask how many decibels must be sound names and experiences we were disabled to as party opposition with 11 MPs. I remind you that according to the number of representatives in this Croatian Parliament, we are the third party and within the opposition quota, the second party. We insisted and stayed on it and gave our criteria. The second-largest opposition party and the third parliamentary must have the right to give its candidacy just so that our proposals will not finally be voted on. One single criterion, principled and consistent and against, and that is why we insist on all the complex arrangements, for example that we only learned last night and that the external candidates of the composition of this committee were already agreed between some colleagues and colleagues, without our participation in this. In this way and in relation to the number of MPs, we will continue to act and we will not allow every week or every day someone invents new formulas, divisions or distributions of any function and duties in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u791	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Miroslav Rožić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u792	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The fact that I am not the creator of any of the numerous formulas mentioned by a colleague from the HNS can be said that all the numbered amounts and all the formulas he mentioned were related to the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, and that the commission that we are talking about in this topic is not a working body, but that it is indeed an ethical commission in which at least these many relationships should be important at least when it comes to opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u793	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u794	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I think it would be better to say an elephant was born. [[no switch]] And that elephant in the glass shop, and that elephant of conflict of interest in this parliament, among the parties. And I'm not saying that because the SDS Club would have been in any way hurt by the fact that part of the parties reacted negatively to the proposal that his representative, Mr. Gajica, would have been included in the proposal for an ethical commission of conflict of interest. Mr. Gajica here is the first term, most unknown, although a lawyer and a lawyer, and if I may say an honest man unlike the opinions we could hear last night contrary to that by those who do not know him and who certainly does not belong to a party who would like to participate in this kind of story of conflict of interest. And that's why we decided to protect him, to open up a space for a solution that we thought might be better to suggest that Mr. Gajic withdraws from the candidate list, so today we presented it at a meeting of party clubs. And in that sense, what we can see today, what we heard today, I can't help thinking that last night's proposal was better than today. But it won't affect our decision, it won't affect the already expressed position at the club meetings and the attitude we made publicly. We have publicly, regardless of the differences that may be more publicly manifested between the party I belong to and the party to which Mr. Tonci Tadic belongs, we felt that Mr. Tadic has references not only to be a serious candidate but to be a proposed candidate for this commission. Why didn't it happen? We heard part of it from Mr. Bebić. Why didn't it happen we didn't hear from those who could also tell why it didn't happen and I don't think that's good. I think this conflict of interest in this Parliament if there is already no need to be so drastically visible, because if it is drastically visible then Caine is right to think of the law "shake the hills and be born a mouse". Therefore, not only the possible conflict of interest outside this Parliament but right here in this Parliament. And therefore, for these reasons, I assume that the SDS Club and at least one part of the national minority representatives will not be able to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u795	On behalf of the HSLS Club, DC respected representative Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u796	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, in Croatia, we felt that a radical Law on conflict of interest was passed, and no matter how serious we approach and what interests we have in this Committee, I am afraid that, first of all, it will be very difficult for the Committee to work because, practically, by the existing provisions that most of those who would be dealing with certain matters that could lead to doubt that the conflict of interest will actually be able to deal with these affairs, we all know what amendments and the last moments of interventions this Law has changed. However, when it comes to the Ethics Commission, it is something that we have proposed that our member, vice-president of the Party, Vice-President of the Parliament of Mrs Adlesic, and before we passed the Law on conflict of interest, we have insisted for 4 years that an ethical commission be chosen and today we believe that the ethical commission should be chosen even though the existing position and part of the opposition has already agreed that it is necessary to amend the Law on the conflict of interest because it is truly masquerading, defective, and that it will practically not have a practical scope. As for this debate and our current doubts, let us not allow us to make that logical and life-long mistake of killing a cow because of a steak. Let us not allow ourselves today to choose an ethical commission because we cannot agree on a member of this Committee. I think that the very function of meaning, even the proposed composition without this one member, is sufficient assurance that it is a very necessary body and that it is very competent persons to be members of that Body. It is natural, I would say, unlike fellow Pupovac, it is natural that we have a conflict of political interests, it is natural that opposition parties can hardly agree, it is natural that the positioning parties can hardly agree, so there have been some obstacles, because political interests are different and it is good to remain different. However, what should not be questionable is moral interests. This is about the Ethics Commission and I think that... /No overlap./...we should come into conflict of moral interests regardless of whether we are from a party to a position or opposition to moral interests in preventing possible conflicts of interest should be identical to us. They should be our first priority in relation to any political differences. Therefore, I ask you to adopt this, and I think that the proposal that exists for both Mrs Byte and Mrs Adlesic, who has consistently advocated herself for 4 years and in a former meeting when there is no will, I must say from many parties, and possibly from a leading Parliament to do so at the beginning of the mandate, but at the beginning of the term, we have come to the fact that we can choose an ethical commission. So let us do that, let time show its own and see if these people are really not only competent that we believe they are, but are they people who are so morally clean that there really won't be any conflict between them in judgment and we start working. I might like it when it comes to people on the outside who are suggested to be a few philosophers or ethics here. We have two lawyers. I must warn you that preventing conflict of interest is not an uncle-senso legal issue. This will primarily be a moral question, or question of ethical reflection, and I wish that perhaps instead of two lawyers we had one lawyer and a moralist, so a man who could ethically reflect the possible or suspicious conflicts of interest. But when that's the case, that's the deal. We won't be against it. I therefore ask you, regardless of political differences and conflicts of political interest, that we do not really question the very purpose of the commission and that all, with the same moral feeling, should we also start to debate with a perhaps stronger moral sense of conflict of interest in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u797	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u798	Well, I'm sure what I'm about to fix isn't God-knows-what, but I still need to make it right. As I recall, and it seems to me that I still remember not speaking a single word and mentioning that it was a conflict of political interests but a conflict of interest here. That seems pretty important to me... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u799	Thank you. Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u800	So I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague, Chehok, who said that in the last meeting, there was little excessive will to pass the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Since my colleague Chehok, I must say, he wasn't much of a Parliament meeting then perhaps he doesn't know that his party was the one who brought down the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u801	Correction of the incorrect quote by counterpart Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u802	In his presentation, counterpart Chehok stressed that this necessary body should be chosen for the implementation of a national law, so I want to correct it. It's really one, one, one syntagma that's completely incomprehensible. Why would it be necessary for a body if it had no other task but to implement one of the law? It is not about any ethical committee, it is about one commission that has to work under one particular law and which is not the working body of this Assembly and which must deal with this problem, however, only with the position of ethics. Because they don't exist, there are no instruments for any other sanctioning but ethically. That's why we called it the Colloquial Ethics, but it's not really any ethical commission of this House, it's not even his working body, but it's one commission to be elected, which is simply called Parliament but under one law. It won't even work in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u803	Thank you very much. We're going to individual debates. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u804	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. She injured Mrs Opacic above all and then a respected colleague, Rosic. It's the Rules of Procedure, they didn't correct my allegations, so Article 209. Mrs. Opacic, we were not against the Law in the first reading because we would be against the Law, but because this first proposal was a disaster, we still consider it a disaster. It's better to never pass any law than a bad law and a bad law. And colleague Rosic Ivan Chehok never used the word necessary. Unlike the law, Ivan Chehok uses the Croatian language too much than I said that we must choose a commission that will be difficult to work with in the light of the law. But that doesn't mean the commission doesn't need it. It is also required under the Law on State officials, not under the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Surely the word necessary was never in my dictionary, be assured.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u805	And another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Gone. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u806	Dear Mr. Shakespeare, I read the record of yesterday's debate, and I was a little sad. I'm happy today because we're acting like some kind of conclave and I want to be in spite of, despite that, I think it's a good thing that television doesn't pass on. I don't believe in conspiracy theories, but I believe in the art of President Shakespeare who simply organized the session so that the time is up which is quite logical and thinks he's done a good deed. So I think there's still time to compromise. Namely... Then you can't see what Ivo Sanader noticed at Prodi's so-called. body language, or body language, so I'm glad I saw Mr. Luka Bebić speak, because I saw that man is truly angry, unhappy in fact. [[no switch]] And these persons, and all of them, all kinds of aggression actually stem from a sense of accretion based on facts. I'll say, this House I was looking at from another perspective and what was completely undeniable that the previous coalition government had implemented in the Parliament what John Stuart... called the terror of the majority. And this type of acronym was also conditioned by the terror of most HDZ. Since HDZ already has one unpleasant experience, I would like to plant in some way the roots of tolerance that will bind the future composition of the Parliament. I would take this opportunity to advocate consent to this. Because the great and final foothold of the credibility of this high house from the public's point of view is this particular commission. So on it, the people will judge what they want to do with this Parliament. And I would take this opportunity to commend my fellow Pupovci, Milorad Pupovac and his party who showed wisdom and I think that something good will be born. I would like to believe that information about Mr. Gajica is wrong and that exactly what Milorad Pupovac said about him general ideas about public people are wrong. Some people who have a "PR" act in public as big moralists, and great humanists have the reputations of cablemen, so what should they do in this sense? So, I think we can first of all be aware of one fact that I convinced the HSPs. They believed that HDZ's indisposition to them was related to the party's unpopularity outside. I was telling them gentlemen, I have some test opportunities, I've tested the French government, the French government has been inclined to enter HSPs into the government, so to speak. Small ministries, I was saying, is not the problem, the problem is that you in the negotiating platform have said that the party does not agree to the functions of state officials bringing people involved in corruption crimes of capture of the state, crimes of conflict of interest. And that's why it's the second test of this government. I think that Tonci Tadic should be given support today that will not be determined by a party band, but by moral reasons that sometimes have to prevail in people's heads. Namely, he invested that 2.5 years of his life, that job that he was going to do be safe, I know the nature of such people, he's fierce, he's not mean, but he showed it, and we showed it to so-called. The graphics lesson about how to civilize his Excellency to admit that not HSP's sympathy is not related to allegedly not sonaring, but to dentists and real estate in Istria. So if we can get in that area, then my proposal is next. It is unserious that the HNS has its representative here, because Mr. Radomir Cacic publicly admitted on three occasions that he is in conflict of interest. It's not that I need a parliamentary... So I suggest we go back to the original proposal, and the last thing I want to say. I'm uncomfortable, because I have all the sympathy for you, Professor Chehok, because you said that one law that passed this House and now law. I'm sorry, I don't think that's the way we can handle ourselves to the scales and results of this tall house, even though I'm not thrilled with the discussion or the technology, so I'd like to say my experience is that people who beat their fathers tend to beat their own kids. Therefore, I have unpleasant experience with HDZ, but I now have a very positive opinion on Vladimir Seks and I do, I have seen in a large number of HDZ people with whom I would like to have coffee and build good legislation. Therefore, let us make an effort and I would like to ask that we vote on my proposal to include Tonci Tadic in this and to go public with this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u807	Thank you. Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u808	A colleague, dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. My colleague Letica is a member of the HSP Club, but he is certainly an independent representative, and he has given us an appeal as such. But what I definitely mean is undeniable, I hope it is indisputable for all who are still here today in the assembly after these spoken words, on this subject. That there is one impression that indeed we have all gone in one very bad and inappropriate way into one choice of one commission that should be dealt with by ethical norms, in fact, to prevent corruption at the highest possible level, that was its purpose, that was the law's purpose, that was the intensity of this law, and I think it even has certain ethical instruments that could provide it. I'd like to say two, three words below what my colleague Letica was talking about. Maybe I don't know if anyone counted, and if you're aware of that, that out of the 12 representatives' clubs in this session, seven representatives' clubs supported Mr. Tonci Tadic's choice. And that such desire and public support is being ignored here from the pay phone, in fact absolutely. I think it's this bad and inappropriate way to choose one commission that should be... And using it, of course, only those ethical, moral methods that are available to them. [[no switch]] I must admit that indeed all of us in the club were quite shocked by the strategy and tactics that tried to impose the composition of this committee by the majority. I admit shocked indeed. Perhaps our shock can only be compared to that dose of shock that it must have, had HDZ representatives when they voted on Parliament's leadership and how the HSP voted. But regardless, no one can, no one can refute me, using any demagogy here, good, bad, cheap or sophisticated that the HDZ strategy was the first strategy in choosing this commission to try to undermine the opposition in this commission. That's it. to be of only one member from the opposition. It was the first strategy, tactics, tactics to implement the strategy was to actually declare one of the ruling opposition parties. And that's what we discussed yesterday. Since it is truly a moral and ethnic attitude of the SDSS Club that has actually prevented that tactics by withdrawing its member's candidacy. I thank myself on behalf of the Croatian Party Club as the president of the Club for this, as well as all clubs of opposition representatives, as well as those from the ruling majority who supported the really ethical proposal by Tonci Tadic in this commission. The second strategy today that we've been working on all day is a little different. After the collapse of this first day, the strategy was to give opposition to three members of 7 but not to any three members and not to any opposition, but to do so, tactics, therefore, for the implementation of this strategy was to choose a similar opposition, i.e. the opposition party and candidates, thereby rejecting the unsuitable candidates and the unmatched parlemant parties. Why exactly the HNS candidate is more similar than the candidates of all other opposition parties, I can really only guess but I hope that the public will guess. However, I believe that this kind of election will really raise a serious suspicion in the public of the existence of the parliamentary majority's political will to prevent one type of corruption at the highest level and this is a conflict of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u809	Thank you very much. Replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u810	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleague Rožić, I have not read anywhere, you have not met me that you have the qualifications and expertise of identifying the similarities of individuals and parties and I kindly ask that such evaluations of the mania especially because we sat together for a few days in an attempt to complete the working bodies of this Parliament. And then the question of similarity wasn't the subject, I'm surprised how you now use such words and dictionaries since it's about the fullness of the commission that I'm hoping will quickly determine and conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u811	Reply to the replica, dear colleague Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u812	Thank you very much. My esteemed colleague, Lesar, got me all wrong. I wasn't talking about my similarity criteria. I was talking about HDZ's similarity criteria. And they, how they determine them about me, but I have no idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u813	Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u814	Dear Mr. President, members of the Parliament, a man of course learns while he's alive, I'm still relatively young, so it's not too late. I don't know if I've come to know whether I have to thank my naiveness, whether I have to thank the fact that I'm actually here as a beginner in parliamentary and political work or perhaps because I'm not a member of any political party. But I must say that it is entirely foreign to me that the decision on such an important issue is really held that the important question of the choice of commission is based on who in 2, 3, 5 years or perhaps less voted and that they are returning and promoting debts from previous issues that have been raised in the House. It is true that many have pointed out that one of the important elements of this Assembly is that the commission is established and is working in one appropriate way. I remind you of that wisdom that the court must not only be righteous but it must look that way. In some ways, what we're setting up here is our moral court and that's what it has to look like. After what happened to this procedure, there's no one we can convince to call that court so right, impartial and fair, even if it was him. Why am I pointing that out? Because all these candidates who are mentioned, who are on the list, I really don't have a shred of doubt about their dignity, especially I would say that the outsiders who are being proposed, I think first of all about my colleagues from the Law School not those who are on the list of electors, but also about a fellow brave who was proposed by HSP really in terms of their expertise and morality are the best ones and I don't think they all deserve what they want, they didn't want to happen after this election. Such a choice will certainly call into question their democratic legitimacy in such a body very seriously. And that team before this committee's idea is not what the rest of the board's idea is. In fact, if we ask ourselves, who can abuse their position in politics? Well, then, of course, it's in the front row of whoever's in power, today each other, across the third. It's the essence of democracy. And that's why I think it would be part of the poolitic wisdom that, in addition to, of course, a fair schedule from the ranks of MPs, it's made sure that, in the end, maybe just as far as these outside members are concerned, the number of those proposed by the trial is prevailing. This would certainly have full legitimacy, and this way after these discussions, everyone will think that mastering this commission is a very important thing for these or those reasons. I have to say that I'm sorry that it seems that way in principle I would really support all the candidates who are proposing because I think they're all in principle really appropriate. But after what happened, all I can say is, the hills were shaking and the mouse was born. Because whoever's got to sit in that commission is gonna have a hard time trusting the public. That's why I'm not personally taking part in the motion vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u815	Thank you. Replica representative Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u816	The replica consists of Mr. Josipovic finding that he really doesn't care and really coming back for three, four, five years what someone said and how who voted it I agree with you know. But in this case, I was just quoting what happened 38 days ago, it wasn't three years ago. So I took that example. It's about incomparability for some of the presidents of the Parliament. Because they voted against him. And the custom in this House was that the parties that have the right to propose, that then the other without debate accept. As we've accepted all the committees as you've seen. It wasn't at all controversial that we all raised our hands that I disagreed with someone there to be on that and that committee, it's irrelevant. So, one of the traditionally good consents that we have demonstrated except in one case in the past term all the time. This is where it came into question. I have never questioned the reputation and reputation of Mr. Tadic or any of these. And don't push me into any other positions, and try to explain what you can't explain. Because the facts I spoke of are so hard and no one here has challenged them. Except for some attempts at philosophizing from the kind of guy who's got a guard. That's my business.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u817	Thank you. Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u818	I'll say I'm sorry this commission didn't get elected by consensus. First of all, because of what his colleague Josipovic said, which is that this exploited commission, the Croatian public, will not believe. We missed the last chance or one good chance to finally appoint a body that would worry about the fact that, primarily in the Croatian public, this one built image of the Croatian politician as a corrupt, unfair, thief, so one painting that was partly imposed and created by individuals who had been acting unfairly in their functions over the past years. but one part because there was no such body in all these years and there were no rules of the game that would make one catalogue of the conduct of Croatian politicians very clear to the Croatian public. Where it would be visible what is moral and what is immoral behavior. And that is why it is possible for some individuals to make a complete policy so dirty that it becomes a truly dishonest profession. All these years, I've been claiming that politics is an honest job for the benefit of the citizens. Unfortunately, it is very or most citizens that you find it very difficult to convince. Unfortunately, we have lost our opportunity by assembling such a commission to do so in this parliamentary term all in order to bring back the reputation of this parliament and even politics in Croatia. It should be said that, unfortunately, all these years, it has been very difficult to pass the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, it has been from the time of the HDZ government. So somewhere just as dirty as it went, it had to be admitted, in our coalition government. Unfortunately, for the good part, and for the very relations in the coalition of coalition pressures that have been the result of the compromise of staying so somewhere in the coalition together. And that is why it should be said that in the last adoption of the Law on Conflict of Interest, we were very unhappy about all the last interventions that happened that really went down somewhere and I think they were something that wasn't good. However, we feel that lessons need to be learned from what is bad. I am sorry that my colleague Bebic does not act in the same way, so whether there was a vote 5 years ago, or 38 days ago, is obviously here from the stand-up of the president of the HD Club so that you can talk about what Djapic said about a kind of revenge. I think here should be a little political wisdom, so then all that was bad don't do it about the same. But to do it completely differently because if HDZ had done something different about the appointment of this ethical commission, he would have won it in the Croatian public anyway. Unfortunately, everyone is lost, especially you, but we've all lost because no one is going to believe this commission that these people who are going to agree to be elected to the commission will do their job properly and honestly. I have to say, there's been talk here today that there have been several formulas for appointing members of the Committee. I'm glad some people here found a lifesaver formula today. Unfortunately, not a formula to prevent conflicts of interest, but a formula to protect private interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u819	Replica is a respected representative of Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u820	We haven't questioned anyone's dignity, and I can imagine, I don't know if there's Mr. Kavljevic and the others you're declaring to be the message of this commission's election that the public won't trust them. On what basis do you conclude? So do they have people here who don't deserve to be in this commission? If we've come to that point, then the question is, why and who is challenging any of the proposed ones? And that's the real question, and not if someone isn't proposed, but please turn around and explain why one of these 7... What do we want to say? [[the speaker is disabled, not understood]] What's this all about? Are we questioning the proposal of the ones we brought here? How could they even come as candidates? Let's not play and disqualify ourselves in front of people?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u821	Okay. Thank you. But you did not speak, so he gave you a replica. Now you answer the line. Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u822	Well, fellow Baby, I wasn't talking about people here, I wasn't talking about names. I said here that no one would believe this commission because of the way it was chosen. Namely, you didn't accept the people behind who cared what, 7 seemed to me to be clubs. You were the ones who sort of took on opposition parties and that's something that's unacceptable. I'm just saying that the way you chose it is because it's obvious that some people don't want you in that ethnic commission. That's all I said, therefore, because of the way the commission was chosen. Well, here is proof that Mr. Josip Kregar does not want to participate in all of this he also resigned that the way is bad and that this commission will not be trusted by anyone in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u823	In accordance with Article 207(2), it was time to apply for a 10-minute hearing as early as 19.33. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u824	Your Honor, Mr. President. Mr Kajin's call to HDZ to respect the elements of parliamentaryism as well as Letic's moving call for the HDZ to accept Tadic, I am afraid of deaf ears. We here first have a proposal that is not complete. There are no seven members here. There are six proposed members here. And why isn't seven? So because HDZ, with all its efforts, has made every effort to propose members for this, the Commissioner couldn't find a party who would like to be present with them, to share this farce with them, I must admit, except for the CNS. After Mr. Gaitsa retired honorably yesterday. After the honorable and principled attitude of the SDSS that it does not want to participate in the farce, the honorable Mr. Kregar also retired and he does not want to participate in that farsi with you. And the law says that two of them can't be from the same party or the seventh party, because no one will participate with you. So you will remain to appoint these six members along with the CNS. You'll do your best around 7th. I don't know how you're gonna make it. What's the point? Excuse me. Mr. Tadic, you won't, and you said it very openly and very harshly. Anyone can, but Mr. Tadic can't. Why? I agree with Mr. Flyer. It's not revenge. It's fear. It is a fear of principle, of Mr Tadic's openness, which would obviously bother HDZ's interests in the commission. Well, if you don't mind, it's best if we don't name him, so we solved the problem right at the beginning. You're missing a 7th member. Here's Mr. Tadic. What is the purpose of this commission? This really isn't the working body of the Parliament. The purpose of this commission is to control and to send to the public messages whether officials, we here in the Parliament and in the Government are entering a conflict of interest. Therefore, the purpose of this commission is primarily to control power. It's the government that's in the... to enter into a conflict of interest. [[no switch]] Someone who isn't in power, who isn't in office, and who can't get into conflict of interest. This commission must be controlled by power, and who will please trust you nicely with a commission in which of the seven members you propose six. Who's going to trust that committee with one word? Of course, the question is raised, and why is it now so important for HDZ to appoint six of the seven members of the committee. And what does he care so much about if he really means to exercise authority honestly? Well, it would tell the opposition, so don't, so here's... You, name all seven, control us. [[You don't understand.]] Here's the public, here's the call for the institutions to propose... /The speaker off, so turn it back on./...because these members need to control us. On the contrary, HDZ seeks to appoint six out of seven. The question is, why does the HNS care so much that he has a member in the council. I won't answer that question. The answer, then, to the question why they care lies in what the commission will decide. That's where the answer lies. They will decide on the behaviour of the government, the behaviour of MPs, the behaviour of ministers. I also said last night that already there is a minister who has banned, interrupted the procurement of radiological equipment for all hospitals in Croatia, and published an ad with his name for a private polyclinic where what is being done, radiological searches. Not one hospital in Croatia can get a röntgen, no CT or...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u825	We've heard that before, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u826	Not all of them. Not everyone heard. He can't get any röntgen, no CT, no magnetic resonance, no patients have anywhere to look. I can, I can examine myself, right there in that clinic that was advertised. This will be decided by the committee, and therefore it is clear why you want six out of seven members. But gentlemen of the HDZ, this is your ID, this commission, the way the members of this committee are elected is your ID. With that ID, you'll be out in public, which is why the public will evaluate you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u827	Now let's go a little bit, first we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u828	Mr. Stazić, in his traditional and permanent manner, violated Article 214(6) or subparagraph 6 in which he said that by his conduct he deviated from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly constantly and systematically because he said that this is what the Parliament and its bodies are doing, so the farce is what the Board of Selection and appointments did and proposed these six or seven. I would if I could correct the quote right now because I answered that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u829	To correct the incorrect quote of colleague Jarnjak number two.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u830	Your Honor, Mr. President, first one of the very serious allegations you've made, and it's incorrect that someone from HDZ said we won't have Tonci Tadic at any price. It's incorrect. It's a lie. That's not true. No one from HDZ has ever said that. Nothing personal to Tonchi Tadic. Nothing personal. And two. It is incorrect to give up a member of the commission, you do not die to agree. Set up and sit down the entire opposition, propose two members, we'll accept without a word, but suggest two. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u831	Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u832	Lastly, Mr. Stazic found that HDZ has proposed seven six candidates. It is not true because he proposed four, and this is Mrs Bajt, Mrs Adlesic, Mr Horvatic and Derencinovic, and the opposition was proposed by Mrs Opačić, Mr Kapraljevic and Mr... Well, it's not exactly 6:1 but 4:3. [[You don't understand.]] The other thing is, you didn't accept Mr. Gajic, Mr. Kapraljevic or Mr. Kregar, and we suggested him. It's true written and demonstrated here. I ask that someone contest it, your claim wasn't as true as ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u833	And now we're going to the replicas. First respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u834	Dear fellow Stazic when a proposal of the Committee on Elections and Appointment came before the Parliament last night, where there were no candidates from the ranks of the Croatian People's Party, then no one, nor did you, have any doubts... Not to say the honesty of the people proposed. [[You can't hear it.]] At the time, you had nothing to worry about, only that the opposition had no two seats and it was created... /There is no overlap./...now that there is a proposal for candidates from the Croatian People's Party, you are now claiming that it is the self-interest of the party and the man who is proposed to protect someone's dirty work. It's just amazing... 20 hours. [[You don't understand.]] [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u835	Replicate response, honourable representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u836	No, Mr. Lesar, I'm not saying, I'm not saying that, I'm not saying that it's your nature to cover up any dirty business or anyone from your party. I'm just asking if it's a unique position for all other opposition parties to propose two candidates, why do you as the only opposition party insist so much on your own?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u837	Replica, the esteemed representative Ferenchak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u838	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Stazic, we have the right to propose our candidate. It's just amazing how rudely you suggest that the HNS is pushing its people to protect some kind of, I don't know, manipulation in that commission, I guess. Do you think it's just a committee in which members of the SDP are honest and honest? Do you think there are no honest people in the HNS? We have the right to propose our candidate. Here, you suggest yours. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u839	Comrade Ferenčák, I would ask you not to use the word rude compared to fellow Stazic... Please, let's not. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Replication response, fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u840	Mr. Ferenchak, I really think there are an unusually many honest people in the HNS. I honestly believe it. Yours, it is your right to propose a candidate and your right is for that candidate to be accepted by the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u841	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u842	Mr. Stazic, I would only ask you why you didn't work so hard in the mandate of the coalition authority to appoint this commission and to give HDZ or opposition to HSP at that time, two places and it controls the work and conflict of interest in yours, between your coalition partners. It is obvious today that when you try to put together this commission of different parties, with one lack of one man in it, you do not allow it, but you constantly and again insinuate with some kind of possible or similar intentions. I believe that only in the head of a man who is surely prone to such intentions can such an idea be born. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u843	Thank you very much. Correction, reply to the replica of fellow Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u844	First, the MP cannot ask questions, please read that in the Rules of Procedure. Second, second and second. Yes, we could have, put together a committee and that commission, given that his term was seven years old, would then be set up to control your authority. I really think that at the time before the elections it was far more fair to stop the process, wait for a new assembly of parliaments, a new relationship of forces, and allow a somewhat naive belief that the parliamentary majority will choose a commission that will allow them to control the same rule. Because, look, it's not just that commission, like I said. It won't be just your ID, it'll be your guarantee card.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u845	And the last speaker in a row, Honored Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u846	Thank you, Mr. President. I responded to the word at one stage when this debate had another more principled character, and in some ways the concepts of “ethical commission” were confused, given in a way, attached to this ethical commission as some kind of special, so to speak, the body, a higher form of justice, a greater sense of wisdom, etc., etc. So I wanted to say something about that. But just as I am almost a colleague, Josipovic, who appeared new again in the Assembly, although I am a relapser, let me, therefore, introduce myself to another kind of problem that I have heard here and to be something more practical. The Ethics Commission doesn't exist. There is, therefore, a commission to prevent conflicts of interest. In order to have such a single body, which is the most similar concept, so to speak, of the regulatory body, it must be derived from some principles which, in the political body, cannot be different than political, but should also take into account elements that are outside the policy itself. So outside Parliament, which means elements of civil society, elements of the variety of professions that participate in such a single decision. Of course it is not good to be lawyers, they should almost be banned from being inside because they will pass laws, and some other people from other experiences will also participate in such a single decision. But it is understood that some political equilibri, equilibris, must be achieved there because it is an expression of the way some decision can be passed and some thought, I say, of a politically effective jargon first and then in a politically effective practice. What surprised me isn't, to say the different failings in forming these committees because we've had that before. I'd like to remind myself that we haven't managed to form several regulatory bodies lately even though we had the best intentions. We formed the HRT Council, perhaps not in the happiest way... and in the election of this Council, those who should have been subject to consensus and position and opposition have not been elected. [[no switch]] Because right from the start, I've been saying that to those who will be more verifiable supporters of one or another option, I don't want to go in now in this way in terms of relations between the opposition and the government. In fact, the problem of the existence of such bodies has also occurred in the election of the Council for Electronic Media, which the Government could propose to this Assembly in its earlier composition, it has not proposed. He may not have suggested it from the reason that his colleague Stazic would have called that such a body should not be proposed at the last minute, but he did not propose it among other things, which is very difficult to reach consensus on such bodies. However, if something can't be done, there can't be another speech and I'm going to quote the esteemed colleague Baby. He said something that in itself would actually deny the general sense of choosing this body, he said we classified one from the opposition. We have placed one out of the opposition, and that is to the extent that it is only a contradictory sentence to delegates that are included in the opposition as opposition because it is classified as a Jedi of opposition. I'm actually kind of jumping off this kind of language that kind of demonstrates that I don't understand what this is about, here should be achieved primarily by consensus. I also think that there is no happy path within the opposition in some way to create such separatical ones to say the agreements that are ultimately confirmed here by applauses that are no longer deployed on nalchein as we usually think they are allocated power and opposition, but I mean to say that we have classified one from the opposition is really one very serious delegation of this all that this body should mean. Why don't we please move nicely, although I'm not being referred to the last conversation between the clubs, why don't we settle this issue very simply. If 7 clubs have proposed Mr Tadic in a row, the 7th member is Mr Tadic. Who and for what reason stands in the way of such a single solution can now decide here. It is up to you, or it will be such that we have a body that someone even dares to call an ethical commission that has no minimum credibility. The challenge is very clear, gentlemen, you can very simply solve this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u847	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Representative Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u848	In the absence of arguments, Mr Vujic tends to classify the issue, they have included so much in the Board of Appoints and so much from the opposition, and not one but three, so it is a correction of the incorrect quote. And what you want to point at the lack of arguments for this debate, that's your business, Mr. Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u849	Thank you. The same replica, Mr. Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u850	Mr. President, I would agree with this latest proposal by Mr. Vujic, but my replica would go in the next direction. Here, 5.6 parliamentary deputies said in advance that the public would have no confidence in this commission, I think it's incorrect. Behind each of us ladies and gentlemen stands 10 to 20 thousand citizens, not these citizens are not guilty of this trust, we create this trust with this relationship to each other. I really propose if it is possible for the Committee to meet to propose Mr Tadic, I am deeply convinced that this is a solution and that we finally take this point off the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u851	Replica Mr. Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u852	Mr. Replical President Mr. Vujic, here in Article 209(3), it is explained what the replica is, so I disagree with what my colleague Vujic said, but when I have enough time, because two minutes suggest that I can speak, I have my own proposal. Here I would suggest that the 7th member, let it be Mr. Zlatko Tomcic, he is perfectly understood in the conflict of interest other than that the man is retired will have plenty of time to do this job. So this is at the level of the debate we had last night and today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u853	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Ljubica Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u854	Mr. President, we have sought to refrain from this debate by safeguarding Parliament's dignity, we expect President-in-Office of the Parliament to guard both Parliament and parliamentary representatives. And let me, in this way, speak of a fellow representative who is not present I think it is inappropriate and inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-27-0.u855	Thank you. I'm sorry my colleague Lonchar said that... I can't react there, I can't react preventively, I'm sorry and I'm closing the debate on this subject. I'm closing the debate. Gentlemen and ladies MPs, if this committee hadn't been elected tonight, what would be the question? The legality of payouts would be at stake, and to whom? From the Chiefs and Mayors, from the Commander of the Armed Forces Corps, from the Commander and Deputy Commander of the Armed Forces, from the Defence Inspectors, etc., from the entire group of officials in the Office of the President of the Republic, all the Head of the Office, Director, Agency, Director of the Government and Directors of the Office. From state inspectors, treasurers, rectors, proprietors, all lawyers, their deputies, chief state auditors and deputies, governor, deputy governor and vice governor, not counting the judges of the Constitutional Court and the President, not counting all branches, all three branches of government and legislative and executive authorities and local self-government. There was plenty of time to get along. The law is clear. This commission will elect amongst itself a representative who will be from the ranks of the opposition. Please quorum. There are 86 MPs in the hall. The decision-making quorum exists. Who's for this proposal on the Committee, please? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, with 3 votes, it is abstentioned both against and 84 for the elected committee to decide on a conflict of interest in the composition as proposed by the Committee for the Selection of Appoints and Administrative Affairs. I am concluding the third session of the Croatian Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our session. I'd like to welcome the students of the University of Economics and Bureau of Bjelovar School who will accompany a part of the session, so let's welcome our young friends. And friends. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to one. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, first reading P.Z. No. 8 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause.]] You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on the Economy. The reports of the committee other than the Legislative Committee already before you these two committees are multiplying, will be in front of the MPs in a few moments. Mr. President, please. Ivo Sanader to further explain this bill's proposal. Here you go, Mr. President.
