ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10389	We are moving to - Report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2003. In accordance with Article 18. The Law on the Ombudsman for children has been delivered to the Report. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committees on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the report at the session. I ask the Ombudsman for the children of Ljubica Matijević-Vrsaljko to take the floor and vice president of the House, Mrs Vesna Pusic, to take over the presidency of the Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10390	Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Vice President, the esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This report, which has been presented to you, refers to the period of time from 25 September which is the date of the oath before this Croatian Assembly and the date of formal entry into office until 31 December. So it's a time period of only 3 months. The report is structured in a way that I considered it necessary to inform you about the preparatory work that was done in the meantime and the affairs of administrative technical and organisational nature, since it was a completely new institution. The 6th 10th took up space in Hebrang's 4th, which was completely devastated and actually very bad. He was arranged sometime by mid-November 2003, and since then the Office has started working, with work in those areas. We used space time to present ourselves in the media, especially in that part of the media that is available to children, these are children's missions, to get to know both the public and especially children with the role and concept of defence as well as children's rights. I can also be very pleased to inform you that Croatia has been a member of our European ombutsman Network for Children since last autumn, which is an esteemed association of European such or similar institutions. In the report, in the first part of the Report, three cases were actually apostropheeded, which is the case of "Story Super New Juniors", a children's show where there was a hard mockery and mockery sent to children by an adult member of the jury in that show that made fun of children, made fun of, and at one point, he threw the girl his room number. In that case, the Office intervened in a letter to the New TV Agency and the boy, a young man who laughed at his children, and he apologized and we noticed that there was no longer his presence in the show and in the public at all. Another case is the case of a girl named Elle who was terrible and far back before, before the period of this Report was publicly exploited and in which the child’s privacy, his health condition and personal opportunities were unnecessarily exposed to the public’s attention and interest, in which however, the child’s only most minimally integrated into the school and social environment. Namely, the girl goes to class today with only two children and I can't accept that the class of three students in one box is half, full of children, that it's a class in real terms. In my opinion, it's a class just, well, in a formal sense, we can call it that. Also, on these days when enrolment of children in the first grade of primary school, the Government of the Republic of Croatia was instructed to direct and pray to the local community to make all preparations for the departure of the other girl to school, who also lives in this foster family, so that God would not give such a situation or similar situation to the harm of children and to the shame of this country and this autumn. Compared to the second subject I consider necessary, the third case is the case of a boy from Cameroon who ended up in a children's hospital in Zagreb and after committing suicide by drinking half a liter of varicina, he is a child without parental ageing, a child arrested in the area of Ozlja and sent to the House for children with behavioural disorders in Dugava. Since he was completely unadjusted there because of his black skin experience and attacks by other children, there was this attempt of suicide and, in fact, the will and benevolence of all the bodies in this case, the boy is located in the Children's House of Nazorova, or in the home for the boys in Selska, and now he does well and does not do to the staff, nor does the staff have any problems with him. However, this case has been updated by a serious problem of child treatment without parental care because Croatia is certainly a country where children with inadequate parental escorts can be found very often in transit, and I can primarily say that I do not consider it appropriate for these children to be placed in homes for children with behavioral disorders because they do not have behavioural disorders. There was also a custody problem. The fact is that custodians don't know language many times, so there's no elemental communication between proteges and custodians and other problems. Since we are probably also present in the media and have met the public, citizens, especially children with the existence of the Office very often this has been reflected in the way that citizens have reported to this Office with their own incentives in order to assess and protect children's rights. If I had to make statistics now, about 20 to 25% of the cases are about the slowness of the work of the judiciary. No lawyer has the right to intervene and intervene in the work of the court in any way. But what I think I should say to you as advocates is that I find it absolutely inadmissible that a first-degree ruling in cases for abstention would be pending for three, five or seven years, and in the meantime the child has no regulated issue of temporary restraint, either through a temporary measure by the court, either through the Institute of Temporary Restraint by the Centre for Social Care. Also, citizens, mostly mothers, have shown great difficulty in the procedure of enforcement because neither the court nor the credentials of children can be as creative and imaginative as a debtor who avoids payment of restraint. And finally, one problem identified during the litigation process is that there is a huge disproportionate balance between the shown revenues and the actual revenues. It's not rare for a parent-restraint bond as if it's challenging. They come to court with expensive cars, in expensive suits, it is evident that they live more than decently, and that they bring confirmations that they are unemployed or that their income is 1,000 kuna per month. In that sense, it might be good to think about perhaps changing the legislation in that sphere. In addition, a large number of cases relate to complaints and lack of sensitivity and lack of understanding of social care centre staff, both in terms of deadlines, as parents consider it, to show a lack of understanding for treatment. In a particular section of the case, any party who loses the dispute, I do so as a lawyer formerly know, it has the right to be dissatisfied and the party can bring its assessment in a case of less or more that it is satisfied with the treatment. However, when these items are required for insight, we can indeed say in a certain number that deadlines of 60 days for the adoption of a temporary measure to trust a child are not respected. Namely, the process of intervening with the Centre for Social Care is the procedure when parents show the greatest tension emotionally, psychologically, and when their argument certainly exists to the greatest extent. Very often parents use their children and procedures in the center to calculate their property, emotional, and other relationships through them, while neglecting the interest of children. When the Centre for Social Care contributes to this situation by failing to bring this temporary measure within 60 days, it sometimes takes 6, 7 or 8 months as if the state were in fact sending a message in some way that these unresolved conditions allowed such violence against children to take place. In a certain number of centres they have indeed done all they can to help parents within the limits of their powers, but parents have completely unreasonablely demonstrated the absence of irons by any cooperation and assistance of the child, and by my assessment, one need has proved to consider setting up perhaps to start at the county level of a highly specialised family counsellor who, by means of professional work, would help the parents of such situations the bodies, institutions to address these situations. It's easy in Zagreb. There are also marriage counselling centres, there is a polyclinic for the protection of children of the city of Zagreb. I know it's 28. 4. such counselling is established in Split. However, it is very doubtful to me that with children on islands, in small areas in areas of special state concern, where children and parents have identical problems and have no help at all? No one can expect anyone from Topusko or anyone in the vicinity of Grazac or Slavonia to go to counseling in Split or Zagreb. I think one day when you decide to think about it. However, two items have been apostrophe in this report however much, I'll probably, in this exhibit, cause part of myself, anger, the institution of social care, but somewhere it's my role, I have to be prepared to make me a certain number of people and not like me. In two cases, and they were described on pages 32 and 35 of the report, I don't think the welfare bodies really did everything they had to do to protect the child. The first item is a boy about an almost typical case that a child is entrusted to his mother. It was a 10-year-old boy, the father held the wrong child after the divorce and did not return it to his mother and not return it until today for a year and a half. The mother warned from the social care centre, the state's attorney's office, she went completely desperate to HHO, UNICEF, all possible bodies of the organisations. However, it was only a year and a half after the illegal seizure and ended up in a polyclinic to protect children with a diagnosis of emotionally severely abused child and child severely induced by father against mother. In my opinion, such an assessment of such an observation of experts should have come a long way earlier. Finally, there was also a ruling by the Croatian Court, and I believe that no citizen has the right to take justice into his own hands and change the fact that there is no respect for the existing legal situation. There are, therefore, regular instruments, it's a typical example, and now it's happening, until this boy, for almost two years now, hasn't seen his mother, or communicated with her, I don't think there's any expert who's going to say it like that, maybe it's not a proper expression in this place to put that child back together, because it's not at all as much as a mother needs in every child's life. It's perfectly clear, and I accept the child's right to express his opinion and to have that opinion in... that he wants to see his dad, live with his dad. There's no dispute about that. But that two years in Zagreb can't see her mother and that her mother is talking to HHO, UNICEF-the state's attorney's office, the welfare center, and that after a year and a half after the child in the Social Care Center sees her there spit, swearing, pushing her legs, I don't think it should have come at all. The second item is the subject of an exile family from Slavonia, which ended up in Rovinj in a exile camp, so they've been living there for 9 years now, it's one terrible item about 10 children of young age, who are completely healthy, educational, social and in every sense abandoned. The Centre for Social Care had knowledge if not earlier, and in my opinion, he had to have knowledge of exiles in his field and care for them and help those parents, but he had been aware since 2001 that these children were heavily abandoned. Part of the children are seriously ill, in the eyes, some blind, blind, with eye prosthetics, girls with mental retardation and immobilizing. And those who are healthy don't go to school at all, and one goes to school, it's completely educationally abandoned in a way that swears, beats teachers, spits, emergencyes outside the toilet. Educational authorities warned the centre, the association that informed me of the case wrote countless times, both the centre of the police and the whole, while the father was tried for child and wife abuse in the period from 95 to 2001, so over a period of six years. However, even today, these children live with their parents, in my view on completely inappropriate occasions, this subject where we notified the authorities of supervision, so the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and we felt it was necessary to inform the Government. What I know now is the freshest, that the father is now in custody, that a new criminal report has been filed for the new criminal part of child abuse for a new period not covered by the verdict, from 2001 to today. So now in a year we're going to have a period of 10 years of child abuse, and now whatever we're all doing for those kids, some things are irretrievably lost. Because not acting in health care and in education definitely can't make up for it, none of us can go to elementary school now. And finally, here I finally see that maybe I've taken my word too long. More and more often, even during 2003, children appeared to us, and especially and most of all pointed to the problem of peer violence among children, to this extent, it is also about verbal violence, so insults, threats, kidnapping of lunches, money, it is about severe physical violence, not just pushing, pricking, pushing a chair, but hitting hands and legs, I can tell you the example of illustrations, a terrified example of a girl who was put over her head by peers, took her hands, and dragged her around the tent around the school. It's also a case of a boy who's been mutilated by force. So I think that violence among children is actually a reflection of a large amount of violence in the adult world, because that's the message we're sending. What I can tell you, what I think is good and bright, which I really believe is that right now there is a government programme to prevent violence among young people, who are very, very structured, clear carriers and clear deadlines. This time is 1.5. is the deadline, the first deadline for the evaluation of this programme, I strongly believe in that programme, and seriously my duty to call those bodies that do not act on it, because I think the situation is more than catastrophic, and this is what we were warned about in early 2004, and the situation in children's homes, but children's homes are not the only place where they happen, violence is happening among children. And what I'm trying to tell you at the end of the day, as a child lawyer, doesn't make any sense unless he hangs out and hears the kids. We are somewhere to get the first picture of the childhood of Croatia and to hear the voice of the children, and we are doing it today, and we are doing it today, letters to schools, NGOs, primary and secondary schools, children's homes with a request to write to us about how they perceive their rights, what happens to them, whether they were discriminated, abused, what they would tell me and those who decide what needs to be changed, and I am, for that, and also in the role of their own spokesperson of children in this place and because these children in some letters asked me to speak their voice to the representatives in the Croatian Assembly. I have given myself the freedom to attach some of these letters and messages to this report, which are very indicative of these problems which are also the subject of the Report. Although it's of course, and quite unusual. Children are always in one sphere that they don't have anything. They don't have the right to vote, they don't have their political parties, they don't have the availability of information and they don't have the physical strength that the adult world often benefits when it lacks some other arguments. I of course, this may be more and too long than usual, I remain at my disposal, at the position of all possible answers, suggestions or remarks to this report. Too long, too long as ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10391	I would like to thank Madam Vice-President, Madam Advocate for the children, dear colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Human Rights and Rights Committee of the National Minorities, I will not only commend the work of the Attorney General and say that, of course, we have unanimously supported this report. But I would be very happy to, as an interested body at our 4th session, to have a comprehensive discussion of this issue with which we attach great importance, to bring out a part of our debate, and I believe that this is also a contribution to the overall resolution of this problem in society in general. Therefore, our Committee has assessed that the fundamental task and role of the Ombudsman for children, to meet children with their rights and ways of achieving and protecting them, but it is also necessary to highlight this with particular emphasis on obligations. We feel that children should also be taught obligations from birth. We also believe that the possibility of the attorney general being available is something that we need to provide as well as support for the media, which, by sensitizing society on this issue, has special significance. We also assess the very important and action of courts and centres for social care and other bodies that participate generally in this family problem but all for the protection of the rights and interests of children in particular. We therefore consider the inadmissible slowness of resolving these issues in our courts, and we believe that either in the context of special departments in courts, so-called. the family departments speed up solving this problem because only a timely settlement brings justice to that one, and in this case the weakest part of the population, children and in this case, the timely resolution of litigation means justice. Under the circumstances, there is often no implementation of the implementation when special problems have already been addressed, and we believe that these mechanisms and these solutions should be given priority. What we have discussed about the Alimitation Fund is considered to be a good, i.e. the State Child Support Fund, but we do not consider it a model that would essentially improve non-payment of liabilities, but we consider it to be the one that will speed up payment by commitments but also force the one who has the obligation to do so on time. We also believe that the resolution ministries, or all those who deal with this problem, have to engage more in education and return, that is particularly important, and that segment we are considering in particular, the dignity of teachers and teachers at school, which we believe is not at this point and are often also problems in schools, we hope that this will be resolved more favourably. The financial resources needed to do so, we believe that we need to increase, and not in the end, I would say that the special groups of children within these groups, such as persons with disabilities and children with special needs, were also in the area of our consideration, and we were very pleased to hear from the Advocate General that this particular section is expanding and that it is on a tour, so the institution dealing with children with disabilities and children with special needs. Once again, the unanimous report has been accepted, we commend the work of the Attorney General and expect cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10392	I thank the representatives of Sučec-Tracostanec, on behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the National Minority, who informed us of the Committee's conclusions. Are there any other representatives of the board? If not, we're going to the club debate. The first is the SDP Club and representative Milanka Opačić, please welcome Mrs Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10393	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Advocate for the children, colleagues and fellow MPs. I think here it is, and not only through these reports that we have heard today but also all of what we have been able to hear on all the committees through which this report has been passed by the Ombudsman for children, so it could be seen that everyone is supporting this report, not only that, but that everyone in some way has given support to this completely new institution that may be working effectively for only three months. So, one institution that we considered in the previous Assembly's session that it was necessary to establish it in the Republic of Croatia, and I think that already now after this very short work and after this report that we received in written form, and this everything that the Ombudsman said in her oral presentation shows, therefore, that the full justification for the existence of such a special institution that deals with the rights and protection of children has been justified. It should also be said that this House has made very big legislative changes over the past 4 years that have been in favour of greater child protection than that we have increased prison sentences for those who abuse and neglect children, that we have introduced many safeguards, that we have established a completely different way of questioning and trial in youth courts when it comes to child abuse. All in order, then, to protect children who have been victims of abuse from further abuse of the system from the moment the child is prosecuted. We have also managed to give much greater authority to police when it comes to data collection and child abuse arguments, namely, we have raised these measures to the level of what is treated as a national threat in the Criminal Code and criminal procedure. We also succeeded last year and hired about 185 mental health experts in primary and secondary schools, not enough because the lack of this type of expertise in our schools is much, much larger than this number that has been employed in the past year and I am sorry that there is no provision for additional employment of this type of experts in our schools. Without them, there will be no solution to what the lawyer was talking about here, which is bulling, or Croatian-speaking violence among children at school. I will say here that I think it is a very big problem for children, not so much perhaps in this legislative work as in that implementing body, namely, it is still a very inert system in our country when it comes to child protection. In fact, those who are victims of violence still have to push the entire system themselves to protect themselves and to sanction abusers. It's something that's absolutely unacceptable. The whole system here should be primarily in, aimed at protecting the victim of abuse and what is possible before the consequences of this abuse are as low as possible. Unfortunately, the system is such that the victim must, in fact, be pushed all the time by his pawn and his initiatives to achieve something. Unfortunately, there is still one practice in Croatia that can be called a low-resistance line, which is a practice in which no knowledge of child abuse is reported. Article 300. The Penal Code has imposed a criminal offence on all those who work with children, who are in contact with children, who know about therefore child abuse and who do not report this knowledge. It is that many professional associations such as the Medical Chamber have failed to properly educate and inform the doctor that at the time when they do not report abuse they know are committing a crime according to Article 300. Penalty law. Likewise, all those as members of a family who know that a child is being abused, and a very large number of cases where family members or fathers, uncles or anyone else abuse a child often know about this abuse and, under the pretext of keeping the family together do not want to report it, also commits a criminal offence under the Penal Code. I will also say here that there is no systematic education for all people who work with children. There is not even what is very, very dangerous and sometimes appears in our courts as a very great danger that those who should be sanctioned avoid the right punishment. It's about judicial skill, which is in some way the latest in the court case, the court's witches, where there is no such thing as systematic education for these people who will tomorrow bring their last word to whether or not the child is abused. In all Western countries there is a certain education programme that must pass, there are a number of hours that must be spent working with abused children, there are certain interviews, a number of interviews that must be done with abused children. There are some mentors who work with them and teach them how to come and how to get the right and safe indicators that the child is abused or not. In Croatia, therefore, there is no problem with the systematic education of all those who work with children is a very, very big problem. Here I'm also going to say about, something about certain actions of bodies that should work to prosecute abusers, which, in some cases, I don't know why they're stopping the persecution of abusers. This time I'm going to talk about a problem so sexual and emotional abuse by my own father where, uh, the State's Attorney's Office in a very inappropriate way had an impact on the moment when the county's state's attorney who conducted the process was several days on vacation, so at this one small interval when he was on vacation, individuals from the State's Attorney's Office stopped and withdrew criminal charges and stopped the prosecution of a sex offender like this. What is saddest in this whole story is that this child is now completely left legally and legally, left to the mercy and mercy of further abuse by his own parents. Unfortunately, there are also cases where purely sexual abuses that have been documented as or qualified by the State’s Attorney’s Office as a fornication. For a whore shop as far as I'm aware, the prison sentence is three years, for sexual abuse is 15 years. Therefore, there is a very big difference in the very penalty that the abuser will receive and a very large difference in age is therefore outdated in years because unfortunately it is the processes that are very, very long run in our courts. Therefore, this fact, therefore, is extremely important for the abuser to be punished. I just have to say, for example, I've tried to increase it a little because I wanted you to see one piece of evidence. So this is a drawing of a girl who drew what her relationship with her father looked like. So this is where one sexual relationship was drawn. The girl was abused from nine to 17 years of her life. Everyone in her family knew about this abuse. No one reported him. No one helped her. When she turned 18, she reported her own father and her own brother for years of abuse. Unfortunately, it's too late because the traumas of long-term sexual abuse have left a mark on such a young creature as this little girl was. Unfortunately, there are a lot of these drawings that I could show here, and here often happens that one of these proofs is bagatelized and interpreted exclusively as a fornication. What's a good trend lately, which is that judges most often say for this kind of abuse the hardest possible, so punishment, therefore, the highest sentence of 15 years. I hope that even in these subsequent amendments to the Penal Code, there will be some further shifts in that section to send a social message that child abuse is inappropriate and that it should be properly punished. There was something here by the attorney general and said about buliing in schools, so violence among children. I absolutely think we can agree with one fact that it is therefore violence that children see around them and see it for example in their family. Unfortunately, we do very little to break up this hellish cycle of violence because many studies have shown that 75% of men who abuse their wives and children in the family are actually people who were abused themselves in childhood. So no one helped them. No one told them that abuse is something that is not a way to behave, which is not a pattern of good conduct and that it is not something that they should carry on, and that is why we have a situation where children here abuse each other until we even have very serious injuries among children. For example, a study of the “Courage Phone” Association dealing with abused and neglected children where, for example, in Croatian schools, there was a knowledge that every fourth child was exposed to violence from its peers, that 27% of the students surveyed experienced at least one form of violence at school almost daily. But what's worrying is that there's a growing number of children who are both victims and abusers. So children simply project one model that is applied to them project it further. As they fight so they fight and the rest of the children, that's something we must worry about. For example, 16% of children are violent against other children on a daily basis. It's 33% of the boys and 17% of the girls. And that's why it's very important for schools to go to further employment of mental health professionals, to educate them in this part, as well as to introduce to schools what some of us talked about yesterday, and this is an education for non-violent conflict resolution, and therefore from children already, when they're in kindergarten until the youngest age, we teach them that if Marko took Ana autotic that it can be solved differently and therefore it doesn't have to be solved by slapping, pushing, and so on. As early as we are, we need to teach our children nonviolent conflict resolution. I'm just going to say one more thing about what it means to keep quiet about child abuse, which I think is what's the biggest problem not reporting the abuse of silence is a crime. A month ago, I had opportunities in Split to watch a documentary film, a confession from a man who grew up today as a defectologist, so an expert who works with children today. The man who told his story about the abuse of his stepmom as she fried his ass on the stove, how she tied him up, how he had all his teeth cut out. What he said on that show must be a message to all of us. His message didn't hurt me so much the trauma that I went through, all the abuses I've been through, of course, are some scars, the biggest trauma I have to date is that no one has helped me. Everyone knew everyone had seen my broken head, my bleeding teeth, my neck that was a lot of scars, my arms that had been broken, kicked out, my burns all moved away from me like I was a bug and nobody wanted to help me. From the professor. Doctor, neighbor, relative. It must be a message to all of us silence is a crime every one of us who knows about child abuse is obliged to report it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10394	Thank you, Mrs. Opacic. On behalf of the HD ClubFor Representative Maria Byte. Here you go, Mrs. Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10395	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for the year 2003, the Croatian Democratic Community Club takes note. The Ombudsman for children was established by law in May 2003, appointed in July 2003, and the attorney-general took office by way of a long oath before the Croatian Parliament on 25 September 2003. So in this report, we are discussing a report in time of about three months. Children of youth and minors of the powerless person under special care are Croatian states, the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 61, 62, 63 and 634. The Constitution. The Republic of Croatia signed and ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child and thus assumed the obligation to implement it as an amendment to the law in accordance with the Convention, which means it has committed itself to increasing sensitivity in protecting children against all forms of physical or mental violence. These must be watched closely over possible violations of the rights of the child, neglect, exploitation and physical punishment of children. One of the tasks of the Ombudsman for children is to get to know children with their rights and how to protect them but at the same time to their obligations. Especially would be important indicators of domestic violence because they are often exactly where they should be most protected and get the best possible care and development incentives for children often and victims. First and foremost the right of the child must not forget it, to be loved. And we often forget the famous Little Prince sentence, all the big ones were children first, but few remember it. During their lives, they are faced with a large number of the most distasteful and traumatic events, as well as losses that leave different consequences in us. Children of what is happening to them interpret and experience within the framework of their lifeless experience, and often very traumaticly experience events and losses here we must also not forget Croatian reality and war and war and war. In order not only to list facts but also to really help children, it is necessary to understand first and foremost what is happening in the child, it must include, in a timely manner, all the competent auctioning bodies in particular centres of social care and adapt the consent to each individual child. Especially children with disabilities and special needs. Before coming to a social institution, many children are exposed to insufficient opportunities for full growth and development, sexual abuse and traumatic events and violence between parents and parents. The violence involving children's violence against children must cause not only increased concern but also effective protection of the Office of Advocates for Children. In doing so, the role of the entire community is especially the media. The Ombudsman’s report shows that children’s rights, including protection of privacy, are often unconscious but in the most harsh way possible abused through the media. Lately, much has been said about respect and violation of human rights among which children make a special group. Based on the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the Republic of Croatia, their children are guaranteed their rights, but according to the Croatian Democratic Community Club, the aim is to ensure that children are not only legally guaranteed rights but that their violation and hence the need for legal measures is reduced to the least possible measure. And that's why we're finally asking what we're willing to do about the individuals. Are we sensitive enough to react to the rights of children and how to apply them? When children are provided to the greatest extent possible, good conditions for life and development when they have enough food, provided daily care and training for the child is lovingly necessary for adults to be present in their lives as human and psychological ones. how interested partners who sensually respond to their needs and participate in their lives. By ensuring the conditions in which a child truly lives, their rights are raised by citizens who live their rights simultaneously to respect and promote the right of another. The report on the work of the Ombudsman for children shows that the work of the office with security of space and professional teaming has been directed towards the care and care of children, as a priority given by the Republic of Croatia in its creation to reduce and prevent violence against and among children. For this reason, the Croatian Democratic Community club, a report on the work of the children's defenders for 2003v. The year accepts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10396	Thank you, Mrs. Byte. On behalf of the club HSPa representative Mr. Pero Kovacevic please welcome Mr. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10397	Madam Vice President, Madam Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Party Rights Club, or expert team, has made an effort to address the fundamental problem of child protection and the achievement of children's rights in Croatia. Because we know what children mean and what the child's half is like, we've heard a lot here. But most importantly, in all of this I'm going to tell you here a lot has been said about how much in terms of rights and norming the regulation of rights has been done, it's true it's done a lot. But very little is almost nothing done in terms of establishing an effective system that will enable and protect children and in terms of the exercise of these rights. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament should undertake activities aimed at protecting and enabling children's rights to be exercised above all means an effective system. In Croatia, this phenomenon has been understood as normal in the last ten years, and there has been an increase in various state services, institutions dealing with the same problem, and so is the protection and rights of the child. Unfortunately, these numbered shifts, and later I will tell you that we and in this area are too much to deal with, have not won what is most important that we have made a shift precisely in terms of the achievement and protection of children's rights. The shift has only been made in terms of promoting media about rights, and that has to be said, but the most important shift has not been made, and that is the shift in the establishment of a system that will work in terms of the exercise of rights. Therefore, we also take this report into account, and we cannot believe that this report can be adopted at this time. Namely, what we have. We have 40 pages of content and essential and irrelevant, highlighted and the color of the outstanding problems that is returning to that initial debate of 2000/2001. In fact, experts were not very unique in whether there should be a State's Attorney's Office for Children, or the State's Attorney. This was also contained in the State Institute itself for the Protection of Family, Motherhood and Youth at the time. There was a lot of division, even one of them talked about the fact that it was going more politically to form this one body to say again that it was done a lot, so we set up and we have a state's attorney for children to say that there's a lot going on, and yet in terms of realisation, there's nothing done. So now I'm going to look back at the report itself and point out a lot of unspeakable things that have been said here. Point 2 of the report, at the beginning of the report on work on two pages, describes too detailed the procedure for the appointment of deputies. Is this necessary in this report on two pages to describe the procedure for the appointment of the Deputy Advocate, since it is obvious that someone or doubtes when described on two pages and is then further listed in the specific paragraph under the same paragraph 2 as it is necessary for the deputies to have a driving licence. I mean, these are totally irrelevant things for the report, because we're interested in how children's rights are achieved, not whether the deputy has to have a driver's license and to explain on two pages why the lady was appointed a deputy. Well, it's been appointed, and it's been voted to explain it now. And now we come up with the most important things, and that's the important thing. How'd we get a child counsel? The status of the Ombudsman for children is set as a set of characteristics of different world solutions, but with us only those relating to good personal status and the position of defenders, deputies and others working in this institution. And yet here we forget that all these jobs that are planned here are performed by various other bodies in the state, so now I'm just going to mention to you what all these bodies are. So we have a standard counsel for the kids, we know. After that, we also have a council for children. It is an occasional body composed of representatives of different bodies, decisions on the establishment of a Children's Council published in "The People's Newspaper" and it is quite... And now we're moving on. We also have within the Ministries first within the framework of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, a department called the Department of Children and Youth, but this department has two subsections, the Department of Children, the Youth Department. Further within the same ministry, we have the Department of Child and Family Protection, and within that department there are three sub-sections again, and now we'll hear which. Department for Peaceful Family Legal Protection, adopt and care, Department for Child Protection without adequate parental care and victims of family violence and we have Department for the Protection of Children with Disabilities in Conduct. But that's not all, and in the Ministry of Health and Social Care there's a Department of Child Protection, Family and Care who normally has two subsections, and that's the Department of Family Legal Protection and the Department of Child Protection and Youth Protection with Disabilities in Behavior. It is therefore evident how many different bodies we have, and we look at the jurisdiction all doing the same, and basically nobody is doing anything because we know and we have heard the examples that Mrs Byte said on behalf of the HDZ Club and her colleague Opačić on behalf of the SDP Club, what is the real situation. So that's enough, she's just telling herself everything. We're out of control, and yet we haven't done anything concrete. Now let's go to other parts of the report. Points 3 to 4 of the report contains numerous non-essential data without any financial indicators. These are prep jobs and office space. It is obvious that every time we establish something we are never ready to know in advance where this body will operate, space and everything else than we are establishing, the Croatian Parliament adopts a law or that the Government will pass it, and then it will take us about five or six months to find a place to start working concretely. Let's move on to point 5 to 11 of the Ombudsman's activities for children. Insignificant events on participation in radio shows and meeting attendance are described. Several images of concrete cases of media manipulation deserve... and take the necessary measures to eliminate and sanction such phenomena because it has hurt these children more than it has benefited them. But what concerns this report is that there is simply no position on the state of rights and the protection of children in almost one area, and we know that there are numerous individual and general problems in all areas – in preschool education, in primary education, in secondary education, in health care, in social care, in negative birth, and especially in the situation of children and parents. The real protection of children and ensuring that all the rights that belong to them are not possible through a number of bodies that will further establish new coordination bodies and will ultimately be their own purpose and all on the burden of the state budget. On the other hand, we only have a case of implanted snails in children with hearing damage. It depends on the mercy of the citizens. Therefore, it is obvious that there are a huge number of problems, and in this report has not touched at all on essential problems in all these areas and therefore we are also appealing to the government to consider whether this kind of over-normation is necessary, means a lot of bodies dealing with the same topic, and in fact we have no one dealing systematically with this topic and the HDZ Club has said that it is taking note of this report, we are also taking this report to know and it would be necessary to task the Government to take appropriate measures and not to have only prescribed rights without the exercise of these rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10398	I thank the representative of the HSP Club. On behalf of the HSS club representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go, Mrs. Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10399	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Attorney General, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, the reports that are ahead of us show the problems the office was facing when it was set up. It's probably just part of the problem, and it's pretty sure it's not just about space and needing personnel. The Ombudsman herself, although appointed on July 17th, took office only on September 25th, 2003, and therefore this report does not apply to the whole year, but actually refers to the last three months of 2003. Although this is a short period of time from the report, it is evident that the establishment of the office was necessary and justified by work. We are saddened by a harsh violation of children's rights even on television, which in our opinion should be a promoter of human rights, especially those of the most vulnerable, and these are children. Television is the most powerful medium and as such is obliged to take over the task of which it is expected to be carried out. On the other hand, we look forward to the fact that the Attorney's Office has stopped by force of authority the children from being thrown out to shame and ridicule and the occurrence of a violation of their dignity. This report gives a detailed picture and a case that has been the main news for weeks both on TV and on radio and on all daily and weekly newspapers in Croatia. This example is evidence of human insensitivity when it comes to profit, that golden calf of modern times. To spread the news, but also to produce news only because of the increase in demand for press, not taking into account the price paid by the one to whom the news refers is indeed terrifying. Especially if the price of insensitiveness is paid by a child who is not in his own will in a situation that is tragic in itself. If every citizen has the right to protection of privacy as well as a child who is unfortunately not allowed to do so, his environment is neither guilty nor a duty to stagmatise, and the Stigmatisation has certainly been caused by a violation of the right to privacy. Unlike NOVA TV in this case, the Office's authority was insufficient. She had overcome the thirst for profit so that even after calling for the code of honour of Croatian journalists who needed to protect man's intimacy from unfair and sensational disclosure in the public again appeared in the newspaper by sensational secluding a sad human destiny back in childhood. During the era of moral erosion and fundamental moral values of utopia is to call for morality and compassion where there is no feeling. It is necessary to learn lessons from this case and to analyse in detail whether we have protected the privacy of every citizen as a state community enough and well-lawed norms. And in this report, we can see a large number of complaints about the slowness of courts, mainly in cases relating to the determination and collection of child restraints. It is unacceptable to tolerate 5, 7 or more years in these cases. We have only been finding too long the slowness of the courts without the solution of this fundamental obstacle to the functioning of the rule of law. There have been reflections and attempts to make payments faster and more effective through the sphere of criminal responsibility for avoiding payment of abstention. But these attempts will be unsuccessful again because of the slowness of the courts. This inadmissible slowness is a pessimism, and as regards the fulfillment of the role that is intended for them by the Family Law, which we have already extended in certain provisions. It is very worrying that the data on the dispute of the social care centre in failing to decide on the requirements set by the Law, as well as the lack of sensitivity and understanding of experts in these centres in the family problem, in the area of the protection of the rights and interests of children. What I think is very worrying for me and for us in Croatia, the peasant party, which is a growing increase in violence among schoolmates, on the streets, in society in general, and even this violence of course during its development comes to the point of murder because of the dispute over the parking space. Of course, we as a society must make great efforts to form these children from the earliest childhood into mature members of society by rearing them in detail. Of course, violence is likely due to the lack of adequate education both in family and in school and in society, but we cannot expect that only society can play a crucial role in raising. After all, the family is a fundamental unit, the first elements of education are obtained, and everything else is just a continuation of that education and a continuation of that education brings us to a healthy member of a community. Of course, the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this Report and it is obvious that the Ombudsman has a place of its own, and that the area of its work is very wide and of course when we analyse these reports for this year that we will have much more information and that we will probably, by virtue of these reports, draw some lessons, and we will probably bring all the conclusions in the function and protection of the rights of the child, but also raising children in the sense that, in addition to the rights, there are also obligations and responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10400	Thank you, Mrs. Lalic. On behalf of the HSLS Club, DC representative Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go, Mrs. Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10401	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, we have to make sure that it's a report that's more than three months of work. Although colleagues have already reminded that it is the Croatian Parliament's decision from July 17th, the report refers to the period from September 25th to December 31st and apparently the Ombudsman had to establish such basic things as the Office and the way they function at the very beginning of her first activities. And we know that for the first 100 days and every new government, it's mostly a little soft-eyed, so that's probably why our reports are going to be like this today on behalf of the clubs. So, in addition to the establishment and order in the Attorney General's Office and the Advocate's Office, he had to do the first, very important part of the job, which is to help the media, meetings, seminars, the stands, round tables inform the public about the establishment and activities of the Office, the rights of the child, the roles of the attorney's office, but also the ways that are particularly important, in which citizens' institutions, and especially children, can address themselves. These activities also focused on presenting and establishing cooperation with international institutions, organisations, NGOs. We have received several letters from NGOs that express satisfaction with the work of the Ombudsman and in whose work the promotion of protection and children's rights enters. In particular, it should be commended for the start of co-operation with the UNICEF Office for participating in their project called "For a Safe and Encouragement Environment in Schools", which refers to a public campaign aimed at violence against children who continue today. And we at the club think it's a campaign that should be more intense and maybe extend it to certain school programs. Co-operation with NGOs was launched, agreed cooperation with the Child Protection Clinic of the City of Zagreb, Association "Brave Phone", established ways of handling when it is necessary to intervene counsel for children. And despite these jobs in the first 100 days, we remember their actions regarding the girls Nina and Ella, the foster family of Cloud, the boy from Cameroon. The fact is that there are certain failures in the reports, however the biggest failure would certainly be that we do not have the Attorney General's Office for Children. It might be better to pay attention to the problems the report points to, and these are shortcomings in the area of family-law issues that require more effective handling of the competent authorities. First of all, the welfare center, which has been specifically discussed by colleagues. Because in such cases, in order to protect the child’s interests, any mistreatment, wrongly or wrongly, leads to severe, very often and irreparable consequences for the psychological development of children. They particularly worry about cases of violence against children that point to the need for systematic and hasty approach to solve such cases, but above all to prevent and only then to intervene, and I think we will agree that this preventive level has failed. A large number of complaints also refer to the work of courts, which may be to organise a full debate, above all to the slowness of courts in cases relating to and the payment of abstention for young children, I again mention the already slightly known fact that 60% of the alimony is not charged, which, of course, feels also on the standard of these children. So they feel their support in setting up the Fund for Temporary Child Support. As far as we're concerned about further work, I believe our discussions are useful. One of the fundamental roles of the Ombudsman for children in addition to other activities of getting to know and consulting children primarily on how to achieve and protect their rights and interests, working with children, and encouraging children to plead and respect their opinions, so the surveys that you initially explained in the opening part, I have a quality approach. It is certainly an interesting task for us to accept in this work program. And that's moving things out of place, not just our discussions. Moving that would force us to, instead of numbers or scary photos, headlines that we're willing to show are actually opening space to those whose human rights are denied and who need our help. However, in order to take this issue more seriously, I believe that there are several laws that need to be dealt with or through several areas. What we think should be discussed now is with new school programs. Is apart from meeting children with their rights, in fact the obligation of schools. We all know what today's classes look like, what kindergartens look like. And if we don't decide to return the educators to classes and schools, if we don't decide to bring an adequate school standard that will allow children what the school has missed for decades, which is to stop being just educational, but to become a educational institution again, then it seems to me that the attorney general's reports will actually look just like confession or like all the reports of the lawyers we've had so far. We'll just talk about facts, and the proposals for measures are part of the work that we have to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10402	I thank Mrs. Adlesic. We're moving on to an individual debate. In an individual discussion. The first one was signed up for debate by representative Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go, Mrs. Judge.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10403	Thank you, Madam President, thank you to the Vice President, and I would like to personally include myself in that part where, of course, I haven't touched any specific areas on the committee yet, so recalling the presentation of Ms. Attorney General, I would only once again underline that children belong to that group that have no political party, which have no right to vote, which are not the owner of any media, and therefore, adults expect us to have all of this in those parts, to help them solve those problems for which we, as parents, of course, are responsible. And there I would support the overall care of children as a family, because that's unsatisfactory. So, speaking of all these traumas, we come to one conclusion. A traumatized child comes out of a traumatized family, unfortunately what in that circle traumatizes his future children, and there he needs to cut the chain as far as possible in the roots. Of course, that I will not be able to offer these few minutes of systematic solutions, because they are part of the development society where we are, and that throughout this system is expected to improve the standards of the Croatian family, it is one of the foundations, but also education by strengthening those fundamental values that value man as a person, which appreciates primary education as a basis for learning the legality, therefore learning, work and accountability to all phenomena, so I join those who are modest in life that will put into service just such a single development of Croatian society in terms of strengthening the family, not of course that we would not object in terms of, pastoral return to some past times, but in terms of normal development of modern democracy and Europe for which we are here, AVI will probably in that part be easier to accept and systematically in all of these sex and through gender equality and through the equality of children as small people, as well as a small member of Croatia, the need not be able to be a small person and to be able to be a healthy person and to be able to be able to be a child. So in this sense, I will also be a member of the Committee and, of course, as a mother and grandmother and as some economist, I will try to help all of you children, not only those who are abused, but also those who are excellent, and here I see the possibility of our society, so that it appreciates those gifted children, to get them out of that office and that gray-haired school system, now we are participants. Therefore, those who are abused, but also those who are excellent, should be encouraged to be even more excellent, to be the bearers of the development of this society and through the system of education and in the economy. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10404	Thank you. It is up to Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10405	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, esteemed attorneys for children, colleagues and colleagues. This report is indeed different from those that we are used to receiving from those officials who are obliged after a certain period of our work to inform the Parliament. This report has a soul. First of all, because they did it, i.e. in that institution, along with the attorney general, the lawyers, who, because of the complexity of the work, were chosen, I think we did a good job, which was particularly motivated and sensitised for their work. Who love their jobs, but who aren't just Radholics, who work here to work, but because they love children. And then there's no dilemma that success is guaranteed. But at first I will also say why the specificity is, at all, the way that this report is substantiated, is because it does not only deal with facts, but within its legal possibilities, but also with will and desire achieves these results. And why is that different? Because he's not politicizing, because he's not talking about his own affirmation. As politicians often do, so they talk about one topic when there is a high level of critical mass in the public, that is to speak of it. It's saddened that the hall isn't fuller here, because we all say, we all stand up for it, everybody supports it, and everyone would be working on someone else's business, not the one they're invited to. First of all, it is one way to read from this report how many defenders meet already now and at the beginning of their work with skeletal state structures, which calls for amending the law as well as its duties, as outlined in its measures but kept silent about it. And even when we often call on the ineffectiveness of the courts, which is the cause of both objective and subjective indifference, how many times do these same courts that we are all prepared to cast criticism on and with the right of the state institutions themselves are harming, then for 15, a month and a half years go by not to respond. This is the biggest problem precisely in the problem of abstention with which courts face each other. Therefore, it is precisely the state institutions that keep certain data that the courts need in this regard are not responding. So, the important thing is, I think success will be not only about this, but about all the jobs, no matter what different bodies do, that everyone does the work that's been given to him by law. And then it's certain that success won't go away. I think we are in the past term and during the past government, but I hope that this government in this sense will continue to have one problem, to see when it comes to one problem, which means when it seems to be discussing some other topics. Let's say it was a new defense law. It's a new institution there that it's an obstacle to the service just convicted of crimes against minors, marriages, families, youth. That wasn't before. Equally such a major shift was made in the reform of criminal law. Through the reform of the Criminal Procedure Act, in better protection of minors as victims of violence, as victims of any crime. Then as a witness, it was a major problem both in the work and in the protection of the work of the courts but equally in the protection of those children who were witnesses, most often and victims themselves, so they testified about their own cause and were subsequently victimized through the process and the procedure as it was then set up. High sentences are significantly more penalties are placed where family protection is being talked about, that is, for the first time we have a criminal share of domestic violence, a comprehensive law on protection against domestic violence has been passed. What we need to do in further reform of the Penal Code, here, we will soon and we will discuss, the Government's proposal does not contain, contains the SDP proposal, but I think the Government will also resort to it because this is something that we are obliged to and by international conventions on the prevention of human trafficking, especially women and children in Trefikin where it is indeed in a new way, it is also the Government's proposal but also the SDP Club better sanction and adapts this incrimination. But what is important to note is that it is therefore necessary to prevent more penalties, this is the SDP Club and it proposes. What the public, what is particularly interested in and what causes a great revolution, are kidnappings, especially kidnappings, child abductions, in this sense the SDP Club in the novel of its criminal law foresees significantly more penalties, because as they are placed in the existing and in the Government's proposal does not keep it, they are really ridiculously low. So we still have room to help and protect the children, especially when they're victims of violence. However, it would be wrong to regard a child as a victim at all. That's usually a big problem for us, and as nations, to get out of that victim's position as active participants, to overcome that position. So it's something that's also seen here from the very report that wants the child to be not only an object or a child, but above all a subject. Here we see one commendable action, how a child, even a minor, so, a child, or older minors engage in social life, in environmental protection, in something that we considered primarily of the interest of adults. There children see interest, there children see their usefulness, after all it is all on the trail and the children's, the Convention on the Rights of the Child. So it's important to note, who reads better, it will also see that not only does violence, domestic violence, where children are a victim. Although I only have to mention one sentence, not going back to the past that it wasn't easy to reach the institution of a lawyer, or a lawyer for children at all. That for 10 years we have faced various prejudices that view this problem, the problem of generally domestic abuse. We are especially at the club, in the SDP in general, in the entire party, indicating these problems. It is also true that women’s associations have led this exactly, but it does not matter who was first in what, it is important that this is something that is now a common interest and things should be improved. What seems special to me, especially important, is this topic of child restraint. However, what kind of messages we send to citizens if from the highest state places the institutions are sent messages that the woman remains in the house and is engaged in raising. Then it's logical that when a divorce comes to men's opinion most often, I won't pay for her support. In most consciousness, therefore, it is paid to the ex-wife rather than to the children. It is therefore important to raise adults in this regard, therefore, one, one, active education and children as well as adults for active participation and changes in society. And it's important, this seems particularly important to me, which is what the report deals with, that it does not look at the child as a victim, that it wants to raise him as a citizen, who is interested, and then it will be easier for him to be in society later to ask the state to protect him, to serve him, to be a citizen rather than a subject. That's why it seems to me, since we've adopted that national children's programme, about children's rights, to introduce this so-called education at school. And indeed, here's to conclude, all the praises of the attorney-general herself, her team, that we are all fighting together that these weak rights, the rights of the weak, the rights of the children are not really weak rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10406	Thank you. Now he has the word of Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Ms. Ruza Tomasic's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10407	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Attorney General. It is good that we have a lawyer, i.e. the Ombudsman for children, that is, to discuss the Ombudsman's report for children, however, as a colleague of the law, Pero Kovacevic has already said we have a lot of different state services in ministries and institutions that actually duplicate each other and all do the same, in fact a little bit is done, at least as far as children are concerned. They're all dealing with our kids, and unfortunately only when they're having problems with those kids. Like. abuse, neglect, drugs, etc. In modern times, so-called The instant life where we live at an accelerated pace should stop and think about where this is going and what consequences it leaves for our children. Children need much more attention especially in our families and homes. In this sense, the HSP Club is preparing a project "Let's read with the children" which we will soon refer to in the parliamentary procedure. Namely, it's a familiar problem. That today's children are less and less reading books, and even comic books, are becoming more and more attached to television and computer, and we know how much violence is in movies and computer games. Studies in America have shown girls aged 11 to 12 reading about 5 hours a week while boys read 3.9 hours a week. In addition, girls aged 15 and 16 read 4 and a half hours a week while boys of the same age read 2.3 hours a week. When children were asked where they preferred to read 65% of them answered: “In bed”. According to these polls in America, they launched a similar project called “Read Across America” in which athletes, actors, singers and politicians hired. And in Canada, they went even further, so high schools and primary schools made tables and sent them to their parents so that every night when a parent reads to their children, he puts them in that table and when a certain number of hours are collected, the family receives a book. In this way, the family would get a little closer and realize that it can be fun without television and computers and that it does not invest too much faith that the state can solve problems that come from the crisis in the family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10408	Thank you very much. Now the word has Mrs. Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10409	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Attorney-General, we are certainly talking about one issue today, and it is evident from the fact that this topic is special because I am particularly pleased that there is no replica, correction of the incorrect allegations and violation of the Rules of Procedure. We must certainly talk about this subject with one responsibility because it is about children, about the wealth of all the peoples and the Croatian state. A colleague began, colored her argument with her color. She's right about that, but I hope when we talk about kids we can't talk party. We need to talk about children and beyond the party frameworks because I repeat again these are Croatian good and Croatian future even though our children are not our inventory. Our children are our wealth. I will, and don't be mad at my debate. I'm sure to mention something I said before last year when I was talking about Family Law. That's when we spoke in Family Law, and that's what bothered me in your report, and it's personal data. Unfortunately, there are no more state secrets in Croatia. It's been proven. No more official secrets, and that's proved to be true. No more military secrets, and that's proved to be true. No more secret personal data, but I hope you'll do something to protect the children in the way they protected the children of the country all over the world. One time after I met you in town, I was talking to you, and I gave you my position on it, so I'm going to say it now. There are several pages in your report which you have dedicated to the case in Kaštel and from page 16, one page, two, three, four, five, six, seven full pages. That case certainly deserved more, but please don't mention names. You have no right to do that. Here you nicely said the Roman number is 9 girls and you put the girl's name back on. Here you put a Roman number 8 and a solution to the rights of children through the media and a case of a young boy acting on television the way he acted. He's been warned. Don't put it on, you don't have the right to report as a lawyer to mention children's names. And that's what the World Declaration and Action Plan from the World Summit on Children's Convention on the Rights of the Child UNICEF requires, and in your own report you wrote that you co-operate with UNICEF and international organisations. I congratulate you on that and do it further so I'll quote you here. On page 70, I think it's the 40th, yes. Article 40 of the Declaration, paragraph 8: “The child’s privacy is respected”. I'd put a dot there. If there is no such thing in the Law of Advocates, then I would certainly, as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, complete this Act or your regulation and hope to accept this declaration and this article. I repeat the child's privacy is respected. It's easy for the superiors to be great. It's easy for the superiors to be human. That's what happened, Madam Attorney, I'm not calling you... in the Croatian Parliament and in the Croatian Government when the first people of this country, I will also call them the President of the State Mr Mesic and the President of the Government Mr Racan is photographed with, photographed with the girls concerned. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] If they wanted to solve the case, then they could have done it without the photos. If she wanted elementary school and principals and foster parents to do something for you, for those children from Bjelovar to Kutina then please without a name. It's easy to talk about your children's grief, other people's children, but it's not about your children. I don't know how I would behave like a mother if my main theme in the media was mine, don't give me my baby. That's what the kid lost, those kids lost their parents. Children such as these are unfortunately there are more in the whole world of the sick and so there are more in Croatia. Don't mention any more names. Don't make me charge you before the International Organization in Strasbourg. Not you, but everyone in the name of the Croatian government, from the Croatian institutions named the problem of one child or with his help or for his help. ... That's political points. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] I told Marco, it's easy to talk about someone else's fate, not your own children. So I support your debate, I support you because you came to this, your great responsibility with one with love. I have discussed this with you and I will especially give you as a representative or as a person if you expect or think that I can help you, and so can we representatives in the Croatian Parliament if you give us a report. You can't just do that. We're all in charge of children to make them feel better than they are today. Every morning at 8.30 we hear children singing “Beautiful Our Croatia”, but these children in our beautiful Croatia must be protected from conception, kindergarten, elementary schools, secondary schools until they grow up. You mentioned in, I won't repeat myself in your report you mentioned several of these cases, please don't use your name anymore. The more we have to take care of, the more you mention the abused children, the retarded children, or the disabled, the homes we certainly care about, the old and the homes where our old ones live, but please, we have to take care of both that and the way children live in those homes, so recently there was one case where a lady told us where three children died that she wasn't responsible. Who's responsible? Then the children of the settlers. You mentioned them, children in areas of special state concern. You saw a report from Grazac the other day, where people got a third solution to the dissection. I'm sure that little girl sitting on the couch is paying for it. She's in a way, not protected by her human rights. All children in this world and Croatian children have the right to a beautiful childhood, but we have to make that childhood, always say the way you experience childhood, so you will be in the future. That's how you're gonna be a man. And let's make sure they don't have any more of this happening in our country. Children's pornography. Kids, child trafficking, especially girls, underage girls. You know yourself that there is, that we are quite one country that, after the war, is safe where crime has spread more than it has ever been before. Take care of them and you'll see how much trouble they have. Children of the dead Croatian defenders. They, not enough material resources provided by this Croatian state, need the same to feel the safety of this country, and also from you, although some are already adults, and there are other children who were missing during the Homeland War or aggression on the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina without one parent but without both parents. They were and lived in a complete family if the child had no family it was also a bird flying itself out of its nest. This is where we talked about the kids. I'm sure colleagues and colleagues talked about this laundry in marriage. The kids must be the most they can handle. I'm often surprised, and I've lived out there for a long time according to all of this are other relationships and it depends on all of this and on the material means if you want. But I think it depends more on the responsibility of humanity to this problem. It's inconceivable for me that the court can make a decision where it forbids children to see their father or children to see their mother. No matter who the father or who the mother is, the child must meet at any age with his father as he is. But we have to protect him. But we have to give him the same opportunity to see his father or to see his mother. You are faced or we are all faced with many of these problems and we hope that we will be together and that your future report will be I hope richer with results, and less with the problems you all face every day. Here's hoping you didn't take my criticism as a criticism, but please accept it on good faith and don't mention the names again because the children have the right to privacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10410	Thank you. He has the word now, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10411	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are talking about violence and perhaps the biggest topic of the entire age of time is determined by the culture of violence. And besides, we live in a world where there's as much violence as you want. The normal thing is that we're kind of the most sensitive when violence is committed against children, but it's been mentioned more than once here, so I've mentioned some of our people's wisdom in the supposed wisdom, but the beatings from heaven come out, who fights is loved, the children need to be beaten for their good. And so on. That's how I mentioned it in order to realize, after all, that we live in a society that is defined by tradition, which sometimes implies that violence is pedagogical, so I say justifiably, when someone punches a diet in the head. And so on. Because it's his good cause, because he'll understand faster what he can't do. And norms of what's laughing and what's not to be imposed by some kind of home runboy, a Tarzanoid guy, and so on, who's the strongest in his family. And usually outside when the threshold crosses, a tiny anonymous man who drowns in mass is also overloaded. The normal thing, therefore, that in such an ambience that we must be aware of, we do not have to constantly beat ourselves that we are very cultural, civilized, and so on, because it refutes both the figures and those facts in our education of the education structure of our society. So we need to be aware of the first environment we live in. And then, as a Parliament, take responsibility as the law-making body, in which the citizens will sort of be treated and the state is careful not to break them. If they were now referred to the old Incas, for example, for the activities of advocacy of children, it was not children who responded, but their parents. And at the very least, I say that in front of the laws of the day, that kind of civilization, and the community and community were responsible. So you had the punishment now not to commit some drastic punishment, which they predicted from a place where the perpetrator of a terrible crime was leveled with the earth. So, what I'm saying is, I just want to say maybe one parabola to say that the community is sometimes responsible for individual actions. And not just him, because it's important what ambience we create in society is a legislative environment. Which will then allow her to live in one way or another. We are also witnessing that even children become murderers of their own fathers to protect their mother. It's a different topic. But it's about the kids. So when society failed, those powerless children pretend even murderers to protect their mother and free themselves from domestic terrorists. In these cases, therefore, surely society has failed the community in general and those who do not report those who see and close their eyes and who hear and close their ears. And in the end, the whole system that should intervene and protect the child from him becoming neither a murderer nor anything else. That he doesn't take that ultimate to say that that's not the way it's going to be done to protect himself. Besides, I'd say kids don't have to fight and violence against them. You see this dream of success that is scattered and in an ansche society that is no news, in the time in which we live. Here's a leader who's got a lot of athletes, coaches, and also celebrities, but really, when a kid gets forced, I talk about those parents who force children. Let's just say it has to be that it has to work. Whether he plays the violin, the piano, or he makes him realize his parents' dream of being a famous athlete, a violinist. Or to be a celebrity, I don't know, science and so on. There's often violence against that too, to say by the will of that child, who's being coerced, reports that he's engaged in losing his childhood to spend most of his day where he doesn't want to do it the way he doesn't want to. So what I'm trying to say is that this terror of fighting for success that usually terrors parents, and not the ambitions of parents. So there's a kind of terror and violence that we don't often pay attention to. Because he says he wants his kid to want a famous tennis player, so he's forcing him to swim, or what I know. The child fails, but he is often approached by ruined people who, sometimes on TV, we can watch some shows that were not children’s, are not socialized. Some end up in a drugstore, too. So this need to escape from the anonymity of escape from the lonely crowd. When parents, through their children, want to realize their unfulfilled ambitions, are also in a Hollywoodd version of life that these days and with us is so terriblely imposed with a single rush on how to create a star from someone. You're actually able to create one of the victims from a child. This ideal of Shirley Temple, Judy Garland what I know of the little successful movie stars and other miracles that have gripped us and we really seem to be transformed into a society where this kind of subtle violence that is no news can appear. Here is often mentioned the worst form and the most drastic form of violence that is sexual violence against children. I'm personally on the point of equating such terrorists, the domestics being the father, it was about the father of a child, or I don't know any other family member. I'm up for it to equalize with murder. Well, that's what children like that have taken their lives in a certain way. Really. They're so disabled after that that you can say they don't even live anymore. What it means to you is a life that has no quality. Life isn't just about vegitating, so we all know that a human being is just a potential that can and doesn't have to be realized, we're all born but we don't have to become people. Many become inhuman dalkeo below the level of animals that live according to nature and so on. That's not what I'm talking about. A man is the only creature that is prone to this kind of violence that we are now talking about here. It's the only living thing. Other living things don't do it they do it from some, we can call it violence when an animal attacks an animal, but it's not about this kind of thing that we're not talking about enjoying violence and so on, this case in Belgium, etc. which is in the papers these days, so it really drives us to say we as legislators, it's such a terrible form of violence that we're looking for the most drastic punishments. So why not a life sentence, there's no life imprisonment. I'm an opponent of the death penalty, but most drastically, even when I read in the paper that some rapist of a child in a family got five or six years I'm creeping myself out. The least guaranteed punishment is three years, I think that's a little bit. I'd put the least guaranteed sentence for 15 years and then move on so let's go to jail, there's only another type of rape there. I want to say one more thing. This is where she was mentioned, not to mention the names of the girls now so I wouldn't. But really, the media also sometimes needs to take responsibility not to make everything a spectacle, a sensation, not to make Hollywood out of everything in Hollywood quotes "Hollywood" because they create madness, create something worse. So they don't use someone else's tragedy to have 3% more viewers and then to be more expensive commercials on their TV network. I think it's really a kind of responsibility that needs to become theirs, but it's also ours to punish that kind of behavior. We are politicians and I think that taking advantage of children for political purposes is also one of the worst forms of child exploitation and there should be, it is forbidden under our laws but we need to be sensitive very much to it. Fortunately the war has passed, the children of the victims of the war will not talk about it, the world is nothing foreign and that children are warriors and therefore themselves used for war purposes. And indeed, love was mentioned, love is the foundation of everything, it is no secret, when we talk about children and when we talk about demographic restoration and problems in Croatia about demographic restoration. Let us be aware children are not born to the state or political parties or any kind of politics, born to those people who need to love them, so they are born to those who are in love and we make sure that those children born do not fall into an ambience in which their life will be a tragedy. So not everyone is capable of having a child, and we have to create conditions that more children have that normal environment. All right, here's the deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10412	I thank Mr. Representative. Does Mrs. Attorney General want to take the word for it at the end of the day? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2003. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2003 is accepted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 101 votes, it's a unanimous conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10415	Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. As the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality is evident in a very short period of 2003, meaning from 1.10 to 31.12.2003. Although it is visible, I would like to point out here in particular that at the time after the appointment it was not secured from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia no funds for the work of the Advocate's Office, no space was secured and no employees until the end of the year. It is, of course, a new institution provided for by a new law so that it is understandable, but it should also be taken into account that given the independence of the Ombudsman's office she was not actually within any ministry or government, therefore she had no logistics. Thus, in those three months, this was reduced to more or less the personal work of the Ombudsman by having to take particular care of the regulations of the Republic of Croatia relating to financial operations, and this actually ended in such a way that the funds were obtained, the space was secured, the choice was actually made for the deputy in terms of these preparatory actions so that, in my assessment, it was only possible in such a short period and achieved. In particular, I would like to emphasise that the Law on Gender Equality is an important anti-discrimination law which defines and regulates the way to protect against discrimination based on sex, but also the creation of equal opportunities for women and men. Therefore, the Advocate General for Gender Equality as a mechanism provided for in Chapter IX. The law on gender equality called law enforcement insurance is actually just one body that monitors the implementation of this law, but also all other laws dealing with gender equality issues. However, it is for all of us in this country to implement the principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and to apply this law because, like the Parliament, you are, as a legislative body, already at this session, many laws, very important laws, the Media Act, but some others are directly related to gender equality and gender equality promotion, but it is not, of course, the only law. So we have to take care of that, all of us. I'll just have illustrations to try to show what's going to be part of the job, but only one small part of the lawyer's job for gender equality. This is about Article 11. The Law on Gender Equality which states: "State bodies, legal persons with public authority, legal persons in the majority of the state or units of local and regional (regional) self-government are obliged to apply specific measures and to adopt action plans to promote and establish gender equality." It's been a year since this law came into force. Obviously, such legal persons can be numbered and numbered hundreds, perhaps thousands, and implementation of those provisions will be followed by the Law of the Advocates for Gender Equality. That's one segment. So it could be done that it was necessary to create preconditions and I think that they were basically created in this short period and I ask you to accept this report and I am willing to answer all questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10416	I thank the Attorney General for gender equality. Does a government official want to take a word for it? He's gone. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol on behalf of the SDP club. Is it committees? Excuse me. On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Ms Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10417	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed it as an interested working body of the Assembly at its 4th session of 20 April. The debate found that it was very important that the problem was recognised and that discrimination was found on this basis, but there are also mechanisms of protection. Since it is a very wide and layered area in the protection of human rights, monitoring of this problem should be organised to lower levels, counties, cities, municipalities, or local self-government. The debate highlighted the need for education and proposed that the newly established Government of the Republic of Croatia's Office for Gender Equality be engaged in promoting gender equality, as provided for by the Law on Gender Equality, and that cooperation with the Advocate for Gender Equality is desirable. It has been pointed out that the Primorje-Gorski County has achieved significant results so far. The question has also been asked whether, since citizens are more likely to decide to initiate the procedure themselves, since it is delicate matters, there are mechanisms to protect against discrimination on this basis. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2003 with the observations and proposals presented in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10418	Thank you very much. Any of the other boards? The Committee on Gender Equality, Mrs. Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10419	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Gender Equality discussed the 2003 report on the work of the Ombudsman on Gender Equality. In the opening presentation of the Advocate General for Gender Equality, he met all members and members of the Committee with the activities and measures taken to establish the Office of the Advocates. The period during which the report applies, therefore, in 3 months last year, it is observed that the activities of the Ombudsman have been difficult. In fact, it began its work after its appointment without financial resources and without the secured business space for work. And due to the lack of material resources, it was not possible to team up with the Advocate's Office during that period. In such difficult circumstances, the Ombudsman focused her activities on the media promotion of the Law on Gender Equality, and it was not possible to comply with Article 21(2). Gender equality laws. Since July of last year, the Law on Gender Equality has prescribed the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt a regulation establishing the Office for Gender Equality within 60 days of the date of entry into force of the Law. But the office was established this year by a regulation adopted by the government on February 3rd, so this year. One of the tasks of the Gender Equality Office is to coordinate all activities aimed at establishing gender equality, including providing professional assistance in the application and implementation of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law. These are all the reasons why the Ombudsman’s actions have been disabled in the past of the time to which the report relates. There was an opinion which, independently of all the objective difficulties faced by the Ombudsman, could and should have been done more. It was noted in the debate that several parties informally addressed the Ombudsman for assistance because of domestic violence and sexual harassment at the workplace. In these cases, other than advisory assistance, it was not possible to initiate the procedure because the parties opposed it. In fact, the fear of either husband or any other bully, the fear of losing his job and what's most important, I would say, the misunderstanding and the condemnation of the environment are the reasons why they contribute to giving up the request to initiate the procedure. In doing so, as a positive isolated case of ballerina, HNK employees who were closely followed by the media, and the lawyer launched the procedure and there was a reaction from the party of HNK directors in Zagreb. Respecting all the difficulties facing the Ombudsman, the Committee gave her full support in her further work, and after a debate with 7 votes for and 1 against the Croatian Parliament is proposing to reach a conclusion on the adoption of the 2003 Ombudsman's 2003 report on gender equality work.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10420	Thank you very much. Is it on behalf of the club, if you like, Mrs. Gordana Sobol, on behalf of the SDP Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10421	I will. Thank you. So, on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP, I would like to begin by saying that we will support the Attorney General's Report on Gender Equality and so on and for such a short period of time for which this report was done, so for the last 3 months of last year. We respect this and welcome its persistent efforts and has only recently met the basic working conditions, as stated in its Report. So, in a way, we'd say she didn't give up. According to Article 3, as stated in the Report, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with freedom, equality, national equality, peace, social justice, respect for human rights, inviolability of ownership, preservation of nature and human environment, rule of law and democratic multilateral gender equality is the highest value of constitutional order and the basis for interpreting the Constitution. This means that all provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which relate to fundamental rights and freedoms, should be interpreted in the context of gender equality, therefore as the basis for interpreting the Constitution. With the appointment of the Advocate General for Gender Equality and the establishment of this year's Office for Gender Equality of the Government of Croatia, our country has circled the establishment of institutional mechanisms for the promotion and protection of gender equality at the level of the state which practically started in 2000 with the introduction of provisions on gender equality in the Constitution. It should be noted that before that, we also had the Committee on Gender Equality of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but this provision on gender equality, as one of the greatest values of our country's constitutionals, has allowed further, and the Government that was in that period in Croatia has had enough political will to comply with this and a number of legislations, namely to adopt a number of new, brand-new legislations, such as the Law on Gender Equality, but I would also say the Law on the Rights of Same-Sex Communities, a special Law on Protection against Family Violence and a series of other legislations, which have been amended in the meantime. In this way, our country has also begun to implement a contribution from Croatian legislation with EU regulations because the area of equal opportunities for women and men is part of the signed Stabilisation and Association Agreement. On behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to say that we are particularly emphasising this word that our country has begun, therefore, to coordinate and adapt its system to the European Union system. In fact, we believe that it will only prove to me how well it was that last year, when the Law on Gender Equality was passed, the Parliament, last assembly of the Parliament, seemed unanimously to have had the strength to introduce the amendment through the draft law of the Advocate General's Institute for Gender Equality. And with that, with that institute, we actually broke out into the very top of the countries in our immediate vicinity, but I would say a further environment when it comes to state mechanisms for the protection and promotion of gender equality. So, what makes us think that, that's what we think. Namely, in chapter 9. The Law on Gender Equality, which refers to ensuring the implementation of the law, has therefore established a special body, a lawyer, a lawyer for gender equality, where we believe it is very important that the Ombudsman, i.e. the Ombudsman, has the right to submit a proposal for the initiation of the procedure, an assessment of the establishment of the law, i.e. the constitutionality and legality of other regulations, if it considers that the principle of gender equality has been violated. This is one of the very important provisions of the law, one of the very important tasks and powers of the lawyer for gender equality. and we at the SDP Club believe that the importance of this provision, i.e. the importance of the Ombudsman's Institute for Gender Equality, will only be seen in the next term. Of course, we also expect that, since a short time ago, the Office for Gender Equality, will also contribute to improving the situation, i.e. to the achievement of that principle, which is written about achieving equal opportunities for women and men in our society. In her opening part, the lawyer herself said a few sentences in this particular area. In the club of MPs, we also remind ourselves that we will have very soon, i.e. we have already won the benches and the Media Act, that we will have a debate on the Law on Political Parties, that we will have the most likely debate on the laws, the laws that treat the elections, for example, for local representative bodies, which for the local elections next year. And we also expect that, as representatives of this House, we will show in particular that we really know what the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality mean in the debates on these laws. Yesterday, a meeting was held in this House, and I am sorry that here there were no longer present at the meeting, but very interesting precisely on the issue of gender equality and gender treatment in Croatia. At that time, it was said, and on behalf of the SDP Club, I think I can confirm that there are three huge areas where gender equality, i.e. equal opportunities for men and women, are absolutely not realized. I single out these three in particular, it's a huge area of the media, it's an area of the labour market, it's an area of policy, it's an area of opportunity, equal opportunities for co-decision, so in those places where the most important decisions are made for both men and women. I have brought with me only one part of the media inscriptions on gender equality issues, and it is precisely these areas that I have just said, these are the media, the labour market and politics, a series of research showing that gender inequality, or discrimination of one sex in this case, is clearly visible, and in one part is no longer even covered up. And finally, let me still say that on behalf of the Club only when I look at us here as parliamentary representatives and MPs, and when we talk about the problem of women's representation in political decision-making, we can boast about other countries that, say, we have about 20% of women in Parliament, we haven't fallen too much compared to 2000. And in a sense, it could be some kind of progress or at least the maintenance of what we've achieved since the year 2000 here. But since the Ombudsman mentioned the question of delegations, the composition of committees, committees, bodies and the like, I do not know if you have read the report of the Croatian Parliament in which she speaks, it is the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament, and here you are finally numbered all parliamentary committees and names and names of all representatives and representatives on those committees. I'll end up with a few details. Without even one member, so without a single parliamentary representative, we have one parliamentary committee, and that is the Committee on National Security and Internal Policy. On seven committees, and I remind you that the boards have between 13 and 15 members plus outsiders. We have only one member in seven committees, including the Committees on Local Self-Government, Legislatives, Foreign Policy, the Economy, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links, the Committee on War Veterans, and the Committee on Agriculture. We only have two members on five committees, and these are committees, Committee on the Constitution, Committee on Tourism, Committee on Justice, Committee on Spatial Planning, Committee on Selection and Designation. And don't let me count on it. We have three members on four committees, four members on three committees, five members on two committees, 6 members on one committee, but that committee has 27 members. And at the end of the eight members we have in one committee and here we are in the Parliament in the majority, it is the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. My colleagues and colleagues and the Committee on Gender Equality whose president I am do not object, we do not have a majority in relation to you men. In conclusion, I hope that this information that we can imagine is because it is very clear what areas in life and work and this Parliament are to which it is, I would dare say the active role of our parliamentary deputies have been disabled. Finally, I would like to read from last year's report in the national programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union, the government then cited as its political specifics. By promoting the principle of gender equality, the Government of the Republic of Croatia seeks to strengthen equality between women and men in all areas of human action, raise awareness of the need for action to achieve full equality between women and men. The past government was in a position along with the Parliament's previous call to adopt a series of legislative proposals. The new Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for the 2003-2007 term since December of last year stands out. One of the government's most important tasks is to promote the improvement of women's social status through politics, gender equality, employment, wages, entrepreneurial activities and participation in political and public life. From what I've put out so far, the new government is only in a position to make this happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10422	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, respected representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10423	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed attorneys, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the lawyer's work on gender equality in 2003. By concluding a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the Republic of Croatia has taken over the obligation of harmonisation and overall legislation with European Union regulations, thus regulating the issue of gender equality. This issue also includes a series of laws, from the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on Protection against Family Violence, from Labour to Asylum Law and those laws that we have heard about before us. Here we are talking about a report that refers to a short period of all three months of 1. 10 to 31. 12 2003. However, the report shows that no conditions have been met. At first, without financial resources, without the business space which had recently been resolved, I think it was only since 1 April, without the conditions for teaming together, and even there were problems with forming and authorising deputies because it was difficult to find in the pre-election time of the candidates reported most of them did not meet the conditions. It is a pity that, in the public capacity and in part, the Ombudsman is not recognized, which we can also explain to the underdeveloped consciousness on gender equality issues and lack of sensitivity in the public. We know that women are harder to get jobs from men, employers tend to reject women who have children if for the first time they are looking for employment, often wondering if they are married, whether they have children, whether they intend to have children, and for the same job they are less paid than men or even have fewer pensions. We've been dealing with women lately. The report shows that there was not a single law to initiate the formal procedure because, of course, it should be given consent to initiate it. The solution was only with the attorney's advice. Obviously, the problem hasn't been recognized yet. All of this further justifies the existence of a lawyer for gender equality. In view of the short period of 3 months covered by the report, respecting objective problems in the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality, the Croatian Democratic Community Club has adopted a report on the work of the Ombudsman, hoping that the next report will provide a picture of the state of gender equality with statistical data and show concrete cases of violations of discrimination to be addressed by institutional mechanisms but of course with the help of the Government Office for Gender Equality. And finally, I'm really sorry, we hesitated whether to accept only knowledge or accept a report like this as a whole that, given the circumstances that the Ombudsman was doing, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will accept this report. We are also very sorry that all of these examples discussed by the chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality are not listed in the report that the Ombudsman could nevertheless state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10424	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSLS and DC Club, the respected representative, Vice-President of the House, Mrs Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10425	Thank you very much, Mr. President, we could indeed ask the point of discussing the report for just a few months, but that is also true for the previous debate because it is the period of October, November and December of last year. And I think we can agree that, in the past few years, certain progress has indeed been made, that certain legal changes have been made, and even the inclusion of gender equality in the Constitution. And one of the motions, i.e. the Proposer of such a change of the Constitution, was our representative from the HSLS. However, the fact that at the meeting on 1 October at the end of the term of office of the last government, the lawyer for gender equality has just been appointed, however, speaks of the fact that too much time has been lost. And the Law on Gender Equality entered into force 22. 7. a Office established by the Government's regulation, only, this Government, 3. 2. In 2004. So we can really ask how much will or strength we had to take seriously the issue of gender equality. In view of the fact that the financial resources for the work and establishment of the Office of Gender Equality Advocates were not provided for in the State budget for 2003, they were granted from the current stock of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2003. And what's interesting arrived at the jury's budget only in November 2003, so it could only take a month for them to work with financial support. Due to the lack of territorial and financial resources throughout the period covered by this Report, other than the Ombudsman for Gender Equality, there were no permanent employees of officials and subsistence staff, and yet it seems to me that the majority of the work was actually determined by NGOs and the Ombudsman. In these difficult circumstances, the Ombudsman directed his activities as well as the lawyer from last debate to the media promotion of the law, which is of course necessary to reveal to the public legal opportunities, in order to sensitise the public. So there was a series of round tables, seminars... discussion on gender equality issues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has sought to be under way with legislative changes, judicial practice in matters of sexual discrimination where there is obviously much work to be done and I find it necessary and I find it also a certain education of staff in the field of justice administration on these sensitive issues, and work on school textbooks and many other important issues for the application of the Law on Gender Equality. It's certainly interesting to look at school textbooks, and I think if they were to be evaluated from this angle about gender equality then it's hard for some textbook to get a positive grade. The fact is, therefore, that the report applies to only three months, but in those three months several persons and NGOs have also been addressed for domestic violence and sexual harassment at work for providing expert advice. Apparently, this year's attorney for gender equality is going to have a lot of work to do. And it'll be interesting to see what the report will look like after a full year, so, what next one we'll get. We believe that gender equality would actually be assessed by a positive assessment if the position of a woman changed primarily in the labour market where we know that 51% of women are still unemployed, that they are still wanted in some competitions, regulated by a military obligation that immediately indicates that women in these jobs are not wanted, that they are still asked the usual questions whether they are born, who are going to watch over their children and not just the number of women in politics, because we can certainly boast of the percentage of women in the House of Representatives. Far less at lower local levels, so this is an opportunity and a call for political parties to be improved in local elections and part of it. And in particular, we think that it would be good for this Office with special care to monitor the application of the Family Law. We will support this report, we truly hold that it is three months too short to give a serious assessment, but because of our efforts we will support the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10426	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Ljubica Lalic's esteemed representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10427	I thank Mr. President, Madam Advocate, colleagues and fellow MPs, so here, since I seem to be the last rumor on behalf of the Club, I hope on behalf of both, and from individual debates, I do not want to discuss the need to protect gender equality in the Republic of Croatia because we discussed this when we passed laws. Since this report really refers to only three months, and we are fully presented with the problem faced and the reasons why this report is not more detailed, I think we all have the understanding and the Croatian Peasant Party's Club of Representatives understands the report as it is. We can only conclude that, at the level of legislation, sufficient solutions are given to guarantee equality, but what we are concerned about is the implementation of these legislations. It is a chronic problem in Croatia. It is not a problem to write good laws, it is not a problem to write laws that will declare it, however, the problem is to implement these laws. And precisely for the purpose of implementing these laws, we have established the Office of the Advocate General for Gender Equality and there is nothing left for us but for the Advocate General to wish for success in the current year, and for us as parliamentary representatives and in this House, it is an obligation to create conditions that will indeed enable gender equality, not only for us as Parliament to remain at a certain level of declarativeity. So the Croatian Peasant Party Club supports the prosecutor's report on gender equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10428	Thank you very much, colleague Lalic. No more registered on behalf of the clubs. We're going to a ten-minute debate. Fellow representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10429	Madam Vice President, lawyers for gender equality, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the thing, that is, about this report by the Advocate General for Gender Equality, many here have said that we have made major shifts in legislation as well as in the previous subject, but the laws are one implementation, life, practice is something else, and so here some laws have not functioned in practice. I will use this debate today, I am sorry that there is no one here from the government, but I hope that some of them will read at least a phonogram of this debate today to warn them that there is a problem in the implementation of the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, one of the key laws that we have passed in the past term, one of the laws in which there are for the first time seven safeguards to prevent domestic violence or better put into place to protect victims of domestic violence and one of the most qualitative and valuable measures that we have adopted, which is a safeguard measure to extract abusers from the family. The problem today is the implementation of this law because there are no internal acts to be passed by the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Justice. As far as I am aware, the Ministry of the Interior has brought home internal implementing acts of this law and there are things well-placed, however, here should be brought in some sublegal acts that would primarily regulate institutions in this sphere of health and social care in which a safeguard measure of treatment against alcoholism, drugs or any other kind of addiction and this, therefore, is something that should be done to fully revive the law and adequately protect victims of violence. I think the attorney for gender equality is going to have a lot of work to do. In Croatia gender equality is still very low. We have opened here for the past 4 years in several discussions that we have fully feminized activities in which they work, so even in 90% of women, that these activities are significantly underpaid, that this results in one gender inequality, both in paid employment and later in retirement. I would just mention here the case and position of textile workers in our country that is extremely difficult. So not only is it a very difficult physical job, but it's a job that is extremely underpaid and which is mostly, so the activity in which women work and I have to say that when I was visiting some textile industries, for example, they told me about a problem where women don't protect themselves at all. In particular, there were talks about women who were severely ill with cancer, who were operated, who, for no reason, are returning to the old workplace, for example, to ironing where the weight of a pound was ironed. The standard is raised from 500 to 550 times a day, which means that a woman in such a workplace has no chance of her recovery. On the contrary, that's how her path to, uh, definitely ended. Thus, their rights in that part are absolutely unprotected and no one is concerned with how to protect that part of women who work in such industries. We were also talking about one activity that, which is much better working conditions than the one I'm talking about right now, which is the medical profession in which you're going to see some of their specialization features, so in medicine, it's going to say the reputation and significance of theirs, their specialization that the number of women in surgery specialises is especially, I don't know, cardiovascular surgery or some other very small, and it seems to me that somewhere around 5% is just a woman of surgeons. That's one percent, for example, that's definitely reserved for men only. No one here will convince me with any argument that women are not as capable and quality of doing this job as men do, but unfortunately they have some obstacles and dams that we have to fight to simply end them. The problem is also very big in education. For example, there are some statistics showing that there are three times more girls who are illiterate than men, that we have almost four times as many girls as men, than boys who finish high school. All of this points to the fact that girls at the beginning of school are prevented only because it is considered that under one limited social and economic condition it is much more appropriate for a boy to go to school rather than a girl. It is still more appropriate for her to stay at home because other statistics show us that where girls were given the opportunity to enroll in a certain degree of education, they usually end up in a higher percentage than boys do. So this is just one small segment of what we could talk about that gender inequality exists in Croatia. So this, for the time being, in this very short period in which your office could and has therefore worked, was a small period of time in which I think that many things you could neither show in this report nor view as a lawyer for gender equality, but I really think that we need this office. It is the same subject with, without which, we will not also be true and full members of the European Union if we do not work, because in the European Union gender equality is something that is written in all guidelines and therefore all the documents that the European Union has. Therefore, you will have your hands full and we will all have a lot of work to do in Croatia to truly achieve full gender equality and to liven up what we have written in Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is gender equality. I will once again take this opportunity to say that I am truly saddened by the fact that in the adoption of the Law on maternity leave in this house and by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Article 3 on gender equality was violated because the right to maternity leave after, therefore for the third, after a third child in the length of three years was granted only to mothers and not to fathers. My epiphany is what if a father is left alone if an accident occurs so the mother dies at the birth of a third or fourth child, so for these other children, the father does not have the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave. And that's discrimination. I am sorry that most of this Parliament has participated in such discrimination. It's a beautiful hawla.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10430	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Also reported is counterpart Ingrid Aneticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10431	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Respected lawyers for gender equality. My colleagues and colleagues. It would be a shame if we didn't get this report today, and that's why we need to read it in detail and figure out the messages anyway. Although activity has been contained since the beginning due to inadequate conditions, here it is. It is therefore good to create institutions in future to create certain conditions. However, I also think that even when the funds were passed because of the importance of the institution because of the importance of everything that has been done in the last period, it was still the most important that the law was passed and that the Ombudsman was appointed. Gender equality is something that has been updated especially since 2000. He's been left behind. There's been a major shift in the normative. I'll just mention something that was scandalous in our criminal law until 2000 when a woman was an objective condition of punishment and it was the only way to protect herself if she was molestered in the family, if it was done in front of children. Ail and then the children were protected again, because these children of course should not see the legislator, and until then he was sensitive to children's eyes but not to women's costumes. Thank God those times are behind us. And I say great progress in that normative done. A colleague, Opačić, and a colleague, Sobol, were already mentioned here, also mentioned the law on the prevention of violence, and then the criminal code for the introduction of a special crime. But it's also important that the administration of eight of us were able to do so because the public was well aware of the great merits and female associations. Which has worked tirelessly since the 1990s since the creation of the Croatian state. And they felt that even in those at the beginning of the war, it was always time for democracy and for equality, or finally for truth. Thus, preparing in the field was not an easy condition. Because then women who spoke these rights were almost declared national traitors. However, the law is there, the activity is here at several levels established. It was mentioned here that I don't know which club, so it doesn't matter, it's important to warn. That it will certainly follow with the hope that the next report will also contain all concrete forms of discrimination against gender equality that will eventually take place in the next period. Unfortunately, however, such discrimination from the government itself took place at the beginning of the term of office just by passing a law on maternity leave. According to the European Council directives, maternity leave which is the protection of life, pregnancy, health, women should be distinguished precisely because of pregnancy and childbirth. And parental leave is something else. However, we did so by voting such a law and by the one who raised his hand for it just discrimination. What the Council of Europe Directive says about parental leave, which distinguishes maternity leave from what it is. In order to promote equality of opportunity of equal treatment for men and women, the old agreement is that the right to parenting should be guaranteed by both parents. men and women. And all those from the beginning, from the very act of having a child or the adoption of a child. If we think from the beginning that raising a child is about caring for a child from the earliest age and later only women care, then it's clear that we have a new one back in action, we're talking about one thing and we're doing something else. We have a gender role to play in shared business, both in society and in the family. So women are destined to wife biology is fate to raise children to be in the house. On the other hand, we speak more of a woman's affirmation, we support the declarative participation of women in public life, in politics. But we're making it impossible for her to do that. In view of women living their private lives, they were made impossible to deal with public life in decision-making places just to advance and democratisation the country along with men. Since women or girls, from the earliest age of all honours, in the first place statistics have achieved much better results and before completing their regular schooling ebilo in elementary school either in high school or in college. So where they learn foreign languages along the way, they go to ballet to play piano or violin sink at the end of nowhere. So what is it, they're from alone when everything on their backs has achieved what can be achieved at all. And then, in this social environment that we all verbally advocate, we can't just make old positions the same anymore. And what's fraternizing is that women who are more educated in their profession are more discriminated against. The least discrimination is with non-skilled workers because they carry out similar jobs and are similarly paid for. However, the higher the degree of education, especially with the master's degree, the harder the doctorate to break through just as project holders, as the host of a particular department in colleges. What happened to Croatia's feminisation of certain crafts is that money is somewhere else that male sex has just gone where jobs are better paid. Banks, management and the like. And schools feminized lower courts where wages were less feminized. Therefore, let us not view this as a single advance in the life of gender equality. Yes, of course. And what is of great importance, therefore, is all these rights that are incorporated into our legislation that need to be further improved on how to achieve it. Here's this passport is enough for all of us to imagine from the defense attorney's work report. Where she often has to act as a comforter, because there is no other support. Fear of losing a job and further shagging. How to exercise the right which is guaranteed by law. If there is no economic background if she is not able not only to finance her representation and her defense but she who can exercise her right to go somewhere especially from abusers it is the biggest problem. And that, then, remains the eternal fact that the right guaranteed for the weak is weakly achieved. On the other hand, justice is the fastest to be done on the poor. And when they're in a position to look for something, then that's a fact here's a sad fact for everyone, the systems that it is. Because when we're, I think we can all agree on that, then we should give that one support that exactly the forms of chicanning and by employers, especially women, should be killed rigorously. From the beginning, therefore, it is necessary to create these conditions and ambience really all those who have talked about the way of schooling about the role of women from the beginning, from that first grade elementary school, from that beginner who starts: "Dad has a car", "Mom's in the house", where the child creates this image and perception and women, especially versus women's children where she belongs and roles and otherwise behavior. ... Did you guys say anything? [[You can't hear a hack from a bench.]] Yes, it is. It's good. Too bad we didn't all hear. I'm sure it would be wise, but, well, you'll do it again later. That's why I think the success of the lawyer's gender equality work would be particularly strong in that part, because her part of the job comes down especially when the right is already violated, so how to achieve it is also a significant part of the job. But in that preventive part of it, it is impossible to act if all those who are invited and all institutions are not doing so will not be much use, but then we will find an excuse that perhaps there is a lawyer for gender equality who has not done her job. Therefore, the duty is to all of us, but also to the Ombudsman without any scruples of those institutions that did not give support, which did not act on its warning, is to be shown in the following report. Because I think it's precisely crucial that this institution be affirmed in that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10432	Thank you very much, colleague. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. Frano Matušić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10433	Dear Madam Vice-President, counterpart Antunovic made many incorrect allegations, Marinovic pardoned. First, I will say that the incorrect assumption that this government, the current Croatian government, has passed one discriminatory law. This is completely incorrect, not true because this Law on maternity leave has actually increased rights and can in fact not be about discriminatory law. It is further completely incorrect that someone almost declared someone a national traitor in the early '90s because he advocated certain rights. That's completely incorrect, too. It's true that we've all been threatened together in that fundamental right, the right to live by the aggressive policy of the Yugoarmy not to count them any further. So that's right. It is also unfortunately mentioned very casually and irresponsible that actually men work only in areas where money is, and that women work in all other areas and that those who deal...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10434	My colleague, look at the light.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10435	There's a lot of inaccuracy, but here's what I tried to do, at least one part to correct it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10436	The Rules of Procedure did not provide for the correction of many inaccuracies. Zdenka Babić-Petricevic reported the next to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10437	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Although my colleague has already corrected the incorrect allegations to counterpart Anticevic, who said discrimination took place at the beginning of the government's mandate, which is not true. By passing this law that is often mentioned in this House is not true, and yesterday we spoke of tolerance and tolerance, I do not know what this means tolerability and tolerance...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10438	My colleagues, please correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10439	I'll fix it. It's not true because a woman in that law has the right to choose whether to give birth, whether to stay home, whether to engage in her career. He's right about everything. And I'm going to quote just please "This world is good, we have to fight for it," Hemingway said in his novel "To whom the bell rings," but I'm the only one who adds through family values because the hearth is the axis of the family and I am a hearthist and I have the right to do so, and you are a civilized globalisation lady.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10440	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec can answer that question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10441	... Madam Vice President, with the correction of an incorrect quote, there's still my tile.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10442	I wrote down what I was told. Well, correcting an incorrect quote, that's worse for you. My colleague has no right to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10443	Madam Vice-President, it is quite incorrect that the birth, use of maternity and stay in the house is the fate of a Croatian woman or woman in Croatian society. If by judgment he thinks of the inevitability of obligations or by God on the directive of legal regulation, then it is even more incorrect because also the biological predisposition of women, and also the legal regulations leave a huge choice of each woman's own to decide what she will do, either she will give birth, or she will stay in the house or will use maternity care in whatever form. So it's completely incorrect what she said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10444	Thank you very much. The next item on the agenda, there are no registered ones here, if I recall, the D.A. hasn't expressed her wish before, but you can now if you want. No, I don't. We understand. Okay. ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't see a colleague check in. I'm asking you nicely not to throw me out of my place. The debate is closed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10445	The 2003 report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality was concluded. I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2003 is accepted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 102 votes, the conclusion is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10446	The next item of the agenda is... Because my colleague Zdenka withdrew her application. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The next is – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bulgaria on Social Insurance, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 86 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've accepted an emergency procedure for the adoption of this law. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. There's no application for a hearing. May I conclude? Thank you very much. Some of the information I keep to you is still interesting, which is what we'll start with next week. These are the laws under number 29. - Proposal for a media law, with the Final Bill. So we start with the proposal for a media law, with the final bill. Then 31. – Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Telecommunications Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure. Then law number 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20. These are the draft laws on local and regional (regional) self-government, then the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, the proposal for a law of the same kind is merely different. So, colleagues and colleagues, I'm closing today's work. I'll see you next week on Wednesday. Thank you very much and have a nice weekend. At half past ten.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10447	Final draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia on social security, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 86 The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Madam Secretary of State Vera Babic. Please make your statement about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10448	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs! The government will accept the amendment if it can be corrected, it seems to us a mistake has occurred in writing the amendments. In our opinion, the amendment should read: "The implementation of this law in the area is the ministry responsible for health affairs and the ministry responsible for work." Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10449	I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-23-0.u10450	Thank you very much. Proposer of the amendment with consent. So the amendment was accepted in the amended form as explained by Mrs Babic. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I note that, unanimously with 103 votes, the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bulgaria on Social Security in the text was adopted, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
