ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21836	Good afternoon, distinguished MPs and respected MPs. Uh, a proposal for a decision on, or a list of companies...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21837	A little louder, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21838	The proposal for a decision on a list of companies of particular state interest is also a request from the distinguished representatives and advocates to have in mind when discussing this subject, if it comes to it, is an integral part of the Law on Prevention and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the conduct of public duties and which has adopted this House, and which is then an integral part of what is necessary, the Government should present a proposal for a list of companies considered as companies of particular State interest in which officials of state may be particularly members of the Supervisory Committees. So this is all about the bill and it's all about it. The list of companies is in line with the privatisation strategy that this office was doing, and therefore we are on the side of the government, or on the side of the promoters. So it's a list that has several parts, so first companies, individual companies from the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, then groups of companies are singled out, so all of those companies that have more than one society like Đura Đaković Holding, which are all, so the parts are accounted for in that list, but because the state owns the holding company itself then we, we thought it was enough to do so. The public and state-owned companies, i.e. public and state-owned companies, are individually and then in the same way as with the portfolio, companies in the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund are specifically listed by a group of companies. Here we managed in line with, so one of the main guidelines was the privatisation strategy that was proposed, which is the government's, and the other is, in terms of what the government has already announced will speed up privatisation of companies where the state has up to 25%, and then this remains, meaning what's in the list, it's about what's more than 25% where the state has, therefore, a share greater than 25%. Here's so much for a more detailed explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21839	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the Committee on Legislatives or the Economy want to develop and rebuild? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21840	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! One legal obligation is essentially a good idea, a good legal idea set out in Article 6. Laws, Article 11. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, that officials may not be members of the management and supervisory boards of commercial companies, except for the exceptions of those societies which are of State interest and which are determined by the list of those companies established by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia in this way has been dissolved and become counterproductive. She doesn't make sense anymore. This is a good indicator of how a good legal idea, a legal sense of relativization, divorce, leads to absurdity. Why? Of the three groups of proposed commercial public and other companies, I would refer to this first group of lists of companies of particular national interest. Imagine your colleagues and colleagues that I haven't found one Pliva here and I've checked that the state owns a significant stake in Pliva. There I did not find a list of INA, but that is why I found a pastor who has 23 thousand kuna as the available portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund or Pag Veterinary Station with 10 thousand kuna. Or I could still count it, but I don't want to bother you with it. I couldn't even find Sunny Hvar. Of course you should be in there, I made a mistake on purpose, but there's no reason why there's no INA then. No, there isn't. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] It's on the list.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21841	Don't give a representative who says to suggest, toss, and toss.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21842	So the purpose of the law is to establish companies that are of particular national interest. If companies of special state interest are 10 thousand kunas or 18 thousand kunas, or of 24 thousand kunas and are not in there, say Pliva, which has about 20 to 23% according to my country-owned stock indicators, then the meaning of the entire census loses its purpose. If it is added that the rule of the ruling HDZ coalition is, in particular, that it normally sets its members and its sympathisers in the supervisory boards, and I must stress it because let's say one article that I brought here to show, as the HDZ says, implements the policy of war prey and, in the subtitle, "The HDZ membership today is worth more than professional references" so in the biographies, it states which HDZ committee that belongs and since when. The list of then companies gets quite good sense. So it's quite understandable why there was a Veterinary Station in Pag that has value in the portfolio of 10 thousand 500 kuna in companies that are of particular national interest. Not to bother with these topics and these dilemmas conflict of interest in a formal sense is easy to discover. It is always prescribed and described but conflict of interest beyond formal meaning and it is more important and is always assessed from case to case. This list then suggests that the government of the Republic of Croatia is in conflict with party and public interests. That's why I don't think you can support a list of companies like this. And there's something else I need to say on behalf of the club. I was asked to cut short the debate on such topics in order to make it faster to come to the agenda more important topics such as the conclusion of the International Agreement with the International Monetary Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21843	Thank you very much. That's what the club asked you to cut short? Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We have three corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21844	Mr. President, my colleague, Lecko, is cheating on the public, and he said specifically that INA is not on the list. It's just that my colleague didn't read the material. INA's on the list, you've got public companies company groups and INA under number 209. Therefore, you do not have to deceive the public that something does not exist in the document when it is written down. At 108, you have Sunny Hvar. What are you talking about? Why do you deceive the public? You don't have to, you have everything in the material, you read the material, don't go out unprepared for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21845	Don't throw it away. Dear Representative Kajo Bučan corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21846	It's actually about the same thing. The number 108 and 209 also mentions the Sunshani Hvar and INA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21847	Thank you. And the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21848	Mr. Leco said the following. With this decision, the government and HDZ want to put their members, their sympathisers, on the trading committees on this list. It's simply not true, Mr. President. The government wants to take care of companies with a majority stake or 25.01% and take down those members of the supervisory boards who are incompetent and who are placed only because they belonged to a particular political option.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21849	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21850	Thank you. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs! Although this proposal precedes two or three proposals which have been withdrawn from the procedure before us, with an unusually stingy explanation, there is a new proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish by its decision a list of companies of special state interest. The argument does not show why it is proposed that these capital companies should be declared of particular national interest, there are no criteria for the choice being made and no indication of the state interest. The only thing that is visible is that in these companies, state officials can be members of the supervisory board without being in conflict of interest. If that's the only goal, then this decision is unnecessary. We still remember the pre-election rhetoric when the representatives and ministers were thrown at the trees and stones because they were members of the Supervisory Board even though they acted without a fee. It has been promised that this will not happen under the leadership of the new government. The following promises to the new board of directors and supervisors were appointed if it was to trust the press and journalists, the sons-in-laws, the godmothers of some ministers, and about friends not to speak. It is not important to note that sons-in-laws, brother-in-laws, godfathers, and friends have the right to compensation for working on the board. But obviously that wasn't enough either, and now we have this motion for a decision ahead of us. What is common to all listed companies is that they own the state from 25 to 100%. Is that so, we don't know because the previous lists were significantly different from the present. It was hard to believe the data of the owner or co-owner who did not even know how much the basic capital of the company of the capital whose company is 100% owner, so on the previous lists we had the companies Jadrolinija Rijeka, Capital Fund Zagreb, National wholesaler Zagreb, National newspaper Zagreb, Odješaljači i obavi Zagreb, Plinacro Zagreb, Plovput Split, Restaurant Osijek, IPZ, Termoproject Zagreb etc., etc. which the state is 100% owner and has not listed the underlying capital to know how valuable societies are. Now the data is complete. However, because of all that preceded this proposal, it is hard to believe that all companies in which the state shares more than 25% are covered. From the materials received, there is no evidence of the success of those societies and an even less visible vision of their future. Which consists of a special state interest and through which it will be manifested. It comes from an explanation. Only in setting up members of supervisory committees from the ranks of state officials without being appointed in a conflict of interest. If you believe the newspaper today is 30% of state officials more than during the previous government. This information clearly speaks about the seriousness and credibility of the new government in its promise of reducing and rationalising the state administration. And if, therefore, the decision is aimed at setting up members of the supervisory committees from the ranks of state officials, we wonder what their role is. The logical answer would be: care of state property and control of management and availability. That in practice it's not what ten years of experience say. The appointed members of the Supervisory Board did not keep state ownership, did not report to the owner on the situation in these companies of capital, so that these companies still record the greatest losses, the biggest debt for which payment insurance is recorded mortgages on real estate. These societies usually end in bankruptcy, and mortgage creditors find their claims by taking over property under mortgage. These same members of the supervisory boards were rarely protected by the interests of various stakeholders and stakeholders, while companies failed. Let's just remember the state audit reports on the revision of conversion and privatisation carried out. So as the proponent in the explanation says, the government's goal is to make a greater than 25% stake in all societies. The impact through the supervisory boards of these societies is better prepared for the upcoming privatisation, and we wonder, in the light of whether the continuation of privatisation by the prescription of half the 1990s is possible. The continuation of such privatisation does not want those 450 thousand workers who lost their jobs in the revision of the privateised enterprises, and neither do those who are fortunate nor work today. Thank you very much. It's never happened again. Whether this decision means that even the current government, the government continues to worry about state property as governments have done since the 1990s. Since the performance of the business is not visible from the materials delivered, we can judge it on the basis of experiences in our own counties. For example, in my county of Brod-Posavia, an industrialally developed county of a total of 3 companies that are proposed to enter the list of companies of special interest is one thing after a catastrophic privatisation now re-emerges in the state's 100% state-owned state, but is under bankruptcy. A bankruptcy should have been opened long ago, and one was once the backbone of the economic development of the county and after years of collapse last year the negative process was halted but with the new government's policy the collapse continues. So of the 3 companies for which the status of special state interest is proposed, only Djuro Djakovic recorded positive business results last year for the first time in 14 years. For the first time since the number of workers has been reduced from 17 and a half thousand to only 2,000 last year, new employment has been recorded. The recovery was due to the government's policy of both bridge construction, railway development and rail transport, as well as to the employment of special vehicle production capacity. Of course, considerable resources are invested in the preparation for the launch of the production of the precisely specialised programme. Today's government slows down the dynamics of railway development, which for Djuru Djakovic means taking away jobs for which they have prepared themselves, seeking and new adjustment to new programmes, new investments of money that are not available, and that means new stagnation and failure. The D.O.D. gave up the special program. In addition to such a policy, society's status of special state interest is meaningless to the only three companies that have an objectively had some perspective and, in the same way, the situation is new... In the new fashion industry “Confection Nova Gradiška” and “New Gradiška”, the “New Gradiška” are now in the new fashion industry. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The question is what is the purpose and purpose of the status of companies of particular interest and the answer to this question and the workers of Željezara Split. A total of 400. They want to know what their future is? Thanks to the engagement of the then government in 2001 in Željezara, a reconstruction was made so that today, in a technological sense, it is a completely new factory with the most modern facilities and which will be able to be competitive both on the domestic and foreign markets as such. Željezara today works with 30% capacity despite the fact that it has secured the market for full production, which makes up all half of Croatia's total needs. Instead of full consolidation and production creation with full capacity.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21851	My colleague Lalic forgive me, so this subject of discussion is the Law on Change, based on the amendment and addition of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests. List of companies of particular national interest. So it would be really reasonable not to ask through this for a button to discuss financial business and "Djura Djakovica" and "Split Ironworks" and all other companies. That is, therefore, not the subject of this debate and this proposal, this proposal, this decision. So please. Because then, then, we will come to the conclusion that, through the proposal for a decision on the list of companies of particular national interest concerning this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, we will be discussing, on all possible topics of economic policy, various economic operators. [[Mr. President.]] So I politely ask you to limit yourselves to this part as well as to all the other agents who will come later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21852	Well, Mr. President, and I'm sticking to the subject, and I'm explaining to certain capital companies why we're giving state-of-the-art special interest status. The name of the special state interest itself indicates exactly that, that particular concern of the state of capital companies in which the State is co-owner. I am now explaining why we support or do not support this idea because when we bring in a list of companies of special state interest and me as agents and those I represent, they are interested in what comes from this status of state interest. Is this what it has been until now that the state has already been the usual non-economic or negligent of a good master treated these societies and we want to point out that this is not the goal of this list, because this list results in the fact that in these companies capital will be appointed members of supervisory committees that will protect state property, but which will also create business policy or oversee the implementation of business policy. We want to point out the potentials this Croatia has because this one, this Croatia needs re-industrious and cannot forget those companies that are owned by it. That's exactly how I directed my debate. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to continue. Instead of the full consolidation of slow production with full capacity, access is sold for one kuna, taking over existing commitments. This demand for a promise reminds us of a privatisation where 80% of companies failed and workers found themselves on the street. Unlike Željezara Sisak whose story ended so if she ended, Gljezari Split does not need a state partner who would bring new technology because it exists. You don't even need to bring the housing because it exists. only the settlement of existing obligations to be settled from the operation of the ironworks, which means that workers themselves will repay current and future debts. Workers are rightly asked whether they should sell to an bidder whose likely interest is to extract or close production for the purpose of eliminating competition and transforming business spaces into warehouses of foreign goods. In this case, workers lose their jobs and Croatia loses its producers from seem to depend on the conditions dictated by foreign producers, remains the return of debt based on a given guarantee, as well as the burden of taking care of another unemployment contingent. So in order to define companies of particular state interest, the state must have a clear vision of what it will and in what way it will do, in order to make these companies a lever of development and new employment. That's what the concept of a special state interest is all about. It should be the state's interest to create for its citizens conditions for employment and for the growth of the stand rather than to leave society in its possession to itself until bankruptcy. Is it only a special state interest to place members of the Supervisory Boards without clear instructions as to what to do, but also to ask them to be responsible for doing their job? And finally, if the special state interest is going to be the hand of the leader in re-industrious progress, let's extend the list to all those who will be able to realise their stated goal. Resuscitation of abandoned facilities, employment of unemployed, increase of production in the function of reducing imports, and exit of our products to the ino market. Otherwise, if this is just a legal framework for the appointment of members of the supervisory board, until you go into bankruptcy, then the employees and the board of directors tell you to leave us alone because we can do so ourselves without the costs of the arrival and departure of members of the supervisory boards from Zagreb and back. And pay them wages for work which no one can benefit except them. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21853	Thank you. We have a series of corrections of incorrect allegations. Honorable representative Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21854	I'm correcting the lie that Mrs. Lalic told us to put on the monitoring boards of sons-in-laws, brother-in-laws and so on. Kumopve. It is your authority, Mrs. Lalic, that has put certain functions of the wife and ex-wife in the past term. Lovers of what kind of ambassadors, constitutional judges, and not speaking on boards and boards of directors. Therefore, Mrs. Lalic, you read someone's lesson, and in order for you to do so and have the right to do so, you must have other than clean underpants and a clean moral face.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21855	Mr. Glavas, first I give you a warning. Secondly, there is a respected representative of Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21856	Mr. President, the violation of the Rules of Procedure and Articles 209 and 214 by acting in accordance with Article 214. Because there was something else hiding here with insults, and that was righted by what I didn't say. I told you about the appointment if you believe it in newspapers and newspaper writings. It's me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21857	Please, I'm taking the session here. Please shut up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21858	Mr. President, I especially thank you for this intervention because I think about morality that everyone is talking about themselves, and it's a good thing that you reacted in this way, and I ask you, and in the future, that this sort of thing actually ends.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21859	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lalić, I give you a warning because you have reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure you did not provide an article.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21860	I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21861	Don't give me "I am" cheerleaders. I give you my warning because you violated the Rules of Procedure by reporting for breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21862	I thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21863	You don't have a word, you can't talk. You don't have a word. You didn't get clearance.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21864	But I did, I said Article 209 and 214 and I still pointed out.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21865	Nothing is worth it, in 209 is just an institution that is said to be able to report a representative for a breach of the Rules of Procedure when he needs to be given his word, how much he can speak, and that he must specify the article. This does not say anything about Article 214. So that's why you called. And you were warned because the Rules of Procedure had been broken.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21866	You have an article 210.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21867	You didn't get the word please sit down. You can't get on behalf of the club word. There's a order of things. Sir, you're in charge of hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21868	209. 210 and 214. Yesterday in this assembly, a gentleman from the party from which Mrs. Lalić came insulted me with the same words, you did not give notice to this gentleman who treated his dirty underpants and evaluated other people's underpants. And there's his evil, unobstructive media statement put in the headline today to cover up hundreds and hundreds of millions of kunas of Racan's government that were placed in private pockets.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21869	Thank you very much. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next correction to the incorrect allegations is the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21870	Thank you, Mr. President, I would like to correct the incorrect fact-finding quote of distinguished colleague Lalić, who claimed that the government has no criteria for determining the list of front-end companies. This is absolutely incorrect, because the reasons for the decision in question show that the crystal clear criterion is that 25% and more shares in the core capital of companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21871	The next correction by the esteemed representative Zdravko Sočković here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21872	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I would like to correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Lalić, who presented the leader's information the one that is incorrect. And that's that after 13 years, Djuro Djakovic's holding was for the first time a positive business. There was a press conference here in Zagreb, I don't know why in Zagreb, and it was the Colorado circus because 500 thousand kuna holding Đuro Đaković was positive in 2003. It is true that in 2002 he was dealing with the catastrophic loss biggest in the existence of Đura Djakovic 198 million kuna losses from 2002, and holding his own assembly yesterday where there were one of the points, you can check in the National newspaper in a call, where it was said that we had a loss cover for last year holding. Another incorrect allegation when it comes to the configuration of Nova Gradiška there was the director in the context of Mr Branko Penic, a member of the Croatian Democratic Community who was literally dumped after the victory of the coalition from that place. There's another man in their ranks, and beyond that, this new one went bankrupt again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21873	Thank you very much. The next amendment, honourable representative Krunoslav Markovnović, is your choice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21874	... Because the problems are left. [[speaker not enabled]] So I repeat, an incorrect claim is making a great success in restructuring those companies and all the problems others. It is characteristic that the employees of these companies did not recognize it either. It is also incorrect that the appointed members of the former government were simply because they were on the supervisory boards, but because individuals were also on 12 supervisory committees, and at the end of the 4-year term their private capital increased significantly, which was impossible from the prime minister's salaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21875	Thank you. State Secretary Ante Babic, secretary of the Central State Office for Development Strategy. Mr. Pacek, there's no point in the Rules of Procedure that whenever he remembers, someone will rise up on behalf of the club, raise their hands and seek debate on behalf of the club and expose. There's no such thing as a standoff in the Rules of Procedure, and I'm not going to tolerate it. And you can't ask, I won't tolerate it to anyone. The assembly would then turn whenever anyone from any club liked it, he would raise his hand and ask for a word. It's not in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21876	I'd like to...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21877	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor, Commissioner Pacek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21878	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I think you're holding a session entirely...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21879	Leave you gentlemen to object and give me instructions on how to behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21880	I think running a session has completely detached you, and that just proves this case of benching. An insult is allowed, too often a word is taken away, and therefore I ask you on behalf of the Club of the HSS a half-hour break, to determine according to such people as Mr. Glavas and the way you conduct your session.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21881	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 213(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The rules of procedure of strict measures are executive and are not under discussion. I therefore do not approve of you a session of the club, and I ask Secretary of State Ante Babic to take his word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21882	Since you are the Honorable President of the Parliament and....
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21883	Gentlemen, please calm down and don't get to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21884	I just wanted to explain a little bit again and point probably, the course of the debate was heading towards broader topics. This is also the subject of this list is the Law and Amendment of the Law on the Prevention of Interests, and here, as Mrs Lalic spoke of it not being clear what state interest it is, we considered, in fact, the Government considers that one of the main interests is generally in economic business and economic governance both individual and VLADE is owned, and here it is precisely state property that 25% and more in state ownership and we believe that it is then a source of State interest for this list of companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21885	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. ... Did Mrs. Representative pick up the plate in time, please? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's what you say it's on time, isn't it? ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Okay. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Okay. And dubio pro reo. Here you are, Your Honor. I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues, not in magnification, in a fraction of a second, I'm not saying that this applies to you, I can't keep track of this place if someone picks up a tile at one point or on the side. I come into situations that...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21886	Right, Mr. President, it's just not my problem,... my problem is to get it up on time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21887	I'm not saying that to you right now. It's a regular practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21888	Okay. Mr. President, the State Secretary said one inaccuracy when he said this proposal was a list of companies the government considers to be of particular interest, the application of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Mr. Secretary of State, it's the negation of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and the argument later on little, because now there is no time for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21889	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic on behalf of the Croatian PGS Representatives' Club. Mr. Kramarić, leave your negativity deals with you, leave it for your discussion, if you have, and don't throw it away. ... Not you, but Agent Zlatko Kramarić. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then later they object that I do not respond to the forward representatives who are getting something from each other. ... Because you are very, very representative in this regard. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, Comrade Capraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21890	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask you a little bit to allow me to say a few words on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Primorsko-Gorski Alliance. I have one request first. I'd ask Mr. Matusic to check it out before I go into debate, if there's a "Liburnia" on that list so I don't have to fix it, so I know I'm walking, because maybe I didn't see it right. Maybe I didn't see it well, and among other things, I'd just like to talk about one thing, and that's law enforcement. What the Prime Minister said at the outset doesn't stand at all, because that's not how it was brought in. The government had an obligation and that obligation was made by the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and the Government had to deliver that list long ago, long ago, the moment the first deadline expired, and that was February 28th and the Government was due then to come with the list before the Parliament and the Parliament was then to adopt a list of companies of special state interest, because it was a prerequisite that any state official could be on the Supervisory Board of Commercial Companies. The government came with a proposal for two sessions. The parliament didn't discuss them, about these proposals, came from the third session, the next proposal was withdrawn, all that time all those state officials who were on the monitoring committees of February 25th or February 28th, I'm a little bit, but I think j25. February. From February 25th to the amendments and the addition of the law, all these state officials were in conflict of interest. All of them. So, the government has directly obstructed Parliament's decisions, so the law. The government didn't enforce the law. As for this list that is now in front of us, which comes after these new amendments and additions to the laws where the truth government doesn't have any time to bring that list, but here, that list is ahead of us and that list is different. The first list included 185 companies, now 210 companies, and Mr. Antun Palaric, defending changes and additions to the law, said it was no problem to bring a list of 20, 30 companies. The 20 and 30 companies have grown to 210 now in this list. And this list, it's said in an explanation, it's only run by one thing, and that's property. And it's said, all those companies where the state has more than 25% ownership, these companies are of particular national interest. The question, however, is what led to 25% of the ownership. Because in the court register, the underlying capital is completely different from that capital that's shown here. And then who should be trusted? Is that 25% somewhere 40%? Who's he supposed to trust? What kind of list is this? A list that doesn't make any sense at all. Because if in one place, and I think the Trade Court is the place where the real stock is run, that should be relevant and that there should be 25% of them. However, another question arises, what about those shares that are in the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, and those on the list of such companies are very much on this list. Where do they belong? Are they HZMO or not, or are they government property? Which makes sense that the government can name there if it's not hers or let her say it's hers. Because of all that, and also because of the leaks in the list itself and what I asked my colleague to check not for it but simply so that he wouldn't have to correct me afterwards, the question of Liburnia. What about "Liburnia"? There's a state of about 50, on one list more, on one list less so you don't even know how many states there are. The question is, what about "Liburnia," and "Liburnia" isn't like all those little ones where the state has 25% and that 25% is 10 thousand kuna. "Liburnia" is a huge complex, a huge number of hotels where there are 36 and I don't know how many hotels, and it's not on the list. Does that mean the state doesn't even know that "Liburnia" is hers? If it's not hers, then whose is it? Whom will be appointed to the supervisory boards there, and if elected state officials, they are unlawfully appointed. So the state doesn't care about those who are big, and it takes care of some accounting from Slivno, the equal that the entire core capital of that company is 15, 20 thousand kuna. Well, there's also a question and I'd like to go back to what Mr. Palaric said. It's a number of 20, 30 companies. Mr. Antun Palaric, defending the amendments and additions to the law, said it would be 20, 30 companies. I quote him. And I would agree with him anyway, because then he would think that this is the way of treating the Law to prevent conflicts of interest is normal, because that shows the capital of these companies that are involved here. According to the value of the companies listed here, it's 164 billion kuna, and in the first 10 is 145 billion kuna. So 86% of the total value is in the first 10 companies. That means if we stick to that 20 to 30, we would cover 96% of the total value of those companies. Likewise, when looked at by the share of state capital in these companies, it is 154 billion, in the first 10 it is 88%. That means 135 billion. And the question arises who is in the interest of growing that list to 210 companies, which is why the idea of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests is being destroyed to prevent government officials from participating in supervisory committees, and I believe that this is also the proposing, and we all, when we passed that law, had that in mind. It also raises the question of what with those companies of public interest now on the same principle should bring cities, municipalities and counties. What is this example of cities, municipalities and counties? We're going to expand this circle of businesses to all businesses wherever the state has any interest, and the only thing that might be of interest is that we can name someone on the board of directors. I believe that this interest is not a state interest, that this interest is a small and personal interest which has led to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and adopted. That private interest doesn't command social, state or whatever you want to call it. That is why the Croatian People's Party, the Croatian People's Party Club, cannot possibly vote for such a list of companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21891	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Kruno Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21892	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's Mr. Kapraljevic today, but he's the second to mention that the state doesn't lead at all, that the government doesn't take care, doesn't mention large companies. So please make sure they got this last page. As far as accuracy is concerned, the capital data were obtained from the FINE on the basis of the final accounts for 2002. I've never taken this list as a final, and I think this topic will find itself once again probably with supplements where we're all going to help that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21893	On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21894	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, I will say, of course, that we at the club of course support the proposal for this decision, because the proposal for this decision is actually a necessary consequence of the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, by which the rules of conduct are laid down, let's say so, state officials among other things, and in terms of the possibility of their appointment as members of the supervisory boards of commercial societies. Article 11(6) of the regulation provides for an exemption from the basic legal restriction which also allows public officials to be members of the supervisory boards of commercial companies which are of particular national interest, but also in such situations without the right to compensation other than the right to compensation for travel and other costs. In line with the fact that the Croatian Parliament determines the list of companies of special state interest and the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is the core of the decision in question, it should be supported absolutely by the following logic, firstly, that the decision applies to all companies in the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund in which the state has more than a quarter of the stake, i.e. all public and state-owned companies in 25% and more ownership of the state. Since this should also be noted, the privatisation process is not completed as a process. It is logical, therefore, that the representatives of the owner, i.e. the representatives of the state, should be part of the supervisory boards of these companies in order, on the one hand, to better prepare these economic operators for privatisation and, on the other hand, to better prepare the privatisation flows by decisions and by the competent authorities in the desired direction. Accordingly, the decision in question as a proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia should absolutely be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21895	Thank you very much. The government's representative, State Secretary Ante Babic, came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21896	I would just like to point out what Mr. Dear Representative Kapraljevic was saying about the fact that members, or officials and members of the government who were elected were in conflict of interest. I don't think that's entirely true because the law was passed in 2003 and the list was set before. What we were waiting for with this list, we were waiting for the amendments and the addition of the Law because we felt that, in the previous one, the text was defined as limiting this provision in Article 11(6) that it was more than 50%. So, if you look at it, we insisted in the debates, or Mr. MPs insisted in the debate that we neglected the big ones and put too much emphasis on the small ones. It would then turn out that Hrvatski Telekom, which means, in which the state has 49% if it wasn't a state-owned company, means that it can't be classified in any way by the Law so far, too restrictive a provision of the Law, that it can't be included in the list of companies of special state interest, which we thought was wrong. And we believe that HT is certainly one of the companies of particular state interest, so then, while waiting for changes and additions, we have prepared a final list. The list of course changed, and we also saw in Mrs Lalić and Mr Kapraljevic's discussion that they had insight as well as other MPs in previous versions of the list. Of course, as the esteemed Mr. Representative Markovanovic said, it is the current thing, it is changing. The Croatian Privatisation Fund's activity, which was not fully at rest and the privatisation process did not rest and therefore the list of companies, has increased seemingly, but there has been a change of scope. So, before we did, previous versions of the list were 50 percent and more, now 25%, but in these lists, some of the companies went to privatisation through the work of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and were deleted from the list and so changed that list. As regards the underlying capital and the difference between this in the list and the one registered in the Commercial Court, we know that the underlying capital in most companies, especially those older, which are not newly created was expressed in marks, i.e. in foreign currency, and that fact was then respected in the calculation of the value of the capital from the Fund, in the list from the Croatian Privatisation Fund portfolio. As far as other companies are concerned, this list means everything the Croatian Privatisation Fund has in its portfolio, and he has not only those companies that have been transferred exclusively to its management but also contracts with the Fund, the Mirovinski Fund and other funds, he has since last year, so that's the contract from think 2002, 2003. In its portfolio, it has the right to make available other shares owned by other funds. So it's all basically property, so what can be considered social property. As for Mr. Kapaljevic's remarks that Mr. Palaric spoke about 20, 30 companies, Mr. Palaric could not know what the final list would be because Mr. Palaric didn't even do it, so I think it's groundless. So these are the things that I thought should be further clarified in the course of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21897	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21898	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, Why is the Istrian economy more effective than the Croatian average? For example, first in Croatia for intellectual capital, per export per capital only has the coverage of exports, clearly without tourism. According to the gross social product is right behind Zagreb, but here all state, para-state funds are concentrated. After unemployment, it is either in the last place or it has the highest employment rate of 100,000 inhabitants, etc. Well, because in this list, it's hard for you to find a company from the County of Istrian. True, here is mentioned in 136th place "Agrolaguna", but it should be deleted because it bought "Todoric Group", i.e. "Agrokor" for some 40 million kunas, so that they stay here at 163th place of Oilic which is in 80.08 percentage share of the state, but what is most important, it is relatively solid for opportunities and compared to other Croatian shipyards. Then there is Pula Airport, whose core capital is 81 million kuna and as the third company "Brian Riviera", which is founded in a way that is participated by the County of Istria in one third, and in that remaining two-thirds share of the state. The state is importing real estate, and for the first time it can be co-determined from Istria so far it has always been reserved for someone in Vienna, Belgrade, Rome, etc. So this blitz view of 210 companies says that in it Istria is represented with only 3 companies. The oil, the airport in Pula, the airport, as we would say to Brijuni Riviera. Personally, I hope that the oil will not be suddenly privatized. On the side of what the Croatian government's agreement and with the IMF speaks about. Although the next day and as a private shipyard will have to receive subsidies like there is no Mr. Glavas here, subsidies are also received by Fiat. Fiat clearly doesn't get state guarantees, but subsidies do. Why am I saying that? Because next year, the Croatian Privatisation Fund should prepare for the privatisation of Croatian shipyards, and one of the Croatian shipyards is Uljanik. Let me also be interested in that shipyard as a resident of Istria because it does not say by chance that when it sneezes, the whole of Pula is caught cold. That's the first one. Second, the oil is sacred. If you can help him, everyone is welcome, if you can't help him, and that's what I mean by 3. May, Brodosplit, etc., then it is better that no one interferes with these societies because it will help them with the fact that no one interferes with their fate. But once again, no matter what the stand-by arrangement with the International Monetary Fund says, be careful with the privatisation of shipbuilding. Don't get into it, gentlemen. The state invests huge money through subsidies but other countries do. With the money she invested in Croatian shipbuilding or rehabilitation, the state certainly could have opened twice as many jobs as shipbuilding has today, but there is no authority that could raise hands from that shipbuilding because then Croatia would lose its industrial character. Finally, we had a debate here yesterday about Lance. We said, guarantees should not be given to "Lance" because "Lenac" is a private shipyard, and you know what will happen in two or three years, if the shipyards are privatised in the Republic of Croatia and if they run out of state guarantees. It's going to disappear from this space. So, once again, gentlemen, be careful with that. The coastal-goran County has a little more companies of particular interest, I don't know if it should be quoted, the Punat Shipyard, the Omisalj hotels from Krka, the coxar in Bakru, there is the Kino River, the carpenter some from Lovran, the Kartonaž printing station, the Rab veterinary station, and Pag, and so on. All the way there to Jadrolinia. Maybe it's good that it's just so at first sight it's good that it's those on the budget, then it's the safest money, then there's safe wages then it's collective contracts, the ease to strike, etc., however, it's really a question of whether a cinema should be a state, whether a veterinary station should be a state. I think it just doesn't make sense and it needs to be made available to the employees as soon as possible, so if it needs to be clear without compensation. Clear shipbuilding should be a state-owned airport, too, although some economic activity could be opened through some free zones at the same time. Everything needs to be clearly put into development, and why? Because Croatia is currently living above the possibility, nowhere is less done than it is done in these "public enterprises" or state-owned companies, the exception is normally in Croatia our shipyards. The clear privatisation process will also go once again with caution with shipyards do not do so and do not privatise these large public enterprises of the Croatian Forest, Jadrolinija until Croatia's electricity industry, as should not be privatised by banks. To conclude whether we will be discussing the financial statements of these companies the next day, that we know what is going on in these companies, I think it should be our debate and as regards the aforementioned Agrolaguna that needs to be deleted from this list because it was bought from the Todorovic group of Agrokora 7 days ago, I hope that the new owner will respect the union's views, continue to cooperate with the city of Poreč, i.e. continue the original production, in this way will be sincerely accepted. And what's most important is these societies where the government has more than 25% share of the underlying capital. We know that again under this agreement with the IMF or something similar by the end of the year, the Croatian government must sell shares in as many as 800 companies in which it participates in core capital with below 25%. I'm asking myself how these societies, these 210 how many of them are going to pay back here to the pensioners, no way. And it would also be good to stop on this basis to deceive these people, give them bonds because we will not pay these companies back to pensioners, it is finally recognised by the President of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, and before him it was publicly said by Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, and it would be good for the Secretary of State, Mr Babic, to tell us clearly after this speaker whether by selling some of the remaining shares of these 210 companies, Croatia can return to the pensioners what is justified, logically and so on. And it is interesting to conclude that this report left out the company Liburnija hotel from Opatija, and there Mr. Kapraljevic was right, that society is not here, there is, if there is it then it is good but then the question is whether the agreement will then be implemented in public that the company will comply with the Esen holding company in order to unblock the "Croatian Privatisation Fund". If that happens, then on that basis to the value of the property of that society, our pensioners will get nothing but the question of how can this mutual claim be broken through such a form? The state, if I'm not mistaken in this society, has 51%, means the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Mirovinski Fund around 30%. Once again, when these large public companies are on occasion, let us not go into privatisation with them, whether it is about Croatia's electricity industry, Croatian forests, Jadrolinija and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21899	Thank you. Correction of Mrs. Maria Byte's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21900	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Cain's inaccuracy is that he will not repay his debt to the pensioners because he is as aware as we all are to do, to seek solutions about the way and modes of return so that his claim does not stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21901	Thank you. On behalf of the DC HSLS Club, Mr. Representative Frano Piploić, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21902	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The Democratic Centre and HSLS club supports this list, why, because in this list sees protection of state interests, protection of property, protection of workers' rights, can there be any greater guarantee of this protection than the Government, whose duty is to rule and manage. So in this sense we're giving support to this list. In front of us is the list, I have so called it the figurative "210 magnificent" among which 167 companies, 34 public state-owned companies, and 7 public-owned companies and groups of companies. When you take this list and you review this data you can immediately see that these entities on this list are mutually diverse, they are different by size, by type of activity, by number of employees, by financial potential, and clearly by success. What they have in common is that the state owns at least 25%. Every year, in the company of these companies, especially those where regular salaries are, in which the market is secured, this is especially the case when you speak and look at this list from the corner of Slavonia, from the corner of the three county companies, Brodo-Posavina, Vukovar-Srijemska and Požeko-Slavonska, we have 11 companies here, the largest number of them from the area of Vukovar-Srijem County. Clearly, without the help and influence of the state, they will not be able to get out of the problems in which they are, for we all know well that this area was extremely injured in the Homeland War. When you find yourself on a list like this, you immediately think that a part of this reputation, that power, that energy, and the beauty that these larger companies have that some of it will go to you and justifiably hope for a better one. It happens when it's heard that you're on the list of special state interests, especially when you're not actually looked at and brought to the brink of existence for years. I especially say this refers to Slavonia where we in Slavonia and the companies that were on this list for the past government were on the list of special national forgetfulness. Which is a special interest in these societies. This explanation, given at the end of the list, states that the objective of the upcoming privatisation is to influence through the supervisory committees that these societies are better prepared for privatisation. The DC and HSLS club is for privatisation, but it's not for the sale and poverty of companies so they can buy a budget. So far, these companies have had supervisory approvals, but this list does not show what the role of supervisory committees was, for example, at age, in the expansion in the development of these companies, or in the collapse of the companies mentioned. I'd put it this way, what's my supervisory board's role in the downfall of my company? I said at the beginning that the basis of this list is what connects all companies is property, property of the state over these companies, at least 25%. To be owned means to be bound, owned, bound by the owner to be held accountable in connection with the property and all that goes with the property. There's one thing that keeps going, and that's that the state is the worst owner. Why is this thesis getting through? Wasn't the intention of forcing the state as owner to give up ownership as soon as possible to get their hands on it, to force the state to start selling out property. In history, however, we have many examples where the state has proved to be a good master. Therefore, the primary interest in us in DC and HSLS would be that these companies are responsible and domestically treated with property, i.e. ownership, clearly through supervisory committees. And where privatisation turns out to be a better solution, privatisation is a quality preparation so as not to pull tails. As soon as the state puts someone or some company on the list of special state interest, it can mean, of particular national importance, that you are on the list for..., or for sale, for sale, so that the state no longer hurts the head simply wants to get rid of such a company. Or what I want to believe is that the interest of a rich marriage was through the privatisation process and to protect the interests of the state and the citizens themselves. In any case, we see in all of this that it is a state interest to prevent further corporate collapse. All of these companies operate in their micro and macro environment, which are again affected by internal and external factors. Over the past 12 years, all our so far Croatian governments have had to provide external factors, meaning integration processes, the market, development and institutional conditions. The internal factors of companies are clearly affected by objectives and strategies, technology available to the company, size, personnel, product and location, etc. Although these 12, 11 companies are listed from the area of these three counties, from Ilock, Agro Ilock, Iteks from Ilog, Klas from Nova Gradiška, New Fashion Confection from Nova Gradiška, Sloga and MK from Požega, Spačva from Vinkovac, Veterinary Station from Župa, Borovo from Vukovar, Djur Đaković from Slavonski Brod, Sladoran from Župa, Vuk from Vukovar, if I say compare them with these other companies, we will see that these companies are in a much more unfavourable position than others, that their environment is quite different. What can one supervisory committee do if there is no strategy at the level of the Republic of Croatia? For example, how can the Supervisory Board act in its cities of youth, when it is known that they are leaving, and unemployment in these cities is about 30%? How can it affect the lagging behind of the average net salary or, for example, the lack of technological policy that has lagging at national level? What can supervisory committees do in this environment? Where they have a common set of problems, losses, war environment and consequences, a broken infrastructure, an undeveloped market, and this lists work without compensation on supervisory boards. Aren't you expecting too much from the board of supervisors? So we suggest that all those supervisory committees who have been successful and who have been paid before, let us say in Slavonia show us their knowledge, their ability to help us solve these questions. Finally, if we compare the Zagreb County economy with 3 Slavonska County Požeško, Brodsko-Posaviska, Vukovar-Srijemska, we will see that 47% of the processing industry in Croatia is concentrated in this county. So we ask ourselves, what will Slavoni or Lika do? And what can supervisory committees do here except live? And we end up supporting this list. But to make it a list that will link the potential and the mentioned companies with quality state support and make it our contribution to the "Let's Start Croatia" action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21903	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote, Mr. Anton Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21904	I have here several corrections of incorrect allegations. But I'll only hold on to one, because I think my colleague has mixed pears and apples. It's about one basic thing, first I'll say what I'm correcting. I am correcting that this is a list of 210 magnificent, that it is a guarantee of the protection of workers' rights, that success is on the list of 210 companies especially those 11 from Slavonia and Baranja. And as soon as the state puts someone on the list or you're... (the speaker's away from the microphone, it's not hearing well)... or it's kind of an interest to get married richly. All of it, all of it, all of it, is an incorrect allegation. Because it's a list that the government only meets by law. And everything he said has nothing to do with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21905	Thank you very much. There's no replica to the correction. According to Article 207. The Rules of Procedure expired at 11.36 p.m. for registration of 10 minutes. And now on behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21906	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The first thing I have to say here is who first recognized the problem of conflict of interest. Who'd do the other, but the first. And we gave our proposal to the law. And what are we led to now? That this great idea is totally ruined, totally ruined. Why is that? Let's just remember what was in our proposal. We were opposed to state officials being on the supervisory boards of companies owned, or by the overwhelming ownership of the state, or 25%. We've always advocated and it would be smarter because the state officials who, according to the current state of affairs, are disrupting the laws of physics because at the same time at seven, eight boards of directors or supervisory committees, while on the other hand we have magistrates, doctors, highly educated unemployed young people who might be sworn in before this House and I say they're far better responsible in terms of the well-being of such a commercial society, in terms of hiring new people, not that young people go abroad to us at the end of college. Therefore, the situation is such that this is just a continuation of a good idea. And now that we're talking about it, I'd just like to remind you of a few things. The list's running late, so he's six months late. According to Article 11(6), before the last novel of the "de jure" law, state officials were in conflict of interest because the edition of Article 11(6) reads that they could be but in the list of companies designated by the Croatian Parliament. Has that been established? It wasn't established. Therefore, "de jure" even Kapraljevic is right, even Kavljevic is right that they "de jure" were, "defacto" were not because they did not receive cash fees and other things but "de jore" were and that is a fact we cannot escape from. And what are we here for? We have come to have one commission which the commission is to cover up conflicts of interest because it does nothing. It only deals with questionnaires. But as far as these questionnaires are concerned, we've all been filling out these questionnaires, and we've had to put up for our close family, so for our wife, for children, so sons, daughters, but imagine the government doesn't put the family of these companies here. No daughter, no sons, no lawsuits of the public so-called. current companies. Why isn't there? And why are we being given capital data from 2002? Why are we being given this? Why didn't you give it up since 2003 when you did it so long? Why isn't there, say, why isn't there a list of INA's daughters? Have you heard of Hostin d.o.o.? Do you know what capital she has? With 10,000 beds of tourism, with settlements and none. It can only be found by perseverance in the court register and such are daughters, sons, and as they work, we know how they work. Each public company, meaning the current company has such sons and it serves a variety of machinations. Because they don't have control boards, we know they don't have control. And what have we come to? We've come to get something that's not true again, but if we follow things closely, we'll see. For example, says Pag Veterinary Station, the capital of this is d.o.o. 21 thousand, 200 kuna. Well, that's not even three salaries probably employees out there in all of that. All this is saying is that we have to move in this situation from the beginning, but in the way that we law enforcement officials have spoken, we're kicking the officials out of these boards of directors, which is going to be there. Come on, young people, unemployed people who will take much better care of all this and who will not be subject to various political influences and who will also oversee these depraved sons and daughters of various companies. This has led us again to the fact that the public will never be familiar with the way this portfolio works and manages the state's portfolio and I say we learned because we read carefully so let's say that our colleague Ruža found out that nobody knew from Smokvica that, for example, Brna Hro's company in the meantime only 44.74% stakes and before had 90%. So, everything needs to be read carefully, and an analytical approach can come up with a lot of things. So let's not do farces of such important things. Let's get the officials out, let's get the young unemployed to be on behalf of the state, they'll be able to take good care of it, they'll manage the good lord's attention. It is most important and fair because they look at their father who has a pension of thousands of kunas, look at his sister who has no job and will probably never have it if it continues like this. So it's about time we went back to the one that, at that beginning, I agree with that, to the beginning to go back and be like we said, because we're not burdened. Our people aren't on boards and they won't be because we're going to give priority to young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21907	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Željko Krapljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21908	So I'm correcting my colleague, Pera Kovacevic. I don't think he's absolutely right and he can't be. Young people can't be on boards of people who don't have a job experience, people who haven't worked in any company in days, but they can't even understand that they can be a doctor of science that doesn't work. I don't think there's anything wrong with that, either. I am convinced that there are solutions, that there are ways but that the representatives of the supervisory board must be people with good experience and not without some work experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21909	Corrected opinion by Mr. Pera Kovacevic. An attempt to correct an opinion but here it continues to go through this institute to correct an incorrect assumption. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Thank you. We're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. The first is Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21910	Dear Mr. Vice President! How does this decision come about? The proposal for this decision comes by amending the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and now it is necessary to establish a list of companies of particular national interest. The first thing to say about this is that the government is late from the deadline prescribed by law. The government is late and in the accompanying material that is neither present nor sent along with this motion for a decision does not explain the reasons for its delay. Secondly, in this humble text, the government sends a sloppy proposal for a decision. So, gentlemen, you haven't even been able to look at the number of People's Newspapers and correctly transpose it into the motion for a decision, but it has to be done to you by the Legislative Committee and your decision has three sentences. Thirdly, you do not send any accompanying material other than two articles of reasoning and the second article of your argument states that companies of particular state interest are all undertakings in the HFP portfolio in which the state has more than 25% share. So there must be two conditions, that they are in the HFP portfolio and the second that the state has more than 25% in them. And then let's look at that list. Here you have one company under regular number 81, it's some metal equipment from Senj where HFP's portfolio is 0%. However, the state portfolio for this same company will suddenly rise to 63.60%. So give me an explanation now where this government portfolio is being realized if not through HFP, whether through direct state ownership and why exactly in that metal equipment in Senj. You didn't explain anything in this accompanying material, so this decision and this, this proposal for your decision and this whole list is completely unclear and untransparent. Besides, I'd say he's incomplete. We've already heard about several companies that are reliablely known to be more, there are more than 25% of them, and you didn't put them on that list. For example, Pliva had 26% in 2002 at least. Why isn't PLIVA here? And then you wrote it like this: according to an agreement with the IMF, it's the same one that you don't want to argue about here, you keep refusing to argue about it, there the government has committed that 800 companies with less than 25% will sell immediately. Privatize immediately. And what about the others and who else are they? The others are these 210 you listed here. And what will happen to them, and you wrote it. How would the influence through the supervisory boards of these societies better prepare for the upcoming privatisation? So these 210 with the 800 you intend to privatize. Now I wonder what you're going to give the pensioners because you promised them that portfolio. You promised them that. There are no representatives of the Retired Party now that they ask you that, so I have to ask you that, what's going to happen to them? How will you fulfill the promise made to the pensioners that you will repay their pension debt from this portfolio? Nice. And the defenders, and the workers? Whom you promised, and now you've written it well, you mean to sell it. And that's why you're putting confidential people on the monitoring boards to get that privatisation ready as best you can. You've made your point. How did this list come up? So I have the impression that it was drawn up by the government first naming HDZ members in supervisory committees, in companies, and then by putting together a list and sending them to the Parliament and listing that these companies are of particular social interest. 'Cause look at me, it's not clear at all that there's some kind of Pag veterinary station with a base capital of 21 thousand and 200 kuna on that list. 21 thousand and 200 kuna is a core capital and it is of particular national interest. We heard this morning that the government is working on priorities. This is proof that it is. This is proof that the President of the Parliament was right when he said it. Because it is the government's priority to establish that this veterinary station with a core capital of 21 thousand and 200 kuna is of state interest, and it is not of state interest. Discuss in this House why citizens will pay for more expensive bread and milk, why they will pay for more expensive medicines, why they will have to pay for treatment is not of state interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21911	Go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21912	That's not the government's priority. So I'm saying...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21913	items on the agenda... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21914	State interest, I'm talking about state interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21915	First warning to return.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21916	I'm talking about the state interest, but I know, Mr. Vice President, that it's embarrassing for you to listen so that you won't take away your word for me again and show your relationship to Parliament and the right to speak, I conclude with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21917	Thank you very much. It looks like self-discipline, self-control required. Thank you very much. The government's official, Mr Ante Babic, asked for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21918	So the argument that we have explained more in detail today concerns that the state interest is defined, since nowhere is defined, is not defined in the law anywhere else, is defined by the right of ownership or the right of ownership of the state. So that's how we define certain societies in the state interest. As far as Pliva is concerned, PLIVA as you correctly state and there were more allegations that Pliva was over 25% in 2002 but this year is no longer so that it falls out of it. As far as lateness is concerned, the delay is conditioned by what I have previously stated, which is waiting for amendments and additions to the laws that then allowed HT to be on the list of companies of special state interest. As for the law itself and the appointment, I wouldn't want to talk about it. So what's fundamentally here in, as you see from your exposure is that you want to sign some other state interest, and the fundamental state interest that would be managed here is the interest that the state has and the basis of its ownership over these companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21919	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21920	Well, it's incorrect that the secretary of state is talking about Pliva. Because look, you're not even admitting that Pliva was over 25% in 2002, and this whole list you did, and you wrote that data on FINA's capital was obtained on the basis of the 2002 final accounts. So, you're all of this list is based on 2002. Well, then the 2002 Pliva that had more than 25% would have to be there, but it didn't. You wrote it on your own, brother, as it pleases you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21921	Thank you. Madam Representative Dear Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21922	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We are actually discussing today a revised proposal for a list of companies of special national interest. It should be said that the first proposal which came and discussed only on the Committee on Economy and was returned or withdrawn by the promoter, however, did not change either the argument nor the definition of specific state interest. For reasons, the applicant shall refer to Article 11, paragraph 6. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, the conduct of public duties where it is explicitly said that only the members of the Supervisory Board in trade societies can be officials of particular national interest. It is still said that they have no right to compensation except for some rights and some expenses. Since the law, as we have now heard, has not defined what this particular state interest is, the proposer here suggests that, that companies of particular state interest are all those societies where the state has more than 25%. I will also briefly refer here to the signed agreement with the IMF where it was established, or the government proposed, and thus signed with the IMF that all shares will be sold by the end of 2004 and companies with larger stakes by the end of 6 months 2005. In the Privatisation Fund, I have information that has been sent to the Fund Supervisory Board that they have already developed a programme that should be proposed by the Fund's administration which should accept it and through such a programme privatise it within these deadlines. However, I would suggest that the definition of special state interest be expanded because indeed only the criterion of ownership can not be a criterion for defining the specific state interest because I will only list some companies here whose names are almost nothing to me, and especially not to the general public. We have two carpenters, one from Virovitica, one from Lovran, we have the company Space from Sibenik, we have the company Iti from Dubrovnik, Isomont from Zagreb, Bookkeeper from Sibenik, these are all companies that have the basic capital of several tens of thousands to several hundred thousand capital. The question arises, therefore, what could be the particular state interest, which are the criteria for determining which company is of particular national interest. So it could certainly be employment, it could certainly be the level of capital, it could certainly be an activity that can be defined as an activity of particular national interest, it could be the criterion of export height, or the share of export revenue in total income, it could be a company that has regional importance, or which has significant development opportunities. Surely these are all better criteria than the property itself and on this basis only lists companies that are in the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. However, the question arises as to why officials, regardless of what level from state to local and regional self-government should be supervisors, as the law itself says they could be exceptional. When it comes to being a supervisor, or member of the Supervisory Board, then those officials have far more responsible obligations and significant obligations in the legislative or executive authority or in local or regional authorities and burden them with the business problems of certain companies, it really doesn't make sense because then no job is done properly and so far practice shows us that it is not possible to do such two responsible jobs in an appropriate manner. Supervisors should be persons of the profession representing the interests of the owner. I would like to see how a private owner would give the politician the opportunity just because a politician or official at regional or local level to represent his interests in his private firm is certain that he would take care of what qualifications he has, what his professional qualities are, what his work biography is, etc., that he would even consider putting such a man in charge of a company he owns. Therefore, I don't think the criteria were well chosen and it can't just be that criterion, that's what other colleagues said. Just an explanation that the supervisory boards will prepare better upcoming privatisation, it also does not stand until the end. It's known what a supervisory board function is. The Supervisory Boards shall appoint and resolve management, the management shall create management policy and they shall only monitor business and assess whether the management has implemented the programme on the basis of which it has been appointed. The privatisation of these companies will work will be done by the Croatian Privatisation Fund or its professional services, which will assess the Management Board which will also implement privatisation under the rules laid down. Therefore, it is certainly not acceptable in this way to define the specific state interest and in this way to establish a list of companies where state officials could exceptionally be members of the Supervisory Board, and I would actually adhere to colleagues who said that except for a few companies defined as public and state-owned companies in others they should not be found on this list at all. So I won't vote for this proposed list of companies of special state interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21923	Thank you very much. Replica's respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21924	Mr. President, here's an esteemed colleague I'd like to rephrase not only in view of her debate, because I've noticed with other colleagues as well as in terms of the debate that she's actually leaving the core of the debate or that there's a problem that we're discussing. I will just point out that this decision, which has been drawn up by certain criteria that we can agree on or not, but the criteria are logical consequences of the application of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest in the conduct of the public duties adopted by this House, and that and nothing more in terms of definition when some state official is in conflict of interest, and then that decision, in terms of the list of companies, presents it to us. We can debate within the meaning of the agenda point really it is a broad topic but then we are in violation of actually Rule 214 of paragraph 1 of the first indent because we are moving away from the topic discussed but I would also point out that everything that was spoken of by a respected colleague of the Law on Commercial Society as a special regulation. Therefore, companies have a regulation in the sense of registering the relations between the assembly, supervisory boards, administrations and administrations and regulated by one special regulation and let us not require this regulation and this list to regulate something that it actually does not in its essence not want or cannot regulate but is not subject to either agenda or debate. Finally, just one more sentence, so here in terms of the application of the Law that I have quoted, we have a list of companies where state officials are if members of the Supervisory Board are not in conflict of interest and even when members are not receiving or not entitled to a membership fee, they have only the right to compensation for the costs and costs of attending the meeting of the Supervisory Boards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21925	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21926	My colleague reminds me that I am not talking about the agenda point and this is about the members of the Supervisory Board and it cannot be that the members of the Supervisory Board to whom this law applies are also not subject that they must be represented criteria for the Supervisory Board in the Law on Trade Society is normal and logical. You're a lawyer. I'm an economist, so I think we understand each other. But here they talk about when they can be extremely members of the Supervisory Board. The law does not say what is the criterion by which it will determine whether a company is of particular national interest. The government says that they suggest that it be our share of ownership, and I say that it can't be just a criterion because we see that it leads to absurdity that we have a company that has a base capital of 10 thousand kuna and that it's a company of special state interest. Well, that's absurd. I'll tell the company from my county that deals with the production of the shoe top she certainly can't be a company of special state interest. But shipyards, these are companies that can be found by their activities to be of particular national interest, or those that have such activity that they are of particular national interest or have such a size of employment that they can be of state interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21927	Thank you. State Secretary Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21928	I don't see any problem in where you want a better criterion than ownership. I think property and this state has been neglected so far and I think it's one of the main drivers of the criteria that we put in this Decision that we propose. And in the law and amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Interest, you have legally stated, that they can be extremely involved, means government officials in such societies that are listed. This list no, certainly should not be considered as a list in which the state will appoint as soon as it is brought to all supervisory committees of its people because it is not the subject of this, the subject is that some of the lists of, some of the companies on this list are... They will certainly be chosen by the state to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board and will be specially prepared before privatisation. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] But the main criterion of what we have managed is the right of ownership which is one of the fundamental rights and especially for every person, and especially for the state as one collective person.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21929	Okay. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21930	Well, now Mr. Babic actually incorrectly said that the property was run here. It was partly owned by property, only where ownership is above 25%. And the government, or state as owner and below 25%, has an interest in participating and overseeing business in companies. Especially in high-priced companies. So it's not true that you've managed only by ownership, you've partly managed by ownership and only by companies that have more than 25%.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21931	Respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic, also a correction to the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21932	Well, it's a good part of what my colleague already said when she said that the secretary of state here mentioned handling the property criterion. So you don't think you'd be entitled to private companies that are absolutely owned by private companies to set up your own people? That's absurd what you're saying. And at the end of the day when you said the law wasn't regulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21933	Fellow Members of Antičević, which is incorrect, you are polymizing with one position which, whether or not ownership of the criterion, whether it is entirely or illogical, is the position of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21934	It is incorrect that the law did not regulate what is of particular interest. So if you yourself as a representative of the government don't know what this special interest is, then get...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21935	My colleagues, it's incorrect that the law didn't regulate. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić, here you are, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21936	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting the allegations of a government representative who has said that ownership is the only criterion, or criterion for putting it on the list. Even property, and that's not a definitive criterion that indicates that there exists among other things, there's probably another one I don't know about. But let's say for a company of capital where the state owns 38.7% is not on this list. This company of capital is called "veget and fruit dryer in Vrpolje" there is the property of the state, there is the owner of the county, and this is the only vegetable and fruit dryer in Croatia. I think that's where the state's interest should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21937	Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21938	Thank you, Mr. President. At first, I would say that this list of companies of particular national interest is no consequence, the necessary consequence of the Law on conflict of interest. He's a tool to enforce that law. It's a failure... if the property criterion is the only criterion for which the country was served, which the proposing served, is that not a comedian criterion? [[speaks off, can't be heard]] In fact, the state didn't buy these companies, so if they were of particular importance to her, she bought them as particularly important, and now she has them, now she manages them, she'll appoint supervisory committees, and I don't know what she'll do. The state won these companies as social simply because no one else wanted them. If someone wanted to buy them, they'd already buy them. The list is called a list of companies of special state interest with an emphasis on special. Of course the state is in the best interest of everything that's going on in this country. Especially what's in her possession and what she can manage. The state would be happy to manage something else, but there's no way. But it's an interest. But it's not a special interest. The promoter has nowhere defined the particular interest that this company is important because we think it will be worth more than Bill Gates in 2020 or something like that. The state simply put a number 25 into the computer, where it's 25 and more, it's got a list. It's a mechanical approach that I don't see the point of that actually. On the other hand, state officials, so ministers, assistants, deputies and all other state officials can be in administrations, or supervisory committees. Just having doesn't mean that by the logic of things and by the logic of the interest of the state official must be inside to control, I guess management does it well or what. It can and must be in there if I say it again of particular interest to the state. These companies didn't come on the list either because they're very good or because they're very bad, but they came by this method I described earlier, someone typed 25% into the computer, and this list came out. That list is probably even wider, it's heard from the discussion that it's even wider. However, these other companies that should have been on the list eventually and according to this criterion are not on the list, they are, of course, discreetly the one who drew up the list and sent it down here on that list. So it's another logic that serves something completely different, not what it says. And why are there no Croatian waters on the list? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21939	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21940	A colleague said the state simply came to property because simply no one wanted it. By the fact that I have never heard anywhere, and this is the highlight of what can be said in this council hall, which is all, what all messages are sent to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are watching this transmission. I'm speechless.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21941	Replica, the esteemed representative of Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21942	Mr. President. A fellow representative said in the debate that this criterion by which this list was drawn up was a comedian criterion. No matter what he thinks, he's the only logical criterion in profiling something to come up with a final solution. What's the owner's interest in a company? The interest of the owner in one company is that the company is a successful business. If it successfully operates it achieves its objectives, they can be outwards, where the state certainly has a special interest, because then it benefits from meeting social, health and other school education and other needs, and if it is inside, then they are employees of people who receive salaries. And I think it's a logical state and special interest of every country that then, in that sense, forms its own strategy. If we are now asking the question of defining special state interest, we will also open a topic that could find everything and anything about some ancient experiences that special state interest is something particularly secretive and that it must be particularly valuable and especially described in special laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21943	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Not a replica, you picked up a plate of corrections to an incorrect quote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Vuljanić, you've raised a record of "infringement of the Rules of Procedure", which I can do for you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Frano Piploic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21944	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of my address, I am obliged to respond to my colleague Kapraljevic, who said that in his presentation, I mixed pears and apples, grandmothers and frogs. A colleague isn't right. You seem to be distracted by one sentence when I said there are 210 magnificent ones on this list. I'm an esteemed fellow sociologist, so I'm trying to speak the language of my profession as much as I can. And besides, this is figuratively said. And you know what's magnificent about this? It is magnificent that these 210 companies, companies are not sold out as it has been tried to make with Sunny Hvar and in the past term with Croatian insurance etc., etc. It is magnificent, magnificent for every Croatian citizen, for the Croatian state. Yesterday, in my debate about "Viktor Lenc" I said one sentence that when it came to Slavonia, the state towards Slavonia was a stepmother and according to other works in Croatia was a broad breast mother. With this list of companies of particular state interest, in particular the area of Vukovar-Srijemska County sees one concern of the state that the potentials still there owned by the Croatian state will be placed in the role of developing the region and in the function of settling the life needs of the people of Vukovar-Srijem County, in addition to those of Brod-Posavia, who were largely killed in the Homeland War. In this we see one concern that we will not be deceived and that we will be helped where we can use this help. He says to our people, "Help yourself, man, and God will help you." We're trying to help as much as we can under the circumstances that we are in. However, if anyone is wondering, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will take for example the City of Slavonski Brod, which has become a small town case with the largest number of mine deaths in Croatia in this year or, say, a city with bloody accounts on boat streets. Why is that? The population from Bosnia and Herzegovina came to this area, the Croatian population with a purse in their hands, with a bandage in their hands and cracked the area of Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21945	My colleague, please go on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21946	I'll be back.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21947	Don't come back, go on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21948	In any case, Brod Slavonski expects that since Djuro Djakovic is on this list of companies that will meet and help Slavonski Brod and other companies. In what way? Djura Djakovic's office informed the past government about the claims Đuro Djakovic had towards the Croatian government. In 2000, the claims were 20 million kunas and at the end of the last year about 80 to 85 million kunas only on the basis of claims made to the Croatian Railways and there is especially MORH, there are Roads etc. If these claims were charged, it would be a great help for Slavonski Brod and Djuru Djakovic. The next example is the New Town Class. The Novogradski Klas is also in difficulty, a company that deals with the production and trade of cattle, meat and meat processing during the Homeland War suffered great damage, during the Homeland War it gave its means to purchase weapons. At the time of the Homeland War, she was a supplier of Croatian Army troops. Therefore, if these claims that the state does not dispute were charged, it would help Djura Djakovic, etc. I know what I'm saying now hurts. These are the life-threatening facts of the citizens of the three counties of Brod-Posavina, Vukovar-Srijemska and Požeko-Slavonska. I think that now many here would be happy if the Croatian government didn't find a solution for VUPIK or, say, if they didn't find a solution for Borovo. In any case, we expect, we support this list and we expect that the Croatian Government will recognise all interests and that these interests will be realised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21949	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Antun Kavljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21950	First of all, I'd like to correct what my colleague said that I said that he collects pears and apples, and grandmothers and frogs. That's not true. I only said to collect pears and apples. And now after his presentation, I agree now that he's collecting both the grandmothers and frogs because all he's saying is I'm surprised you didn't warn him before because it has nothing to do with the subject he was talking about. And what he's saying is that I was distracted by 210 magnificent ones. No, call them gold, silver, purple, yellow, but don't say that's the reason. The reason is that the government must obey the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21951	Comrade Kapraljevic, this collection of frogs and grandmothers, and pears and grandmothers and frogs, no correction is an incorrect allegation. It's the correcting of certain thesises, similar. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Honorable representative Lucin, correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21952	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, there's more to it than that. I'll try two for a while. It is incorrect that Slavonia received much less money at the expense of the second part of Croatia. That's what we talked about yesterday. Well, it would be good to start talking in this House on the basis of exact data so that you can actually see how many years have gone from budget to budget on all grounds towards Slavonia and green Croatia and as far as we can tell from the blue Croatia. I know that Slavonia needs more because she paid a higher price for the war. Secondly, you have a list of 210 companies, companies. You spoke of the intention and sale of the former government and that of the Croatian firm.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21953	This is no longer a correction, this is a contest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21954	Yeah, it's not true that the former government sold out companies because it sold them out in its 36th term.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21955	Replica, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church. No colleagues are injured by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21956	Thank you, Mr. President. 210 magnificent are not magnificent at all. They are not magnificent at all because they have not been sold out and not sold out. Some things are just hard to listen to and stay and say nothing. From where these 210 companies are magnificent because they have not been sold out or sold out as a colleague says. Furthermore, this is about the state's interest. Mrs. Fuchek and a lot of people are talking about it. Well, of course wherever someone owns it, wherever the state owns it, she must have an interest in the company where he owns it, but this is about special state interest. For a particular social interest, a good criterion is not enough only to have property. We can do this professionally, politically as you like. It's a pretty primitive criterion that sets nothing. In particular, it does not determine the specific state interest. In order for something to be of particular national interest then it must be important for development, for employment, for exports, for market leadership and for many other gentlemen. For safety, for stability, for the border, for, and so on and so on. How important a 20 or not criterion can be, or I don't know how many percentages of ownership in, at the factory that manufactures shoelaces. Please. And let me add here is often about the Law on Preventing Interest, but it's also about that objectively people think they're getting compensation for, that those officials who are in these companies in supervisory committees get compensation. The truth is, they were getting it by 2000, and it was a high fee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21957	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21958	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21959	I'd like to beg you...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21960	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21961	and you and other colleagues not to show parts, parts of clothing or clothing or clothing because if everyone shows it then we will come up with very interesting showings. Reply to the replica, respected representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21962	Well, I'd like to answer to my esteemed colleague, the Church, if it's true that ownership is a primitive criterion for why so much jag for ownership. Today we certainly wouldn't be discussing it in the Croatian Parliament if it wasn't for that property. We wouldn't discuss it at all. Therefore, if it offends anyone that the Croatian state is still sovereign in some parts of its economy that we cannot clearly boast about, that is the problem of those who worry. But I really think it's magnificent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21963	We have one now very interesting manuscript on the application. I assume it is a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21964	Dear Mr. President, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. As a result, the government was obliged to submit to this Parliament a list of companies of particular national interest. And according to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. And it would be good, because it seems that the government has a problem with understanding this Law, that at all a few sentences look back on that Law. The Law was adopted in accordance with the National Anti-Corruption Programme, which was made during the coalition government and which it also adopted during which the basic law was passed. He was complimentary with other criminal law regulations. The truth is, somewhere he needed to be further promoted from, I'm talking about a criminal. We should believe just as we did then, and we believed when the law was passed that it was precisely this legal regulation to prevent conflicts of interest on the holders of public duties that would act preventively. Its basic meaning was not so much in these criminal provisions and infringing provisions but precisely to act preventively so that the conflict of interest would not occur at all because not only in such a way, because it was considered and I think there is no dilemma about it and there is one consensus that only in such a way can raise the level of trust in the legitimacy and impartiality of the behaviour of all the functions of the authorities in the interests of the citizens. However, those who observe us in particular the degree of corruption preceded by our country speak, but this does not only apply to us, but to all transition countries that are just transition countries, and especially those that are still in the process of conversion particularly vulnerable and sensitive to the element of corruption, and corruption is lurking at the moment. Therefore, it is necessary to arm itself, so in this sense it should be, for citizens, that public authorities are not in such a position. It was also the meaning of the law. That is why I think that the Government, that the Government has even improved the existing law and the Government has successfully boasted. Here we had representatives of the minister who talked about it, in the media it was widely talked about, precisely the government's willingness that extremely officials could be members of supervisory committees in companies that are of particular interest. ... two conditions must be met: they may be extremely officials and in what state-owned enterprises, of particular interest. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now the government says the law doesn't say anything that's of particular interest. Well, that's what it is. Your image of the authorities as she presents herself to the public and what do you mean, you assume, so what is this special interest? Of course, it's not a special interest to discuss here today about this International Monetary Fund that you've secreted beyond the knowledge of the public, it's not a special interest...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21965	My colleague, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21966	But it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21967	Don't go into anything we discussed and about
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21968	And we'll just discuss it. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21969	And insinuate about some secrets and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21970	Well these are facts, these are “facts”.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21971	It's not facts, it's your observations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21972	So also the Government, and the Government, like this in its proposal, boldly and boldly says: Here is an article 11, paragraph 6. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest we submit this proposal. And it was supposed to be like this: contrary to Article 11, paragraph 6. The law on preventing conflicts of interest, the government is proposing this list. You say here and you talk and you keep referring to the ownership criteria. I'll do it again. So did you think you'd have the right to send your party officials or a person of your trust to private companies? Well, the criteria of ownership are just the basis for you to give it to yourself, to exercise your right. So that's the basics, not the criteria. But you are, here are really messed up grandmothers and frogs. It is interesting, therefore, that the government sees what these are, which are companies of particular national interest. One France has two such companies and it is precisely those companies in which it kept the majority because then it is an interest and it... Then it would make sense. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, 210 companies put into special interest means that there is no interest, not special. Like when the government talks about any topic, this is a government priority, it's a government priority and so on. And when it's all done, it's nothing. Therefore, the basic sense of being very discreet here. They're already very clear about what we're talking about here. We're talking about it, I'll just point out here so it's not just my opinion, it's public opinion. The “Evening List” of September 21st 2004 says: “The Supervisory Boards, HDZ's replacement of members of supervisory boards in state and semi-state enterprises.” So we need to accommodate our people who were not adequately located, and that is what they require. The manager of the hotel company's supervisory operations. And then in the biographies, so it's this particular interest that it's about, so it's this government's special interest where it's taking a lot of account and who's going to come in. Who's gonna be the supervisor? Well, then as people already know it, then they write, I'm just quoting from the papers, that some go far into history, so one of the Vukovar board members writes that his grandfather was killed by a Partisan hand. So they're qualifications for expertise, they're just people who will lead the particular interest, special interest, they're those lucky ones, those 210 magnificent ones. Happy ones who then don't get on that list if that's your criterion, and it seems that's why I'm here on a fellow appeal that it's exactly a reduced number where the state will really present its real interest and then in choosing people to then be a truly exceptional situation where it can be a state official but the good government manifests its quality and quality of government right now to choose experts rather than similar people. However, not waiting for this list that the Government could not act until it proposed a list, or until Parliament adopted that list, however, people on the supervisory boards are replaced and HDZ party officials and members are appointed. Mr. Antun Kapraljevic was also intervened because state officials entered the supervisory committees without the Parliament setting out a list of these people and, in the letter of the Law, they could not have been or could have done so if the Government respected the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. However, it is obvious that the Government has been acting in an illogical manner, defiantly acting contrary to the Law, it may not be surprising when we discussed two anti-constitutional laws 10 days ago, where the Constitutional Court has said something else, it is practically proposed to amend the Family Law. So, then, no wonder if the Constitution is not respected that the Law will also be respected. Otherwise, the Law has a lot of problems in its application, one of the co-authors of the Law, Mr Kregar, and recently said there is no political will for its implementation. This was one test where the government could score very good political points, however, it shows all over again, unfortunately, all that haughtiness and total ignoring of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21973	Thank you. We have one correction of an incorrect quote and three replicas, before that one notice. Thematic session of the Committee on Gender Equality will be held today at 14 o'clock in the Chamber of Ivan Mažuranić's room number 84. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21974	A respected colleague said the government systematically violated the law by naming its representatives as members of the supervisory boards. This, for the sake of the public, needs to be said that it is not true, so no one can deny the government's right to exercise the powers of the government that are set out in specific regulations. And yet I'm still here it's just about a situation where a government official under a special regulation comes into conflict of interest and nothing more and nothing less. But so publicly speaking that the government deliberately, arrogantly and some other expressions violates the Law is an absolutely inappropriate and incorrect factual allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21975	Thank you. Replica respected representative Fuček.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21976	I will ask Mrs. Anticevic if it is possible to ask this replica of myself as a question and to me if she is ready to answer. Speaking of biographies, intentions, in which supervisory committees are thought to be drawn up, I will ask the question, whether in the last term there would have been or might have been an opportunity to enter into the supervisory board of a state-owned company with 500 million kuna capital and what qualifications there are. Please, ma'am, as you said otherwise, the tiles are being misused, I deliberately used the replica, because I know you'll answer me, so if you think you already have the answer, or if you know it was possible during the SDP, I would ask you to answer me now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21977	Thank you. You're too late. The answer to your question will be coffee at the coffee shop. Replica Peru, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21978	I will try by replicating and using the institute of replicas to my esteemed colleague, Ingrid Antičević, to answer in a way and to my colleague Fuček. Namely, my colleague, Ingrid Anticevic, said these make assumptions about setting up future similar to the supervisory boards, no, it's already done. I'm going to show it to the 8th constituency, and I'm only following these sea-related activities, so I'm going to show it by reading five sentences from the New List of 31. 8. that there are honest people who do not want to enter these games, and I will show the public how HDZ does it, the title is "The earthquake in May 3rd, the removed Supervisory Board", "Sugar: I am an honest man in this I do not want to participate", the Supervisory Board was replaced without any explanation, Mladen Sugar from the Croatian Party of Retirement refused to do an honorable job. I belong to a retired party, I'm 78 years old, I'm a former pilot, and I've been an honest and honest man my whole life, and I want to stay that way, so I thank those who proposed me for the new board of supervisors on May 3rd, but I see that I'm being set up here and I don't want to take part in this kind of shift. At the very end of the main assembly of shareholders on May 3rd, Mladen Šugar shook the otherwise routine and pre-prepared session, in which the overwhelming decision of the majority owner removed the complete composition of the current supervisory board of directors very successfully whose report was unanimously accepted and appointed a new Supervisory Board, which now has only three members. No one, however, predicted that the highest criterion of yesterday's events in the assembly would be given by a non-judicial member of the new supervisory board by retired Mladen Sugar. How can I participate in this...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21979	Thank you. Your replica time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21980	Thank you and so does the Croatian Democratic Community.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21981	The replica of Jure Bitunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21982	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to commend my colleague Ingrid for not getting into one mistake as a previous colleague and not talking about the list of companies in terms of the strategy for economic development and, in some ways, certain economic operators should be on the habitual list when it comes from society of particular interest. However, she said one good thing which is that she has a basis, and the government has called it a criterion for the list of these companies and therefore I can accept it in that part. However, it is a third, defacto where she and her colleagues from the party are implicates against this list of companies is about the following what an existing member... people who are on the supervisory boards, who are presidents of the administrations in congregations etc. they should maintain their positions, and thus the SDPs would continue, regardless of whether the government has an extended management arm when it comes to the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21983	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21984	I think it's worth saying here. If so, such a concern of the state that its officials are party sigmatizers or members of the Board of Supervisors, why don't you, gentlemen or all of us, hire your party colleague nicely and meet him nicely, give him a salary and your business is booming?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21985	Thank you. I have to admit an interesting idea. The word has a respected representative of Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21986	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This decision gives us a list of companies in which the state, by the title of the decision, has a special state interest. This decision actually allows us to place 25 percent of the ownership or business stakes in these companies, where the state has, so we have the possibility of putting the state of its officials in place on the Supervisory Board. In my opinion, I don't see anything controversial about it. Because 25% of the equity stake in one company is a pretty high equity stake. And therefore, if the state in a society has 25%, it is naturally interested to know what is going on in that company. Membership in this Supervisory Board of State officials will also make it possible. There were, of course, suggestions here, speeches here that state officials shouldn't even be on boards. Now we can set a different thesis, I ask you, which of the natural persons, of the citizens who have a company or who has 25% of the shares in a company, who would give up this right to have no insight and control of what's going on in that company? We here need to distinguish between the management of the company and the supervision of the company's work. This is precisely what we want to make possible, because this Law on conflict of interest requires that state officials can only be extremely members of supervisory committees in companies of special national interest. And that's why this decision stipulates that these societies are the ones where the state has 25% so-called ownership stakes. I really don't see anything controversial here, although it's really legitimate and it's perfectly normal to talk about the criteria. The criteria could have been really different. It could be said that the state only has an interest in companies that I don't know have a thousand and more employees, who have a share capital I don't know 500 million or more, that it's just exporters, that it's just them or them. However, I have the impression that this would make things more complicated, so we might get a slightly lower list of companies, so maybe those who aren't on that list, which is why we're not important to the state to monitor how it works in that society. And so, I really don't see any problems here, because this is one of my decisions that only gives us the possibility that in those companies that are really and in concrete practice, in concrete conditions, significant to work, and in which we have those 25%, we can have our own member in the Supervisory Board. That's all it's about, and I'm actually the only point of that decision I see in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21987	Thank you. Dear Representative Antičević, I didn't see, did you lift the correction of an incorrect allegation? Then the correction, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you were raised? Wrong. Okay. Correction of an incorrect quote is respected, you have also raised for correcting the incorrect quote for both the violation of the Rules of Procedure and the replica. Now tell me what of it? Then you'll wait a while. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21988	On several occasions, counterpart Bosnjakovic said, I see nothing disputed that the criterion was 25%, neither do I. But then why isn't there a company where the state is over 50%, why isn't there a Liberian, here I ask you open now, please answer me why there is no Lebanon, why there is no Croatian waters, say?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21989	Thank you. Let's go to the replicas. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21990	In 209, this wasn't a correction, this was more of a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21991	Let's go to the replicas. Dear representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21992	Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, of course the state has an interest in overseeing business in all companies and where it has 1% and where it has 25% and where it has 100% share in ownership. and that it will find a way to ensure that it has insight into the business of a company. Where the ownership criteria agree with the remaining owners they will have a member of the Supervisory Board, they will appoint a member of the Supervisory Board and will directly have control over it. Where there is little ownership, let's say 1%, and by that criterion, it won't be possible to raise so many votes that there are members of the Supervisory Board, there will be monitoring, that is to say, to carry out their control function at the shareholder's section itself, so they will vote whether they accept the management report or not, whether they accept the supervisory board's report or not. But this is about something else. This is about when the supervisory board of such companies will be a state official. And that's where we're warning, and I said through my debate, so it's certainly more of a state interest or special interest in one HT if the state had 1%, because it's got a dividend divided by 4 billion kuna dividend, than in one company that's listed here and has a share capital of 10 thousand kuna. She can't even make 10,000 kuna dividends, probably, that's the thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21993	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21994	Whether without this decision, the state actually cannot put any of its officials on the board of directors in any commercial society. That's all it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21995	Replica, the esteemed representative of Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21996	Thank you very much. I mean, I belong to those who don't two about the fact that expensive officials can and should be on the supervisory boards of some companies. I must express my satisfaction that, therefore, HDZ changed its rhetoric, because before this law we often had opportunities to hear in this assembly that ministers, officials should not sit on boards. And I am pleased that the HDZ has now changed its rhetoric and its position. But the problem is a list of 210 companies. No one can convince me that the state has a special interest in the company where the owner owns its share of, say, 15 thousand kunas, let someone here answer me, here's the promoter of what kind of interest is it? And perhaps it would be good, Mr. Vice President, if we could get a list of members of the Supervisory Board or just an officer of the Supervisory Board who, with today's date, is sitting in this list that we got ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21997	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of the Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21998	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As part of the replica of fellow Members, Lucin injured Article 214 where he was trying to impute another party, the first party in this Croatian Parliament, or the Croatian Democratic Community, to change attitudes which I do not think falls within the replica in such a way that the injured Rules of Procedure in Article 214 are affected.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u21999	I don't think the Rules of Procedure are hurt because the concept of replica is as wide as we know. Replica, the respected representative of Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22000	What was essentially said by Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec, and the meaning of this law was precisely that government officials appeared somewhere extremely. So, this situation itself that they and they cannot appear exceptionally if you have already made a proposal of two hundred companies and beyond. So connect each other. Both are exceptions to the rule that state officials cannot be members of the Supervisory Board and you have made a rule out of that rule or exception. However, I will draw attention again to something that is very important and raises the responsibility of the members. No one here is talking about responsibility and it will be accepted by people of a job they are not normal to, but that's why we don't have what the SDP Club has proposed to do today, a central criminal act of economic crime, to abuse the trust that comes from direct responsibility if what goes wrong with the board and members of the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22001	Thank you. Replication response, Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22002	Look, before 2000, officials were on the supervisory boards of companies in which the state had ownership stakes even after 2000. And so now after 2003, and I believe and will be in the future because it's simply the natural interest of the owner to know what's going on in his company. And I really need to do it again. I don't see anything controversial. In the current legislation concerning the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, we do not have the authority and the possibility of any of our government officials being either in the HT that you said was actually this big of income or in that small of 25% which has no income, and this only opens up the possibility, which does not mean that officials will be in all 210 companies. And I totally agree with everyone who said it would be convenient to actually have some sort of list and review where we actually have delegated our officials or we don't have and of course the question of responsibility as to how they carry out their duties and duties as members of the Supervisory Board. That's question number one to me. And this question is actually a formal assumption that we can put our member in society and the question of responsibility and the question of work is something else. And I agree that we should open the topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22003	Thank you. Last line, Honored Representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22004	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Kola Bošnjaković rightly claimed that it was only about possibilities and that, of course, it was a fundamental property criterion because it was simply the best possible way to reach one solution and one criterion that would open the possibility, so only the possibility of opening up the possibility for state officials to be members of the Supervisory Board, of course without compensation. However, in discussing this subject, a lot of things that are not true are heard. Here, one of the things that was heard was that HDZ had changed and changed some of its views. No, on the contrary. It is the SDP who has changed his attitudes because we have just heard the presentation of colleague Zgrebec that it is impossible to conduct one responsible duty and yet to be a member of the Supervisory Board. HDZ has been warned that it is impossible to do so in a way that the SDP has done so to fill itself with a member of the 12 supervisory committees and at the same time a state official. That was impossible, and we don't give up on that attitude. Therefore, it is a very clear view. Also, why does the SDP show such concern for members of the Supervisory Board who are changing in congregations regularly through the Croatian Privatisation Fund do so daily because the mandates of members of the Supervisory Board are running out. But there's only one reason why the SDP is rebelling today. Because four years ago, he, together with his coalition partners, had exclusively set up members of the supervisory boards and boards presidents or directors of state companies, companies, etc. So that was the only criterion. To remind the public only of the fact that you formed a famous coordination body for setting up personnel that worked and, of course, under the pressure of the public, you formally abolished it although it continued to act continuously on the same principle of party similarity and political belongings. Therefore, this is the matter, so that perhaps your members of the SDP remain members of the supervisory board, that is the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22005	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22006	Since my colleague quotes me, there's no doubt that he hurt the Rules of Procedure because they're on the line. 209, because it's on the line. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22007	It's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22008	Yeah, it's a hundred percent because he answered the line from a fellow MP. But I can't make a mistake in two names, let's say a colleague is waiting for a place in a small Dubrovnik company for a board member.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22009	Thank you. I said that the term or the institute of replicas is a broad term and as in the previous case it is not an injury to Article 209. Replica response, respected representative Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22010	I have to do it again. We must open up the possibility for our members to be members of the supervisory board of companies in which we have 25% of the ownership because that is how we are responsible. We'll be irresponsible if we take this right ourselves because that's what we'll be irresponsible to the property that we actually have. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22011	Thank you. The word has the secretary of state, Dr. Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22012	I am glad that the respected representative Anticevic-Marinović is here. I wanted to simply warn myself that I agree with her that we are in a country with a healthy market economy although we are close to what the European Commission said, that we are a case like France whose case Mrs Anticevic-Marinović stated that we are such a regulated country I believe that this list would not have 210 companies but would have much less. Of course, that too will happen because this list will change according to how privatisation will take place. In addition to the ownership which is the basis of the criterion is 25% and more ownership and as we came to it by world criteria 10 percent higher ownership is considered a significant share. Anything below 10% of ownership is a minority stake that doesn't mean much in governance. Since these are the world frameworks, we have respected both the Croatian reality and the reality of the transition economy in that from 10% to 20% to 25%, you do not have real interference in terms of governance and ownership. We know the situation that out of 50% and the rest brings that right. Furthermore, what we wanted to say was that Mrs Antičević-Marinović also mentioned that it was the Law on the Prevention of Interests which makes an exception and that, in exceptional cases, state officials may be members of the Supervisory Board. We have put another criterion here, and this is the criterion of compliance with the strategy, the rapid privatisation strategy that the Government is considering, in its thinking, and this is precisely the reason why it leads to, with the basis of, and that is, ownership, with a 25 and more percent criterion of what we consider to be enough property to influence the company's action and business and speedy privatisation criteria, we believe that this is a sufficiently exceptional reason for these companies that are on the list, which will be subject to accelerated privatisation or preparation for privatisation sooner or later in these forthcoming periods that there is then a special state interest, that the state can do so through the work of supervisory committees. Of course, according to the Commercial Society Act, if someone else is placed on the supervisory boards, it must also answer to the owner at the main annual meeting of shareholders or owners may influence this, but since it is an accelerated process of the shortened time horizon then the impact through supervisory committees is needed to prepare these companies for the upcoming, accelerated privatisation. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22013	Thank you. Dear Representative Marasovic, you have raised your line, as far as I have seen, but this is not possible for the government's representatives to be presented under the Rules of Procedure. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22014	I'd like to correct the inaccuracies that my colleague said. We believe that 25 percent property is sufficient reason for companies to be on this list. I'm correcting that quote because it's not true. Because if you'd stuck to it and thought so, you didn't think so at all because if you thought so, then a company that's 50% state-owned, which is “Liburnia” for which I repeat again, it's a company that has 36 hotels and more other facilities, if it's not a state-interest, I don't know if then these ten thousand underlying capital companies are an interest. So please tell me why that company that's over 50% didn't fall into your criteria of at least 25%?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22015	Thank you. We're moving on to the next representative. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22016	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So I have to say that when we read this document and we listen to reasons that there are lots of holes in the explanation and, which are not acceptable to the end. It seems to me that when it comes to the particular state interest that these must be businesses and I can accept part of the explanation of Mr. Secretary of State that this is property. Property, yes, Mr. Secretary of State, but it seems to me that there are very important activities involved. We don't have a statement here at all of what activities are these and to declare in what activities does the state really have an interest in? There's no such thing here. Surely, for, the amount of capital can and must also be influenced because we certainly cannot have the same relationship with an INA worth not knowing how many billions of kunas and the same relationship with some companies that have tens of thousands of kuna here. I would prefer it if we had the meaning of the prescribed and pre-prescripted criteria by which it would be determined. Finally, in areas of special state concern, there are companies, companies that can be of interest to the area, therefore also to the interest of the state because they have, hold a level of employment, carry development and everything else. It doesn't exist here. That's why I'll be free to ask the question. What is the interest, for example, of having a bookkeeping society that we have on, I think hundreds, probably thousands in the Republic of Croatia that are opening, closing and dealing with activities that I do not believe is of such interest to the Republic of Croatia. For example, what kind of interest is a law firm for the state? These are the most normal market activities anyone can open. Therefore, if this is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, it seems to me that Railways are of interest, that, that INA is from, that Croatia is an electricity industry, in any case I can accept and that veterinary cells are of particular interest to this country in areas of particular concern for the hygiene and other services, but here I am going to ask the question of what can a limestone from the Varazdin County be of particular interest to this country? It just shows that we did not follow some unique criteria and that it could easily or even better print, I understand that “The People's Newspaper” is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, but one printer in Gospić or one printer in Delnice, so it is the most normal activity that... I'm asking for a little silence from my colleague Kramaric. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] In addition, without this list, the Government or the State shall appoint the Supervisory Boards, it seems to me that it is unnatural and should still wait to be brought forward, to adopt this proposal as good or as bad as it may be, to adopt it, and then to appoint state officials to the supervisory boards. It seems to me that the most ridiculous example is the light metal factory in Sibenik. Also in this way, this has already been the case, and so far, government officials who were possibly on the boards of directors, that's already the law on the rights of state officials, so since 2000, government officials have been on boards but without the compensation of colleagues and colleagues. So we're not making a big story about how it's due to this law. This was supposed to be before, the other thing is that individuals regularly and dishonestly violated it. The third thing is what we set an example for local self-government. Units of local self-government and regional, such as counties, should take on their representative bodies the same decision on companies which are of particular interest to them. Given this, we're going to have a hyperinflation of such companies, I'd be wondering where and where, what do we have here and what is the situation with the facilities? I know they're going according to a special law, but if you're already going like that and hospitals that are highly valued property in this country, especially since they're expensive, their construction is expensive, they're being invested in a lot of money. It's called government officials. There's not a word about them here. I mean, of course they go according to special laws. Changes in the administrative councils have already been made and everything else. And the third thing, when I said that capital should still have some kind of impact there was a word here about Pliva. If one PLIVA is valid, it seems to me that about a billion kuna, then the small percentage of state ownership has a significant impact on the development of this country. She's not here. Not to mention Liburnia. It seems to me that again we have a list that is insufficient, which has its own drawbacks. We are already in the second half, almost at the end of 2004, and we are referring to FIMA documents and reports, i.e. FINA 2002. I think it should have improved a little bit and gone with what we had in 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22017	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by the respected representative byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22018	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Korenik has shown unclear criteria regarding the proposed proposal as the interest of the Croatian state, that Croatia should not have any interest in small enterprises. This is incorrect because wherever the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have more than 25% of the state's interest in the proposal. Because the state needs to take care of its assets. And my colleague also mentioned that the hospitals weren't listed here. So I would remind him about January 3rd and the National Journal that brought the shift of all the boards of directors and supervisors in hospitals and others, and the criterion was expertise, so we're tempered. And acadmic Padovan was then replaced as a member of the hospital's board of directors, I suppose, as unprofessional. So much for my colleague, Peru, and that's what the SDP did about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22019	Thank you. Please don't abuse the institute of correcting the incorrect allegations of controversy. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22020	My colleague Korenik mentioned hospitals but we need to know that this is a list of companies, and someone mentioned it before was Croatian water. These are constitutional, non-profit institutions, and cannot be written to companies of special or non-special social interest. And something else when it comes to hyperinflation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22021	What is the correcting of an incorrect quote?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22022	Well, my God, the hospital can't be on this list because it's an institution. It's not a company, it's number one. Let me say, don't disturb me. And number two will not come, there can be no hyperinflation of companies of particular national interest, in terms of units of local self-government and municipal societies. It is the fact that it is not the authority of this Parliament, but the authority of the local self-government units, that they declare a resident society from their area of particular interest to the community concerned, the city concerned, possibly the county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22023	Thank you. In the second part, you corrected an incorrect angel. Replica is a respected representative of Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22024	I have to replicate Mr. Korenica for the space of reason because I think every authority must put its own people. Every government puts its people, but smart government puts smart people. Now, let me give you a hint, so here's the list of 210 companies or whatever it sounds like, no one's talking about agencies because a whole series of agencies Mr. Babic has been left out. They're not here, there's a whole series of them not to tell the companies that are left out. There were mentions of some of them here. And I don't know why this list came from. They're probably already appointed people there, so let's get out of the computer, and then let's see where we have the presidents, so let's put them. Why did I say that, smart government puts smart people. Evidence that there was a lack of reason to put me somewhere and if I were a government without compensation, I would refuse it. So it's one of the proofs that I doubt the minds of those who have embraced such functions. They have to take it on their backs and they have no use for it. So I don't think that's how it should be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22025	But I can accept the general benefit of the state. Replica is a respected representative of the Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22026	So, please, Mr. Korenika said exactly 93 by 2000, many of the authorities at the time were on high-ranking boards and obtaining cadavers. Until almost 2000, high applications were received for the membership of supervisory committees. In 2000, it was lifted everywhere. But allow me now. The owner's interest is only to protect someone who is qualified so who's capable and who's paid for it. It will be a qualified able and paid man to do only well. A state official by which definition will protect the state interiors and do so for free. And especially if he's not capable of simply ruling the meter and company he's in. In this way, in fact, this list serves only to allow as many government officials as possible to continue to pass the law on preventing conflicts of interest, to enter the supervisory boards. This time without compensation, but apparently those stable other interests have. And I'm saying it won't protect the interests of the state well.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22027	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22028	Well, in my advance, I haven't disputed a single hour of owner's right to put his men on the boards of directors. I dispute the number of companies, i.e. companies that are on that list and the criteria that are related to this. Again, the ownership criterion can be one of the criteria. But it's absolutely certain that there should be employment, there should be a level of capital and that kind of activity, and it should be regionality, because you'll admit that we have activities that are of paramount importance to this country. No mention of HEP, of Ina by the railroads. However, no one can convince me at this time, that one printing company or one expedition is of particular national interest. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22029	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22030	In answering such a question, the fact is undeniable that certain ministers were either in the congregations or in the supervisory boards of commercial societies through other laws. This will also be an opportunity for this government because we are going to change the laws which they are entitled to, or, such an obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22031	Thank you. With this, we've exhausted our work for the morning part of the session. Continuation is at 15.00 hours. It's the honorary representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22032	Tell us, Mr. Vice President, where are we going tonight? To what point.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22033	We're going to 1900 hours. We'll get there in a row.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22034	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. Dear Representative Marko Širac, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22035	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. It is an obligation for the Government to submit a proposal to the Croatian Assembly of the Decision on the List of Trade Companies of the Special State Interest in which state officials may be extremely members of the Supervisory Boards under the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the conduct of public duties. As we can see, the Government did so in accordance with the provisions of Article 11(6) of the Law. It is now up to us to establish in the Croatian Parliament this list of companies of special state interest. What I would particularly like to draw attention to in today's debate is this dilemma today, which has spread through almost all the debates, which is a state interest to be included in this list, according to the Government's proposal. In my view, the Government has also proposed with firm arguments a list of these 200 and several companies, making sure that all those companies in which the Government owns at least 25%, except that the company is in the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund or that it is a public or state company. Each of us who has a premonition and who knows how to manage or oversee the work of companies knows well that owners directly or through their representatives who have less than 10% shares in a company or equity company are nevertheless very little can influence the business of that company and make some quality decisions. Only somewhere over 10% to 20% here can they already have some influence and a serious impact in making key decisions should be owned, owned by at least 25% of shares or shares in companies. Our government has made it clear that I will privatise all companies in which it has ownership shares or shares and less than 25% of ownership. Therefore, there is no need for these companies to be on this list because we are in fact solving the problem only of conflict of interest when our officials can be extremely in some management and supervisory board companies without any compensation. And these companies that are up to 25% in which the government or state has 25% ownership and if they are likely to be privatised by the end of the year, they have nothing to do with this list. Most of the companies in this number of 200 and several will also be privatised by 6 months next year because, as you know, the Croatian Fund will be abolished sometime within the 6th month of the following year because it will end its function for which this Government and this Croatian Parliament appointed itself or formed that it performs tasks of special interest. I don't see any rights that could acquire these companies that are on this list they won't be able to achieve any incentives, not for export, not for development or for nothing, so they've only found themselves on this list to determine and resolve this issue of conflict of interest. The question raised here is why some institutions are not on this list, so one of the colleagues mentioned Croatian Waters, I must say that it is probably solely because the distinguished gentleman did not have a detailed knowledge of the Law on Croatian Waters where it was found that it was not a commercial company, that he was not engaged in the acquisition of profits, but that he was carrying out activities which are of interest to the Republic of Croatia in terms of water management and water goods. Of course, such institutions that are actually institutions have a series, so these are our many other institutions that have no place to be on the list of these societies. And I'd end up with the next finding there's no owner on the globe who has property if he wasn't interested in what's going on with him and what's going on with him. It is therefore the responsibility of the Government and the State of Croatia to, in their ownership and other commercial companies not on this list, such as Pliva and all others have its members of the Supervisory Boards, however, these members of the Supervisory Boards cannot be state officials under the provisions of the Law on the basis of which we adopt this Decision. In my view, all the legal and technical questions concerning this Decision and the enforcement of the provisions that the Government had under the provisions of the law have been carried out and of course I will support the decision and vote in favour of this decision. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22036	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22037	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. The decision on the list of trade societies of special state interest that we have been discussing for a long time today, although I personally felt that this item of the agenda would not cause great attention from our parliamentary representatives, but... in some ways it caused great attention and attention and participation in the discussions in some way it caused the public, even when it comes to the Croatian public. I believe that here, in some ways, there are two concepts, on the one hand, the observation of companies of particular national interest within the framework of the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and, on the other hand, the supervision of companies of particular state interest in terms of economic and economic categories. Since the Secretary of State is Dr. Babic was quite clear and unequivocal to this decision, this proposal should be tied exclusively to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. In that direction, I don't think there are any dilemmas and that if we go to the scale of things, they're quite clear to all of us. And it is logical that in some way the state, no matter how large a company is, how large its core capital is, even how many workers work in the company in question, I believe that it is in some way mandatory to have the basis of ownership to take care and we have defined, the proposal has been proposed and so adopted in the law that this share should be something more than 25% and more. In that direction, I believe that the proposed law should be supported and some dilemmas removed on this matter should be removed. The debate on this topic must be touched in some ways by the privatisation area which some colleagues in their discussions and pointed out, and I believe that if we are to translate and lead to the end of privatisation in certain companies of the same government policy and decisions of the Croatian Parliament, it is absolutely necessary and necessary that the participation of Croatian officials should be monitored in some way by the economic course in these societies on the one hand and by the very course of privatisation on the other. Therefore, all speculations heard from opposition orders and on the issue that HDZ is looking for something special for its employees, officials, sympathisers, members of the field, etc. They're absurd. They are absolutely incorrect and I must say that our goal is to be the goal of all of us, not only of us in the ruling party, that in some way we have control over these poisoning societies on the one hand and on the other hand that the levers of powers still present by the former government and have not received effects in these 210 companies that are listed to in some way bring them into order, in one accordance with the Law on Commercial Companies, and that would be the guarantee and financial stability of the societies and their preparation for the privatisation itself. I would certainly mention that there have been chasing attempts to put on the list these companies and certain institutions, Mr Širac emphasized this as Croatian waters and similarities that are not even companies but are state institutions of special state interest and they are processed and defined their role in another way. I would certainly like to suggest one conclusion if the rapporteur and the secretary of state consider it meaningful and that is the next conclusion. Commercial companies of particular national interest are also companies in which the state has or acquires shares above 25% and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to report to the Croatian Parliament within 15 days of the day of the change. It is as far as possible that some companies which are not on this list are now due to default when it comes to shares may come to this list and possibly be in accordance with the company law of particular national interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22038	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22039	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The diversity of attitudes in this and other topics in the nature of things always stems from a different view or from a lack of understanding of the character of matter itself. The proposal for a list of state-owned companies in which the state has a special interest in the nature of things should represent one strategic document that was absolutely an opportunity so far and it is always an opportunity to know what the value of Croatian property was, it was in shares, it was in certain other ownership forms, it was in rights, it was in religious claims. The Register of State Property is something that every serious state legitimateizes in a way that it knows what it has as it knows how many of its citizens have to know the structure of its citizens so it's good that it knows exactly what it has to do with its assets. So the proposal for a list of companies is indeed one valid thing and something that should be supported in any case. In order to manage the criteria when stressing what is special and what is not, I think that everything that the Republic of Croatia has in its possession was either part of the stakes or in some other real rights of total clear and very important interest of the Republic of Croatia and clearly the Republic of Croatia does not have the right to make differentiation between this and that of its right. Therefore, all that the Republic of Croatia has is under the Constitution to treat it with special attention. Of course, the proposal for this decision is primarily based on the fact that it is necessary by virtue of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests Article 11(6) to try to regulate the part which states that in certain circumstances it is possible for officials who are numbered and who, compared to the previous proposals, are far-reaching, that they too can act exclusively on the supervisory boards and thus, on behalf of the State and on behalf of the State, to care as supervisors of the work of certain companies. Is there anything that is not an acceptable norm, something that has not been seen in the modern world? Probably not. So what's causing the debate? This debate has one of its content professional character and it is insufficient in that part explained. It is unquestionable that the very independence of Croatia is particularly important in the first years that one tendency exists for the state to die, in particular that the share of the state in companies should die, and that just one speed in privatisation is very important and one illusion has created that this rate of privatisation without some control and selectivity will bring one market character that was missing, that it will change relations in society and ultimately that there will be some prosperity. And there was almost one ideological political and economic oligarchy that truly believed that this uncontrollable rate of privatisation would create other relationships in society and that what people call prosperity would come into existence. Of course, this is not related to each other, and of course the modern economy is also experiencing some feedback, so today there are countries and in our neighbourhood that are very well both within state-owned companies and within the framework of the shares that they have and have as state-of-the-art concerns about these interests and these companies and these shares are, in fact, a development generator and a guideline and a guideline on how to regulate and promote the domestic economy. Therefore, the the thesis that the state is the worst lord is as well as the the thesis that the state cannot survive because the bad lord is a bad master and he is a failure. If the state is a bad master of its property, it generates that the state is bad. No, the character of the state is never bad. They can be individuals who are bad at managing that content. Therefore, the the the thesis that the country is a bad master is equal to that that all those who privatized something in Croatia are good masters. We know they're not. Therefore, we cannot take away the bad consequences by confirming the reasons that led to these facts. And so it's absolutely evident that when we talk about character and what we're talking about right now, we need to stop now and we need to think about whether maybe the combination of protection of state interests where we have a special interest as a state and privatisation of what belongs to the nature and character of things to private entrepreneurship is the best combination for so-called. Little people. So-called Because I don't think we're little people. The synergy of one and the other effects can therefore give and generate the missing development of Croatia. To agree that everything will solve our market, in the modern global world is one huge illusion, it won't solve it. Therefore, the state must be a stable guarantee and a stable leverage of the Croatian economy to develop it within those borders that correspond to Croatian citizens and in line with the possibility and state of our economy. As part of this, I absolutely support this decision in terms of a list that says what is Croatian, which they shared, of course, that they will be washed, of course they can change in a retrocative sense. We can also get a certain asset that is of quality and that will come under our pasture and under our attention. I therefore support this list and it is good to register the total property we are, I have said it several times, at the time and to know what it is called the property of the Republic of Croatia. It is a topic where there is a conflict or conflict or divergence in the conceptual part of it is when we try by law to prevent conflicts of interest to bring about the way we want to manage this property. And this property is very large and very significant. I don't mean to say that I'm the one for none of the officials having their place in the largest oil company. It is of genuine special interest and should be seated in it by someone who, on behalf of the government, wants to be guaranteed by the ruling party's political options that nothing will happen there that would be bad. But there's no need for Ina or any other company to have all the politicians sitting there. And which is the most exposed to pressure that is negative from all political options. It's the MPs of the Parliament right now. That's why I advocated knowing that even when we were in power, it wasn't like that. But that's no reason not to do something that we're all gonna start sticking to and it's gotta start one day. He advocated that none of the parliamentary deputies should be on the boards of directors. And thus, to give a strong stove that will be respected by all governments in the future, that we will give the experts and also politicians outside the ranks of parliamentary deputies, to do their part and to try to do everything they can in the framework of the supervision that the state has entrusted them with. But it's always the first in a row in any grade that's negative that's just moving from us Parliamentarians. And that's why let's not tell each other now you've had a chance when you were in power to do it I admit my mistake but why someone else makes a mistake on the same thing. Let us change this very attitude, and it will bind me and whoever suggested it tomorrow, or who agreed with it today. It's better to do it today than to open the same thing tomorrow. So what we're really talking about is this one. And neither. There is no reason to have her, and therefore, as with the long-term law on preventing conflicts of interest, let's not let that law be a dead letter on paper, let him live and gain the effects that are expected of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22040	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22041	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. I would also like to say that I support this possibility to allow, as part of the list of companies of special state interest, government officials to join supervisory committees or other bodies. It is in any case a right that the ruling coalition can consume. But there is also responsibility for the ruling coalition. So is the obligation. The same model we had in the former coalition government simply found a strange situation with 400 thousand unemployed, with 180 thousand workers who received salaries. We've encountered huge losses in state-owned enterprises, a major indifference which is also generated mainly by non-payment of the state system. There was a court and agony of the tourist sector for 4 years more effectively, yet in one part thanks to such a policy of the former government, there is no more loss in state-owned enterprises. The rate of development is secured and globally from 4 to 5%, and what is very important is that a strong investment cycle happened on the insolvency we forgot completely and completely. It is important to say that there is also a consolidated service in the privatisation fund, so this proposal can be before us. I personally was on the control board of the Croatian Post Bank we found a loss of 8 hundred million kuna which some strange channels disappeared from the bank. Today I think she's completely rehabilitated. I think it can play a significant role in the financial market in Croatia. And it will probably play out especially if we take into account the way in...Plats are thanks to the agreement with the international monetary fund recently limited by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. And according to the credit-approval model, the same thing as the possibility of a debt. We specifically consulted the local self-government in the privatisation fund especially with those of the local companies that were dislocated from the metropolis. And that was one good model. I hope the same thing happens this time. Something about a list. The list is wide-ranging we have 270 companies, let's consult already without them. Because they went into bankruptcy, or that they were bought on the market. The list is interesting because here are the societies that have a significant impact on the media, here is Vesnik. Here's Free Dalmatia. There are also societies that are already privatised twice, and again supported and beyond. Like Valpopo. However, I should still be a little controversial about this edali being on the list of constitutions. The institutions like Croatian waters don't. Maybe it shouldn't have been. However, we forget that Croatian waters have a significant porphyle in their composition because they have entered the ownership structure under municipal companies. Cities and municipalities. That's why the model was supposed to be found so that at least part of the service facility would be here on the list. Because here we have local utility companies, where Croatia is run by owners, 40 and even up to 50% with assets that move several dozen million kunas. Whoever's handling it, I'm not sure, and apparently according to this list, I'm still not gonna be sure. I'm also making an observation that there's no daughter's company here on the list. Which was founded by parent companies, and often they are in mixed ownership. So many state-owned companies have these daughters' societies and abroad, they're managed by them, they have supervisory boards, and they're not listed here. These are notables, which are limited-response countries that have a completely different service than the state and it would be good for us to know what societies they are here as well. And so is who's on their monitoring boards. We talked yesterday about the former government's responsibility for the Victoria Lenco case, about providing guarantees more precisely, and I wonder if these people we're going to allow to be appointed to supervisory committees and to comply with the provisions of the Company Act, where in the event of failure in business, the law says that members of the Supervisory Boards correspond even with their own assets. It is likely that we should give quite precise answers at this time so that we in the congregation can answer any questions we may have. Of course, we will also have to have full responsibility to the newly created pension fund and there will be the most difficult members of the Supervisory Board, because with 4.5 billion kuna portfolios, it will be a very difficult task to pay back 20 billion kuna for pensioners. We support, i.e. the personal possibility of the involvement of state officials in supervisory committees, but provided that the same profession is included, provided that local self-government and others are consulted and that it is generally an exception, not a rule. We would not like to have a situation like Croatia's Telekom where we have a 49% portfolio, and this Croatian Telekom has lost an adjective "Croatian". This Croatian Telekom or Telekom still has one monopoly contract with another monopoly in Croatia, where we pay the most expensive telephony prices in Europe, where after a minute we pay the full price for the next minute. It should probably be us who decide on the possibility of such appointments and who gets feedback from members of such supervisory committees, which they have taken to protect the state interest. This is obvious that citizens suffer damage and material damage. Every day that impulse is telephoned to them in their pocket directly through an account for phone calls made. We would not want to claim in advance that it will be so in the future, however, I would like to stress that the state official has the right, but also that he has the responsibility if he is on the Supervisory Board. And finally, something about a conditionally spoken term for a portfolio of one, two, and up to 25%, respectively. I think it was also a programme of the former government, and the current government programme that says that this sector should be rapidly privatised whether it is located in the Privatisation Fund or elsewhere, so I also support the view that it should not appoint government officials in those societies where the portfolio is negligible and below is 25%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22042	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Matušić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22043	Mr. Pecek incorrectly claimed that the former government consulted in privatising local self-government. That fellow's completely incorrect. I will only give you an example of the privatisation of the sale of the Hotel "Excelsior" in Dubrovnik. Not that you haven't asked local self-government, but you have ignored the opinion of your minister who was in charge of this particular area, that is, this area. Therefore, you completely bypassed and denied the opinion of your tourism minister at the time of Mrs. Pave Zupan-Ruskovic, who opposed the sale without saying that local self-government opposed the sale. You haven't consulted her at all. So your government didn't consult local self-government at all on this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22044	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, honourable representative Željko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22045	Your Honor, Mr. President, so obviously this is where it works that the gentleman was correcting...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22046	Don't throw away any articles! I guess I know what I'm supposed to ask and that you should and give it to me, why do you always want to, if you're going to run a session, then run for President of the Parliament. What's the correction? What article of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22047	209.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22048	There's no 209. In 209 we've already said a hundred times that it's just a call to an institute that makes it possible to correct an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22049	Yeah, that's exactly what I want to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22050	Which one?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22051	That's exactly what I want to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22052	What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22053	If the gentleman hadn't even corrected the incorrect assumption. Of course there's something I want to say about that, but you haven't been following up on the exposure, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22054	You can't, because it's not what I say, it's what the Rules of Procedure says. Thank you. Nevenka Majdenić rectification of the incorrect allegations. I didn't write it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22055	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Inaccurate quote by Mr. Pecek about "Walpova" d.d. Mr. Pecek would like a sensation around "Valpova", but unfortunately for him, "Valpovo" is no longer a sensation such as the sensation of parliamentary elections when his and the coalition party leaders came to Valpovo with false and dishonest promises.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22056	A single claim has been corrected. Krunoslav Markovinović, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22057	Mr. President, it is also an incorrect claim by Mr. Pecek about the situation in the companies that he listed, and probably incorrect about their recovery, because if they did anything, they covered it up very well. It's also incorrect and strange information, that's what I'm saying. In the Privatisation Fund...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22058	Strange claims are not intended to be corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22059	Inaccurate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22060	No, no. Strange claims don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22061	Okay, well, that's weird. Inaccurate. I said incorrect. We controlled local self-government at the Privatisation Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22062	That's what you're saying now, Mr. Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22063	I'm sure it's incorrect. That's not true. Because if...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22064	It's supposed to be fixed. So, my people, I beg you, correct the false quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22065	Well, that can't be. Look, this can't be an exact allegation, because they controlled it through the State's Attorney's Office, Crime Police, wherever HDZ was in power, and certainly not in the Privatisation Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22066	Thank you very much. Do not comment but correct the incorrect quote if you think so. Dear Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22067	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This law is a consequence of the realisation of the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. This Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, as known in the Parliament, was first submitted by the Croatian Party of Rights, our Club of Representatives. And just as it is known, this law has experienced that in the final version it will be done together with the Ministry of Justice in the past meeting of the Croatian Parliament. I personally represented the HSP Club in the joint working group that ended that version of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest which went into the parliamentary procedure until the first half of June last year. In this version of the law which was then adopted by a joint working group, the Ministry of Justice of the Croatian Government together with the HSP Club, there was no mention of companies, or companies of particular national interest, and because both HSP representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Justice, but also independent experts felt that officials should not simply be present in supervisory committees, regardless of whether it is private or state-owned, and simply because all of these companies are equated on the market. There are no specific market regulations for companies in majority state-owned or minority state-owned companies, all companies are the same, and therefore it is entirely irrelevant whether the debtor is allegedly a majority private or majority state-owned company because they all operate together on the same market. So the conflict of interest that arises on that occasion is exactly the same, and therefore we, too, of the HSP and the Ministry of Justice, felt that these provisions should simply not be in the law. After that, our Law comes before the Croatian government the former comes to the Parliament and we expect it in the Assembly to be a regulation that officials can indeed be in certain companies of particular national interest. I will remind you of another detail, which is that the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the parliamentary procedure was put on the initiative and on the request of the Croatian Employers' Association and that one of the key requirements of the Croatian Employers' Association was that officials should not be in the supervisory committees of any company, it was the key requirements of the Croatian Employers' Association. And so I repeat myself to the Ministry and we in HSP as the initiator, therefore we were simply surprised by the fact that the former government put it into the law and we are even more surprised by the fact that the current ruling majority was then on the side of the HSP and was surprised by that provision and today that ruling majority of the dead agrees with the realization of this law on preventing conflicts of interest through this list of trade societies of particular national interest. When it comes to trade societies of particular national interest, I would ask nicely for someone in this House of Commons to define what a special national interest is, which is why societies are of particular national interest. You know what I'm going to tell you, this formulation of societies of special national interest is actually identical to the formulations of the times of Boris Kitic and Edward Cardell when there were companies of federal interest, enterprises of republican interest, companies of municipal interest, so we could at least change that formulation. What is listed here as an argument where man should be is that he should be in societies where the state owns at least 25%, whatever that actually means. This only speaks of whether under the company law under 25% of ownership there is also a member of the Supervisory Board. For us in HSP, it's definitely stronger to have 10% of the shares of General Motors than to have 50% of the shares in a utility company or a hotel house that went bankrupt. This should be taken into account here, however, it is all equalised here and it is established that there are societies of particular interest, I do not know what interest it is and that on behalf of the Croatian State it cannot be defended by an authorised representative of the Croatian Parliament, or the Croatian Government, so the Croatian State, but must be a parliamentary representative or minister or secretary of state. Especially if that man is an expert in the job rather than a representative or secretary of state who is being installed there by the Parliament. It's perfectly clear if it's some kind of trade society that's involved in growing fish that's been living here in the Parliament for very few people who worked in mariculture. But they might be able to eat fish. So these are the things that are clouded in this Decision, we in HSP believe that this is another completely false step that further derogates and diversifies the main initiative that the HSP has put forward in its initial proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest I repeat on a very determined wish, on the express request of the Croatian Employers' Association. That officials are not on boards and that is why we are really appalled by the government's stubbornness to insist on implementing a completely false concept. I find this decision completely unnecessary and guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22068	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Antun Kapraljevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22069	I would correct the alleged respected counterpart Tadic when he said he was surprised that the ruling majority agreed to implement such a bad law. I claim that the ruling majority did not agree to implement such a bad law because it does not implement the law that you have proposed, which it has proposed, but the ruling majority of this first law has changed and is now implementing its law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22070	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Given our pace of work, given what we are expected to do, and given the numerous obligations of the MPs they have on Friday, it would be good to put the vote tomorrow at noon, so everyone prepare for 12 hours. Not electronically, but electronically. Dear representative Katarina Fuchek here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22071	Mr. President, since a lot of things have already been said I'm going to try to sum up somehow from the debates that have already been held. Something that is most important in this problem, which is two levels of problem, or two under the topic that could be drawn. The first is whether officials can participate in the supervisory boards of companies owned by a state of more than 25% stakes and the second is the level of problem or question whether this is an appropriate regulation that actually corresponds to the state interest or to a special state interest. As it has been quite questionable here, or asked whether it is necessary for state officials to represent the state interest, then I will, in some ways, first and foremost look back. Any question of the owner is his owning issue is also a fundamental question and the question of the state is whether he knows how difficult this property is in capital and who represents and how this property represents, or whether quality control is being carried out over the management of state-owned companies. There were situations and this situation was described in the report of the state audit that the state does not know which companies it has, that it does not know how much these companies earn, whether these companies have any obligation on the basis of dividends because they are also transformed into stock companies and to participate in the foundation of ownership in the state budget. There were a lot of discrepancies, so certain decisions were prescribed on the distribution of the share of profits and then not supervised. Which means that certain companies were paying money into certain accounts without the state budget control knowing where these money was, where those money came from, and with what purpose they were paid. This refers to the state's lack of care for ownership and the portfolio with which it is available. It has one sure-fired and another political message as to how organized the state is. If that means he does not care about his portfolio to ensure the conditions for other non-performing entities to operate. Since it's not even simple, but something has to start on the basis of this need, it means that the addition of this law has started in the list of companies that we have here and the foundation of whose list was owned, ownership as the only element to begin with. So, ownership because the state has an interest in knowing whether these companies are successful and business success is achieved in achieving the objectives set. As I used to say earlier, the objectives of one company can be external, they can be internal, they can be set differently, all because of the activities that a company has established and operates for. If the objectives of the State for successful business are, it certainly benefits because it meets and receives some means to meet those needs covered by the state budget, which are the needs of schooling, health care, pensions, etc. while the employees themselves have their reasons for receiving the salary, having a job and then having met the goal. So this country has as much interest as any owner. It is difficult now to establish a special state interest because it does not have to be visible in the share of ownership. Here's an example yesterday in the discussion of Victor Lenc that the then government rated the Victoria Lenac shipyard of special state interest because it also had a special state treatment. But we will not now return to whether the government was successful in its assessment or not but in any case other shipyards did not have the same treatments. So, the government, according to its own priorities, according to the economic project, can assess, according to the strategy, what is now of state interest. Whether this can be regulated specifically by regulated regulations would be allowed to be discussed. I certainly agree that once upon a time special state interests were known, but they were otherwise satisfied and certainly no place for such regulation in one market economy. As for the staffing of the supervisory boards, it is a constantly open topic and it is being discussed a lot, however, they cannot agree to access it in such a way as it joined in 2000 to remove anything that smells of HDZ either professionally, unprofessionally, either as such or as such, but generally has no access. I don't think there should be any more discussion in this sense, because in addition to political staffing, there are certainly other ways of staffing where it takes into account expertise, ability, competence, and it is very easy to check and I don't think it will be preferred by officials to participate in supervisory committees because it certainly isn't the most qualitative approach in everything but certainly must be made possible in the part where they can participate and represent the state interest because they have the most quality information and perhaps the most common and qualitative can be where the most qualitative problem can be solved. I think there was a spread of the subject here. Surely every point can be used by who gets what, who inherits what, who gives what, but it always has to start from something. This is a good start for profiling one problem, one state-of-the-art state-of-the-art, in government portfolios, in state-owned enterprises, and also for a further privatisation strategy that must also be done in quality. It is better to do so and further see what will happen, whether the list is adequate or not, it is certainly not static but dynamic, because the market itself is dynamic and in this sense it will certainly be possible for further debates but I support it because this is a step towards something, so far it has not been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22072	Thank you. And the esteemed representative of Ivica Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22073	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22074	Excuse me, we have a replica. Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22075	Your Honor, Mr. President, it was really not my idea to obstruct something, but I think it's important for a hundred times to say it because it seems to me that Mr. Fuchek's exposure can make him feel guilty that this list wants to get rid of much more important things. It seems to me that, at least that's how it seemed to me from the debate and by my colleagues' reactions, I don't think I'm even the only one who can't solve the issue of managing a government portfolio that has other mechanisms in the country. Motivation for the adoption of this list is to establish those companies of particular national interest which deserve to be treated as exceptional in which state officials can participate. And the whole dispute over whether this list is too wide or not is exactly relevant to the criteria because I am the property criterion of the state share in a particular company cannot be sufficient and should not be sufficient to treat them as companies of particular national interest. The whole debate only arises in seeing that these so many companies are important that they have an interest in the participation of state officials directly through the supervisory boards. This does not exclude, of course, that other companies of state interest with them and control and manage through other institutions which they have both at the Privatisation and Ministry Fund and ultimately through the debate here in the Croatian Parliament. I don't think we should, with one relatively implementing act that this is an ambition to solve bigger national problems because it simply won't be possible and we're going to ruin the law that we want to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22076	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Katarina Fuček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22077	Mr. President! My colleague Lugarić, I did not say that, or you freely interpreted it in a way that you think is convenient. In any case, I said that something had to start because so far there was no census and the government had no opportunities but on the basis of ownership because ownership is the basis on which you can set a particular interest, the interest of the owner. The interest of the owner and if the state participates in this, it also has its own interest. He needs to know what he has, what it's worth, who he's going to control, who he's going to manage, and in that sense, it means whether he can meet the goals for which a company is even founded. Surely today that list may look different, but right now he was the only one possible to come to the Parliament to meet the conditions for entering the law needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22078	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ivica Clem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22079	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm just going to take a few brief sentences in favour of making this conclusion, because it is necessary and necessary that we, as responsible government officials, take care of the state property right now because it is both our obligation and our right and we think there is nothing disputed about it. Why is the list like this? I think it's clear from what I've already said. Of course, the list will be shorter after privatisation is completed in companies where the state has part of ownership, but until the process is completed it is necessary for the ruling structure to oversee between the other and the property owned by the state. Every good master must behave in a responsible manner. In this case, regardless of what some will think, it is certainly allowed to think differently and can, the interest of the Croatian Democratic Community is also exactly the coalition that is in power today in the state to oversee the ownership stake of the state because it is responsible. And that's exactly why I personally support the adoption of this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22080	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the next point. Proposal for a decision on a list of companies of particular national interest. The debate on the text of the decision is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask Secretary of State Antu Babic to be shown about certain amendments. Do you have it with you? Yes, you do. First, Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22082	Amendment One, we accept, because it's about...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22083	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the law, an amendment to the decision. Amendment 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22084	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22085	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Decision. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on a list of companies of particular national interest. Please come in. Please, come on! I see there's more lights up. Please vote. The result? I find that with 80 votes for, 6 abstentions and 31 against the decision being taken in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted and in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Law, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Croatian Parliament's professional service is authorised to carry out, together with the Proposer, a revision of the decision on the list of companies of special state interest prior to publication in "The National Journal". Please come in. You're welcome to vote. The result? I find that the conclusion was made with 101 votes for, 6 abstentions and 9 against. Proposal for a decision to appoint a president and a member of the Nuclear Security Council. Proposer of the Government, which is in accordance with Article 25. The nuclear safety law submitted a proposal. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, respected representative Kresimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22087	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, here are a few words about the reasons for the formation of the Nuclear Security Council and the objectives and tasks of this body that should function as an independent advisory body of the Croatian Parliament. The Nuclear Safety Act, published in National No. 173 since 2003, defines the objectives and tasks of this body. Article 25 defines the tasks of the Nuclear Security Council as the advisory body of the Croatian Parliament where it states that the tasks of that body are related to the assessment of the state of nuclear safety in the Republic of Croatia. This Council will carry out the following tasks in the following period: Number 1. They will give an opinion on the proposals for sublaws to be adopted under the provisions of this law and other sublaws necessary for its implementation. Secondly, the Nuclear Security Council will give proposals and opinions to the Croatian Parliament on the development strategy of nuclear security, the organisation of nuclear security in the Republic of Croatia, international cooperation in the field of nuclear security, and in particular on the accession and implementation of inter-state contracts and agreements in that area, as well as on all other aspects of nuclear security in the Republic of Croatia. The important tasks of the Nuclear Security Council will also concern the regular submission of the annual report to the Croatian Parliament on the state of nuclear security in the Republic of Croatia. The importance of strengthening the nuclear security system should not be particularly stressed in today's conditions...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22088	Just a minute, just a minute. We will have to introduce a device to the Croatian Parliament that will disable phone calls with mobile phones. Why does the persistent part of the MPs and MPs not adhere to the provision not to use cell phones in the Croatian Assembly? We'll get the device. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22089	Okay. The importance of strengthening the nuclear security system should not be particularly highlighted in today's conditions and circumstances of global terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction of particularly nuclear materials and technologies. Interdisciplinary activities related to the work of this advisory body also required the interdisciplinary of members of the Council proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The area of nuclear security in the Republic of Croatia will be as I have said and reiterated, particularly and above all, the control of the proliferation of nuclear materials and technologies and equipment in a broader sense of preventing the non-proliferation of these materials and technologies. Recently in this House, we talked about the Double Use Act and all those obligations that lie ahead of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and its bodies in order to monitor the proliferation or transfer of dual technology goods, especially nuclear materials and technologies, as high as possible and more reliable. Furthermore, the area of nuclear security is also linked to the monitoring of the safety of nuclear existence in the environment of the Republic of Croatia as well as to the identification of alert measures for a possible case of nuclear disasters and accidents. Furthermore, the area of nuclear security in the Republic of Croatia is related to implementation as I have said international obligations and numerous international contracts and international, international cooperation with relevant organisations. Many other countries also have similar institutions in that or some other form, and for this reason, it is certainly very simple that the HDZ Club supports the founding of the Nuclear Security Council as well as the Nuclear Security Institute, which will act within the Croatian Government and we believe that in the coming period these bodies will contribute to increasing the level of nuclear security in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22090	Thank you, dear colleague. A respected colleague, Tonci Tadic, is coming up on behalf of the HSP's Club of Representatives. Here's a colleague of Tadic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22091	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Parliament is finally discussing the appointment of presidents and members of the Nuclear Security Council. I say finally because to this day, Croatia was one of the few if not the only member of the International Atomic Energy Agency that did not have its Nuclear Security Council. It will seem irrelevant to some, however, to the extremely important condition of international conventions concerning nuclear safety, in particular, the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and the Convention on the Safe Management of Nuclear Fuel and Radioactive Waste. So, I repeat, Croatia has already received lots of packages in international circles precisely because we were one of the few countries that did not have its national nuclear security council. The Convention on Nuclear Safety makes it very clear that there must be an independent body from the Government to regulate these matters. Similarly, as is the case with the Government, the Independent Council for Telecommunications, the Energy Regulation Council, the Council for Electrical Media, and so on and so forth, exists in all countries by the government of an independent nuclear security council. This council consists of experts in the area and, independently of the government, it assesses the procedural governmental ministries and governmental bodies, primarily taking into account the protection of the public interest, hence the health of citizens. And from another old-fashioned interest in upholding all possible international agreements and conventions concerning nuclear security. What I can safely say is that Croatia was certainly a single country that negotiated the fate and decommissionation of a nuclear that was co-owner without the existence of its nuclear security council. Slovenians, unlike us, have their own body to regulate these issues, it is about the Slovenian body concerning nuclear security. And that body was actively involved in the negotiations. The Slovenian side of the negotiations was thus part of, the environment minister, the energy minister, but also a representative of the Slovenian regulatory body for nuclear security. Who watched over during the negotiations. Here you can get on the Internet finely downloaded how this body in Slovenia works. How the Office for Nuclear Safety and its Council works in Slovenia. In contrast, Croatia entered the negotiations with Krško and Slovenia on Krško without its nuclear security council, which would watch over the quality of the agreement itself. So, without any doubt, I can say that this body existed, an agreement with Slovenia on the Krško nuclear power plant would not be what it is now. This can be guaranteed in view of the composition of the people who are proposed here, in order to be respected experts and independent people and cannot believe that these people would allow the signing and ratification of such an agreement as has been signed and ratified. So I repeat, Croatia was the only country that negotiated the fate of nuclear in its power without the existence of a national nuclear security council. That would watch over the protection of public interest and respect for nuclear security conventions. This body has yet another very important role, which is that this is the only body that can approve the arrival of foreign ships on a nuclear drive. Whether it's nuclear submarines or nuclear aircraft carriers. In this case, the approval for their half-life is not issued as so far by the Minister of Defence, but is being consulted by a government independent body that protects public interest. Doing so is the importance of the independence of the people who are here, and their integrity. They judge whether a nuclear submarine will eventually come into the inner water wrestling and anchor in one of our ports, knowing about the problems that have arisen so far and the risks that exist. I've already mentioned here a case that appeared in the British press about the problems that occurred in 2000 on a nuclear submarine... to Gibraltar. [[/The speaker speaks English doesn't understand.]] But we're also aware it's in July 2001. Dubrovnik had this accident to host two American nuclear submarines. Their stay in Dubrovnik waters was approved by the then defence minister. And in our court, there is no respect for the procedure which must otherwise be respected, and that is that even the last word of it should have been said by the Council of Nuclear Security, but this council of ladies and gentlemen at that time but it wasn't. So in several key situations, we did not have the body that envisioned the relevant conventions in the nuclear talks in Krsko and in the until now permitting the stay of nuclear ships, nor did all the prodigals follow. It was the government that made the decisions. And I repeat in the conventions, that is why the government is predicted to have an independent body, which will protect the public interest and warn the government of violations of international conventions. Of course, this national nuclear security council has another very important role to play, and this is a strict implementation of the nuclear non-proliferation agreement ratified by the Croatian Parliament at the beginning of the last call. We have equally ratified the international agreement on the ban on nuclear attempts. All of this commits Croatia to prevent the transport of nuclear material, i.e. radioactive material that can be used to make dirty bombs across its borders. Croatia, if it wants to be an active participant in the inter-narona fight against terrorism, must do everything to stop the flow of unauthorized, illegal flow of nuclear material, or material that can be used to make nuclear bombs at its borders. In other words, radioactive substances that can be used to make so-called products. dirty bombs where classical explosives defrost irradiated radioactive material, for example, polluting fields, water sources, seas, etc. The fact is, however, that Croatia has not dealt with it at its borders so far, because nobody in Croatia really has a mechanism at all, and so far we have no one to deal with it. To this day, we cannot claim with certainty what has been passed over our borders. Nor can we say with certainty that something has not been transmitted at all. So the responsibility to this body is extremely large, and that is why in the HSP, we are pleased to welcome the moment that this body is finally before formation. He's got a lot of responsibility ahead of him. We believe that this body to the Croatian Parliament as well as all other bodies formed by the Assembly would have to periodically submit reports of its work. And that, on the basis of these reports, they may, as appropriate, correct the existing law on nuclear safety, which has also been passed too late in our court. But better late than never. So with these thoughts, we give full support to this composition of the nuclear security council.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22092	Thank you very much. Whether or not the Prime Minister wants a final. No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this motion tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22093	Proposal for a Decision appointing the President and members of the Nuclear Security Council. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Please come in. Please, go ahead and vote. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, with 109 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 5 against a decision on the appointment of presidents and members of the Nuclear Security Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22094	We move to; - Proposal for a decision on the resolution of members of the competition council; the proposal for a decision was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 31. The Law on the Protection of Competition whether a representative of the Government wishes to further explain the proposal. No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any charges to discuss. Anybody want to sign up? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We're going to lie about the motion for a decision by Mr. We're going to do it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22095	The next item is the Proposal for a decision to resolve a member of the Competition Protection Council. The debate is closed. Please engage. Please, let's vote. I'm asking for a result. I find that with 105 votes for, 10 abstentions and 3 against the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22096	We move to the next item of the agenda; - Final draft law amending and supplementing the law on courts, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 158; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You've received the motion for an act in the box. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The word is from Mrs Bagic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22097	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Let me just briefly explain and explain why these amendments are proposed and the amendments to the law on courts. This amendment and the addition of the law on courts is proposed in order to bring it into line or better put into practice with the law amending and supplementing the laws on the obligations and rights of civil servants. Who entered the ensuing in February of this year. These amendments and additions to this law, including the state official, become the secretary of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. However, this law, namely its amendments and additions, is not prescribed for the appointment and resolution of the Registrar of the Supreme Court, as a state official. Probably because this law does not seem to be the case for other government officials either. However, this has created a void and the rest has been disabled in fact by filling or appointing a secretary as a state official. This is therefore proposed to be done precisely by amending and supplementing the Law on Courts which are otherwise prescribed an internal body and a status position, inter alia, and officials in the Supreme Court. Otherwise, until now, the secretary of the Supreme Court had the status of a civil servant. Therefore, this law now proposes to regulate the status issue of the Supreme Court's secretary, now as a state official, according to amendments and additions to the Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials. It is therefore proposed by this law to appoint a secretary to the Supreme Court, in the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Court. Its rights and obligations are also determined as do other state officials. In view of the fact that the Supreme Court, as I have already said, had the position of a civil servant, it is determined that if the President of the Supreme Court does not appoint him as a secretary, but as a state official, he has the right to be deployed to another post that corresponds to his professional preparation, i.e. another civil servant. In addition, according to the adoption of the Law on the Procedure of Order and Government of July of this year for the other civil servants here, the right is in fact determined that, in the event of the appointment of the new President of the Supreme Court, he has the right to request that the current secretary, as so far as the state official, should place his mandate at his disposal, but in that case, if the President, the new President of the Supreme Court does not appoint him or does not approve him, then the Secretary has the right to be seconded as a civil servant. So brief and important about these changes and additions. They are limited, regarding only the status issue of the Supreme Court secretary as a state official. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22098	Thank you, Mrs. Bagic. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Justice Committee, dear colleague Ivas. Here you go, colleague Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22099	Your Honor. At the 10th session held on 23 September, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the law on courts with the Final Proposal, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by its act of 9 September 2004. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. At the same time, a representative of the proposer informed the committee that the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Obligations and Rights of State Officials and the Law on the procedure of handing over power to a state official became the Secretary of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Subject amendments to the Law on Courts shall determine who shall appoint the Registrar of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, which shall be the rights and obligations of the Registrar of the Court, as the State's official, and the status in the case of non-nomination, resolution and others shall be prescribed. In the debate, the Committee members supported the adoption of the proposal in question, and it was individually pointed out that it was necessary to review the provision of Article 3. The proposal for a law, which stipulates that a civil servant who performs the tasks of the Supreme Court's secretary in the event that the President of the Supreme Court does not appoint him as a secretary, should be deployed to another post corresponding to his professional preparation, since such a solution is not offered to other state officials. The opinion of the Committee member that the President of the Supreme Court should appoint or resolve the Supreme Court's secretary on the basis of the agreement of the General Meeting of the Supreme Court, rather than an opinion delivered. Following the debate, the Justice Committee unanimously decided to support the Croatian Assembly's adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22100	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Committee. We're moving on to a debate. I'm opening a debate. The first order is, as usual in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, representatives' clubs. On behalf of HNS representative PGS, respected colleague Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, colleague Nikola.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22101	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, we have yet another law that is actually mandatory to comply with previously passed regulations, and in that light, of course, we have nothing else to do but accept such a law. It's about increasing the number of government officials at the expense of civil servants, which is of course neither popular nor commendable, but that's how it's already decided and we don't need to talk about it today. I would only draw attention to two aspects of this law. One is the amendment and addition of the Law on Courts. One is that the state, that the name of the state official, his place, is the secretary of the Supreme Court, and is appointed by the President of the Supreme Court, on his own, with an opinion delivered, etc., but therefore he appoints him himself. Somehow, the text of the law gives the impression that it is not the Supreme Court's secretary, it is the Supreme Court's secretary, so something in that sense should change, or a formulation by which the Supreme Court secretary is appointed or his name. What Mr. President of the Justice Committee said also seems to me that it should not consider the position of a man who is now acting in that capacity, who is a civil servant, who will, of course, remain a civil servant, so a man will not be left without a job if his job becomes an official, however, in the next amendment, a person who comes to the post of state official after he stops being a state official, you want to call it a privilege or a deserved reward, an opportunity to become a civil servant. I don't see any special logic. Of course, the whole question is not whether the law must be passed, it is not doubtful whether the HNS will be for him. It will be for him, but we think it would be much better if they tried to change these two aspects of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22102	On behalf of the Social Democratic Party representative club, respected counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22103	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts and not only for the reasons detailed here by the State Secretary, but also for the harmonisation of the Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials, where the Registrar of the Supreme Court has also obtained the status of a state official, but also in accordance with the Law on Post-Supposal of Authorities. However, we also point to another important and important fact, namely the principle of government division. We all know that, but sometimes we also add when it comes to the judicial authority that in the Republic of Croatia the power is based on the principle of the division of power: the legislative, executive and judicial which, therefore, also implies mutual verification of the holder of the authority prescribed by the Constitution. So, separation, but also mutual control. And I don't think there really should be anything controversial about it. But whenever it comes to the judicial authority here and here we hear the thought that this essentially means increasing government officials. I think the question is in place then and the moment the Secretary of Parliament and the Secretary of Government became a state official. It's not a question that needs to be asked at the moment when it comes to the judicial authority. We're too late to ask that question. If it is already undeniable that it is the Secretary of Parliament and that the Secretary of Government that they are state officials, then by the very logic of things, regardless of the specificities of each of them, therefore both the judicial, so-called executive, and the legislative authorities, wherever possible it is necessary to do the parallel precisely to ensure their constitutional position. However, it is often forgotten, and therefore I say the SDP Club supports the adoption of this proposal, because, in any case, as formally as it means, it is also formally, but also from the form it passes, it is later and certain contents which undoubtedly mean both the affirmation and should be meant and in every respect the further affirmation of the judicial authority, because only such a judicial authority which is affirmed, which both the legislative and executive powers give and a special position in society and their important social role, and therefore never has such a relationship guarantees both greater responsibility and that branch of government, therefore, the judicial authorities. I also note the provisions of the existing Law on Courts that this would no longer happen to us by chance and, therefore, when it comes to the budget, about the rebalancing of the budget to add to the question of the judicial authority, because it is an executive's duty to ask the judicial authority before it comes to the Council for such an act. Only then, and it is one of the legal obligations, then we will see that this formal part and this formal method of harmonising equality, and the three authorities have both a real and meaningful meaning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22104	Please, nice. Dear counterpart Bošnjakovic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22105	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. This is indeed a short law that we actually comply with the Law on Courts with the Law on Officials, on civil servants. The HDZ Club will, of course, support this law and this law cannot say that anything dramatic and important in our judicial system is changing. This is a technical law that regulates the matter of the Supreme Court secretary. It is true, he gets the status of officials, not as he has been an official so far, and we believe that it is justified in view of the very expertise, the complexity of the jobs and the duties he performs. As regards the very way of appointing him, to be appointed by the President of the Court, we can really talk about ways, whether someone else, whether it should be consent or binding in fact the opinion of the General Court session, but in any case we feel that this proposed way is acceptable here, because the Supreme Court President represents the Supreme Court, represents the Supreme Court, and the secretary helps him to carry out the affairs of the judicial administration. And for all these reasons, he felt that this law, as well as the committees, was fully supported by the judiciary and the Legislative Committee, and our club would support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22106	Thank you very much, dear colleague. It's on behalf of the HSP Club, dear colleague Kovacevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22107	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I have to say that we at the HSP Club when we received the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts were happy to think that let us finally go to some important reform in order for the judicial authority to be a Croatian citizen, i.e. to become a service of Croatian citizens, we know what number of disputes are unresolved and everything else, and everything that bothers Croatian citizens. When we looked inside, we saw that it was basically nothing. He asked me immediately’ Tonci Tadic, if there was anything contained in the selection of court practitioners. No, she said Rose. Yeah, what's this all about? Here's the point, the law should be called the law on the election of the Supreme Court's secretary. So that's what the law should be called, is that's what the matter inside is contained, so once we've passed such a law, we put the name and last name of the man in order to settle this issue today. So let's make it right up to the end, 'cause we're the ones who put ourselves in a position to make a law for one man. For one man. We rightists can say this rightly because we are on the Committee on Legislatives, myself and here we have spoken, whether it will be necessary to amend the other laws because the Government has proposed the amendment to be included in the circle of officials, and we know how it was, the Secretary of the Supreme Court, the Registrar of the Constitutional Court, the Registrar of the Criminal Court, etc. I was told then, there is no need, everything is clear, because then I was saying that the Secretary of the Supreme Court is an official, so a court official, or a civil servant, as determined by the coefficients. So we're not doing anything big in the sense of justice, so we're going down here to the level that we're making changes and additions to one man's laws. For one man, we put a name and a last name, and we don't solve the most important things that we should solve, means that we make a full reform of the judiciary, that the judiciary be a service of Croatian citizens, and when, today, there were a lot of words about how we spend taxpayers' money. This is an eclectic example of how taxpayers' funds are spent. So from the government and everything else about one man's case, this is even worse than the Chachia case and the others that caused the law to change. He was like a cause, but this is a worse case for one man. So tell me who the man is, so the HSP Club will give the amendment to say that it's a choice, a law on the election of secretaries and that of the Supreme Court, that the President of the Supreme Court doesn't have to be tortured, that he doesn't have to collect opinions and that we don't have to pass the law in this way. Thank you very much. And this is embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22108	Please, nice. On behalf of the HSS Club, dear colleague Vresk. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Apparently, the HSS Club will also support this law and it is not a problem that this law really needed to be brought into line with the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials. We know that in this law and the secretary of the Supreme Court is listed as a new state official. Perhaps it hurts a little that the same thing was to be done with the Secretary of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia and with the Secretary, yes, the High Violent and High Trade Court Secretary. However, there is another small problem. It is mentioned in the explanation and that is what little really bothers that this law is in line with the Law on the procedure of handing over authorities. The Act on the procedure of handing over authorities in its Article 1 states: This law regulates the procedure of handing over authorities to establish restrictions on the powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in the further text of the Government, from the date of the parliamentary elections to the entry into force of office, etc., etc. The same law lists all state officials, although the secretary of the Supreme Court is a state official, but it is a closed number of state officials who make mandates available and these are: the Deputy Secretary of State, State Secretary, Ministers of State, Assistant Ministers, Head of Government, Head of State Administration Organisations, Head of State Treasury, Director of Government Agency and Directors of Administration appointed by the Government. They are therefore officials who, in the sense of the Procedure Act, make their mandates available to the authorities under that law. Of course, in this law in amendments to the Law on Courts, it is not stated that the President of the Supreme Court is going through this electoral cycle because it cannot even go through, we know why, and it is not clear, even though the text of the law does not mention it, which is why our Law on the procedure is being handed over by the authorities because the Registrar of the Supreme Court has absolutely nothing to do with that act. But I agree with the fact that in the case of the election of a new, or the appointment of a new Supreme Court President, he has the right to influence in any case which person he will be, and of course, with the mandatory opinion of the General Court, but this has nothing to do with the Law on the procedure of handing over power and please don't write such things in an explanation anymore, because it does come out, even though the text of the law does not show, that such laws involve the executive authority in an independent judicial authority which, under the Constitution, must be completely independent. Of course the HSS Club will support this law, it really has to be harmonised, but it just bothers these facts that are written in an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22110	Now it's my turn, but since there's no vice president or president to replace me, then we'll give the word to my colleague Tomljanovic, and I guess someone's gonna come and replace me. ... Well, then there'll be a break. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's a colleague of Tomljanović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22111	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here in the front row and at the beginning of my presentation, I'll look back at two things we've had a chance to hear from distinguished colleagues in previous exhibitions. Thus, this law or the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts neither increases nor decreases the number of government officials, as it is a closed number set out in some other regulations. These amendments and amendments to the law determine something completely different. And the other thing I want to point out in the introduction is that no law nor law is written for only one man, and we should not put this House in such a position that we pass regulations, laws based on the Government, for only one person, what is said by name and last name, at least I don't share such an opinion in view of the essence of these changes. The amendment and addition of the Law on Courts refers to specific provisions in the internal structure of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, namely Chapter IV. The Supreme Court as the highest court in the Republic of Croatia, which is based on Article 118. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia plays an important role, so it ensures uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens. These amendments and additions should be directly linked to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, which entered into force in February 2004 and which the Registrar of the Supreme Court is also a state official, namely the person subject to the provisions of the cited regulation. New articles proposed by amendments and additions, first of all, I mean Articles 32b and 32b, to appoint the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, so the Registrar of the Court who assists the President of the Court in the conduct of the affairs of the judicial administration, of course. The procedure for the appointment and resolution of the Supreme Court's secretary as a state official now has been prescribed in a way that appoints and resolves the President of the Supreme Court in the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Court. I would also agree here with what we had the opportunity to hear, it was also controversial in the home work, not disputed, but it was the subject of a debate on the home working bodies, whether the opinion, whether or not to prescribe an opinion or consent as an institute that would, in a sense, make more binding on the person who is making the appointment, so in this case, the President of the Supreme Court, but in that sense, prevailed on the view that, in the specific situation of the legal solution, an opinion should be worked on. Furthermore, it is not necessary to mention in particular that, in accordance with the rules cited above, the Supreme Court's secretary as an official, of course, all rights and obligations, therefore both the rights and obligations of civil servants, and in this respect it is very interesting to observe those amendments to one and the other regulations in relation to the provisions of the Law on the procedure of the handover of the authorities. With this analysis that we had just heard before in front of an esteemed colleague on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, of course we should have what is said in mind, all that he said, because if it is the status of a state official, in this case the secretary in relation to the Law on the procedure of the handover of the authorities, the essence of this comparison and in the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is, in my opinion, in the regulation of the working legal status when it comes to the situation that the Secretary of State in office therefore having the status of a state official, that he may not be appointed to that office again, or in that capacity, and then of course belong to those rights of deployment within the scope of his professional equipment or professional arrangements of affairs that correspond to the tasks prescribed for the senior judicial advisor in court. Therefore, the legislation so far has determined the legal status of the Secretary of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia as a civil servant and, therefore, in those amendments and additions to the Law, it is justified to propose, of course, and to remove and delete Article 75(2) because of the fact that he is now a Supreme Court secretary, as I have already said, a state official. It's final. Subject changes and additions to the Law on Courts have followed in terms of harmonisation of legal provisions which not only determine who has the status or legal status of a state official in the Republic of Croatia but also those provisions which determine the rights and responsibilities of state officials. Accordingly, the amendments in question and the additions to the Law on Courts should absolutely be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22112	Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22113	Mr. President, my dear colleague, during the amendment and addition of the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials at the session of the Committee on Legislatives, I pointed out that what happened to us would happen, that we would have to amend the Law on Regular Courts, and then my representative, he was not a representative of the Ministry, said that he would not have to change, and unfortunately what happened was the worst, we are changing really the law for the sake of one man. This is about one man, possibly two if the current secretary is not appointed Secretary of the Supreme Court, so he's going to stay as a civil servant, or a court official, but basically this is a law on one man, and so I said, for simplicity, let's give a name and name to that man. And yet I say, for us rightists, it would have been far more appropriate if this had been the law on one reform and at least established the least criteria for selecting court practitioners, so that they knew the whole situation there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22114	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22115	I have to replicate to my colleague Kovacevic in a way that really is my opinion, I said "my opinion" that the law in this House cannot be written as a law of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Government, I hope never, ever, write for one person, for one man. Nor is this the case now in terms of amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, which regulates quite certainly the way in which it is appointed and resolved by the Registrar of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia after obtaining the status of a state official under the second regulation. I respect your opinion, respect and respect the opinion of the Croatian Party of Rights, I respect all that when we have passed these other regulations that colleagues, distinguished colleagues, have given me in the debate, but never, absolutely you personally or your club will convince me that this House, this House, is writing a regulation, that is to say, for one person only, one individual, one person, because it does not correspond absolutely to the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22116	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22117	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I myself support the need to adopt an amendment to the Law on Courts, and in order to comply with the need to comply with the legal system, in particular with the Law on the Obligations and Rights of State Officials, which provided for the establishment of an institute of State Secretary, i.e. the Registrar of the Supreme Court, as a state official. However, despite the position of the SDP Representatives Club, therefore, the club I belong to will support this bill, I personally will not be able to vote for it for several reasons. The first is, of course, a sphere of constitutional law. Others fall within the sphere of business nature. And in part three, it should be quite certain to say that, by my deep conviction, it goes into one part and actually the foundations of democratic principles. So first let me remind all of us to follow the Constitution in Article 44. The constitution explicitly states that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right under equal conditions to participate in public affairs and be admitted to public service. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the proposal to amend and supplement this Act, relating to the election, or the appointment of the Supreme Court secretary, does not provide for a public tender and does not in fact allow all citizens of this country, in accordance with their constitutional right to compete and participate in the procedure in order to be appointed to this post. Of course, provided that they meet all the other prescribed conditions required to meet those conditions. So, on equal terms. In this regard, I personally believe that this would violate the constitutional rights of other citizens of this country, not just possible advisers in a court that otherwise fulfils the conditions, so they can be candidates. However, there are a whole range of people who are both lawyers and who are outside the judiciary system, also meet these conditions and could also be appointed secretary. And in this respect, I believe that before this law is passed, it is necessary to comply with the provision of Article 44 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The second reason is the business nature and he predicts, as you see here, that this law be passed by emergency procedure. However, none of the reasons set out in Article 159 are relevant. The Rules of Procedure don't stand. It is neither the defence interest nor the other particularly justified state reasons, nor the prevention or elimination of major economic disturbances. It is simply a matter of the need to pass a law that will comply with the Law on State Officials and which will allow the possibility of actually being appointed in a legitimate and constitutional manner by the Registrar of the Supreme Court, and then, of course, in accordance with Article 75 of that same law, by the Registrar of the Trade Court, the Administrative Court, etc., not to list. And now there's actually one quite serious question opening up. First, it could have been done long ago, but such a change and addition. Second, nothing will happen if we do not adopt this Law by means of an emergency procedure but goes into the first reading. Except there will be a positive advantage. This will be sufficient reason or sufficient time to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia between the first and second readings. And to simply provide that this part relating to the terms, criteria and procedure of appointing the Supreme Court secretary as a state official is to be said to be the call for a tender, and that in that contest or ad, however, which will already appear, all the conditions and criteria for the person chosen will be fulfilled in order to be able to fulfil that duty. And then we will be able to make it quite clear to our citizens that we and this law have allowed everyone to be equal before the Constitution and allow everyone to access equal duties on equal terms. And that's something that seems to be discussing formalism at first sight, and it's a very, very serious thing because we're actually preventing something that can be done in practice, unfortunately, I'm not saying it's "will be," but it could happen to close or create a special closed circle and that practically only circulated by advisers within the justice system in certain judicial institutions actually as possible candidates for presidents, pardons, for the secretaries of the courts, the Supreme Court, or the Commercial Court, the Administrative Court, etc. And we wanted, not wanted in this respect we can get into a situation that, in fact, even personal acquaintances, not to say something deeper or friendships practically comes to the appointment of the Supreme Court secretary who will actually appoint the President of the Court. In such a situation, it is certainly avoided that objectiveisation of access to the procedure and the determination of the principle, i.e. the criteria that the secretary of the Moa has, which would certainly be ensured on the basis of the tender and which must comply with the constitutional provision in the end line. For all the reasons I've put out and spoken, I repeat again. I believe it is necessary to adopt an amendment to the law in order to comply with the legal system. I think we could bring this into line with the Constitution in a way that we can remove the emergency procedure and support this law in our first reading because until the second reading, this issue is brought together. And thirdly, I do not think that we could now adopt this Law by an urgent procedure because it would then obviously be contrary to the provision of Article 44. The constitution I quoted earlier guarantees to all citizens that under equal conditions they can be admitted to public service, and this Law obviously does not allow it. For those reasons, I can't vote for him. That's why I suggest we remove the emergency procedure and until the second reading to remove this deficiency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22118	Thank you very much. Does the State Secretary's wish at the Justice Department have a final review? Mrs. Snježana Bagic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22119	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At the end of the debate on these proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Courts, allow me just a few words. Already, this debate on this seemingly formal and technical amendment of the Law on Courts shows that it is not formalism. It is true, and we have all confirmed that the amendments and additions of this Law are necessary in order to regulate the position of the Supreme Court's secretary now as a state official who is declared a state official by another law, the Law on Obligations and Rights of State officials, i.e. by his amendments and amendments. So he became a state official. As far as the public tender is concerned, as far as I'm aware, and I don't think the other public officials are changing on the basis of a public tender. Therefore, even in the case of the Supreme Court's secretary as a state official, it is not necessary to prescribe a tender in order for him to be appointed to that position. As regards these other objections to the provisions of the Act governing the position of the Secretary of State as a State, on the one hand, therefore, one security to a person who will not possibly be appointed to the Secretary of State and to the position of the Secretary-General so far when he is appointed as the new President of the Supreme Court. The application was, however, more precisely in the light of the specific provision of the Law, the proposer called unfoundedly and incorrectly for the provisions of the Law on the procedure for the handover of the Authority. In fact, the proposer has only connected, and I quote exactly the provision: "In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the procedure of handing over the authorities, it is also prescribed." Namely, the applicant's intention was to make an analogy with the relevant, referring provisions of the Law on the procedure of handing over power and here by this Law in one place to determine that it is specified for other state officials and the Registrar of the Supreme Court is, or becomes, a state official of his right to do so if the President of the Supreme Court no longer wants him as his secretary to have the right to security as well as the other state officials who, by law, are obliged and the rights of state officials to be deployed in that place, as stated in the sentence of Article 8. The law on the procedure of handing over authorities. Why is it that the Supreme Court secretary has become a state official has less rights, though not an obligation than the other state officials who are some of them of the executive authorities, this is in the judicial authority. Therefore, its appointments and its rights and obligations are defined by this Act as a law governing the full judgmental authority, including, of course, the internal... status of the Registrar of the Supreme Court. It can certainly be discussed who should be appointed, whether it should be the President of the Supreme Court as one person or perhaps a general session, there is certainly a difference between the executive authority, its structure and the judicial authority on the other hand, just as when we are leaving from what is the role of the Supreme Court secretary it is to assist the President of the Court in the affairs of the judicial administration, because the President of the Supreme Court as the President of the Supreme Court, of course, and possibly more important of its functions and the role is responsible as the President of the Court and of the Court of Justice. And the Registrar of the Supreme Court, although he is the Registrar of the Court as such in the first order, helps the President of the Court and his staff in handling the affairs of the judicial administration. It therefore seems more logical, according to the applicant's assessment, to then appoint and resolve the President of the Supreme Court, of course, with the opinion of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court previously delivered. As for those required to be recognized and there is agreement that these amendments should be adopted and the additions to the law raised the question of who, I cannot agree with those remarks that they are being adopted because of one person. It's because we have a Supreme Court secretary but we can't talk about a name for a certain person with a specific name and name. It's completely irrelevant who it will be, it's the right of the Supreme Court to determine it according to the previous... general session. But this amendment was necessary in order to determine, within the framework of the judicial authority, the position of the Supreme Court's secretary as the state official to whom we have given that position by other law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Officials. This one thing, no one has claimed that this law is a reform law, it is a law that is more technical status... regulates the same important issue of the position of the person who will assist the President of the Supreme Court in the conduct of the affairs of the judicial administration as the President of the highest court in the Republic of Croatia. The reform is carried out not only by laws but by a series of other activities and measures it is under way to regularly report to the public and this House through individual reports and individual other amendments and additions to the law. The Ministry... The Republic of Croatia has in its plan a new Law on Courts and Law on Judicial Exercises, otherwise it will be an opportunity to discuss reform in a different way and in a broader context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22120	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected deputy president of House Mato Arlovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22121	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues, respected counterpart Bagic, the secretary of state said among other things how familiar she is and other state officials are not named in the competition. All depends, in fact, on what tasks the public official is doing and whether it is appointed and elected directly or indirectly, and in this respect I again call upon the constitutional provision, it is a matter of public service to remind me that by the force of the law of which we are changing and supplementing and the provisions that remain the Registrar of the Court is actually organised and responsible for the work of the professional service and, in addition, we have made this possible by new amendment and supplementing this. So, professional services, the court's chief of staff, and we've made it possible for him to conduct procedures against minor injuries, disciplinary proceedings against the same officer and subsistence. In such a situation, it is obvious that it is necessary to bring this Act in line with the constitutional provision, regardless of whether it is possible in the current system for certain civil servants who perform the same public services, it may be possible for the law to be omitted to...... that judges themselves are named in a different way through the DSV and that there is access to all and the possibility therefore must be made by the Registrar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22122	Thank you very much. Next, Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 158. The debate is closed. Please engage. Please vote. Score. I find that with 106 votes for, 6 abstentions and 7 against the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts in the text, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22125	Your Honor, Mr. President. At the 19th session held on 17 September 2004, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed the proposal for a law on explosive substances submitted by the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 9 September 2004, following the debate, the proposal for a law on explosive substances in the text is adopted as proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22126	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Committee? Here is my colleague, Širac, on behalf of the Committee for, say, what are the missing business conditions or missing. It's about a law that's P.Z.E. and in the case of P.Z.E. law, it is possible to conduct a debate without a representative of the Government. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22127	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 12th session held on 23 September, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on explosive substances submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee supported the adoption of the proposed Law, with a proposal to prescribe more detailed conditions for the destruction of explosives especially in relation to possible locations for those purposes by 2 readings. The Committee considers that there is a need to limit the number of sites at which these hazardous substances are allowed to be destroyed in regular use and to cause long-term adverse effects on the environment and, in particular, on groundwaters. The Committee supports the adoption of this Law by, of course, taking into account the comments made by the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22128	Thank you very much, dear fellow Chirac. Does anyone else want to speak on behalf of the working bodies? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, the first in line are clubs, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, respected colleague Vresk. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say immediately that it is a good thing that this Law, unlike the Law on road transport, is brought into two readings, although I have seen that there, too, the Legislative Committee proposed that it be the first reading of the law, and now I will say why. Indeed, such a law should be passed as soon as possible, because this harmonisation of the technical legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the same legislation in the countries of the European Union and the former Government has already had this kind of text. He is, of course, improved in parts but still not enough and needs to be discussed. What is important for this Law is that we have, for the most part, harmonised our technical standards with the countries of the European Union, but we have little and little adapted how it suits us, and in some articles of the law, we extend the deadlines for sale, so it is put on the market of funds, and this is explained that it is good for that, because there are some countries in the environment as well. Of course, it's not that technical harmonisation and it doesn't apply to it, but it's not even the most important part of the law, so we're not going to spread much on it. What needs to be fixed in law, in any case, needs to be fixed by a nomoch, so I will just count a few articles in which it is necessary to do so. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Which ministry? We know it's the Ministry of the Interior, although we agreed that it should not be written like that, but it's usually written and it's a legal, proper ministry responsible for internal affairs. Article 10 shall also apply. Ministry of Regular, Extraordinary, etc. Again, which ministry? You know which one, but it should be written. Article 11e is what produces small problems. Handing over explosive substances to the power of persons, paragraph 1 point 2, which is not legally sentenced to a criminal act for which it is being prosecuted under official duty. and now that you see from the Penal Code for which all the parts are being prosecuted under official duty, you will also see a series of traffic delicacies which have the character of criminal acts that are in their nature, criminal acts for which they are being prosecuted, so by the act of the State's attorney, we think that these are parts that should not be an obstacle to that being stated in Article 11(1). And to put it briefly, there are a number of contents that use different legal terms, so in this sense we warn the Government, or the Ministry of the Interior, to fix it until the second reading, and also to draw close to determining the deadline when these things, so explosive substances can be placed on the market, so they can sell, drive, import, etc. Because it seems to me that the more restrictive deadline in view of our recent history, and also of all the risks that he may have was safer, I won't say better, it's hard to talk about such things better and worse than it is to set one too long period of time between certain dates that mean something to us not to say to the state, or to its inhabitants, and those dates when such funds are usually used. However, regardless of all this time limit is required, we consider this to be the case before being set more restrictively. However, the proposer certainly has time to second reading of the law. What is most important is to fix the nomochnik and, of course, I am not going to talk about the comments of the Legislative Committee. We think it would be good to include such remarks in the text until the final proposal is drawn up, i.e. in the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22130	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Širac. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22131	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Explosives Act for Economic Use was passed in 1994 and published in "National Journal" 12. He arranged the production, transport and use of explosive substances in the Republic of Croatia. Today, ten years after the law was passed, we can determine that it was one of the better laws and that it enabled and arranged all relations in the country regarding production, use and in general with regard to the management of explosives. However, the need to comply with European legislation has been imposed to supplement this law with the new provisions. The new law is in line with European Directive 9315SII concerning the transport and use of explosives for civil use. The law contains a lot of newspapers that have not been governed by the applicable law. Therefore, the provisions of Article 15 have been amended, one part of the applicable law under which the authorisation to carry out the production activities of explosive substances has been granted to the applicant to Croatian citizenship and residence in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to legal persons, the production of traffic testing and the use of explosive substances under the provisions of the bill will be able to carry out natural persons, i.e. A craftsman. The person appointed as the responsible person in the legal person or craftsman who is involved in the production, transport, use of the power will have to, with the general conditions prescribed for all persons handling explosive substances, have the right profession to carry out the tasks for which he is responsible, and to know the Croatian language and the Latin letter. Legal persons and craftsmen who will be authorised to manufacture explosive substances will also be able to carry out recycling and neutralising of obsolete explosive substances, classic and rocket ammunition and mine-explosive means. The new solution was also given in Article 16 of the Law, under which a legal person and craftsman can produce explosives and substances on the workshop where they will be used, if they have specialised equipment and approval for radio production. The supply of explosive substances is governed by the provisions of Article 22. The authorisation for the supply of explosive substances will be granted only to the legal person or craftsman who has the authorisation to use explosive substances and the authorisation to carry out humanitarian demining operations, which is of great importance to us, or to authorise underground mining works, in accordance with specific regulations. The administration of explosive substances is bound to safety. So it's only allowed for the purposes that are specified in the approval. The applicable law laid down a very short deadline for the sale and use of pyrotechnic articles for small fireworks and this restriction was from 26 December to 1 January of course of the current year. Therefore, it was necessary to extend the deadline of sale and use to the full month of December, in order to comply with the conditions of sale with neighbouring countries, which would contribute to reducing controlled sales and maintaining the establishment of the necessary security. We know that the smuggling and import of these things for 12 months in Croatia has been booming and that our organs have had serious difficulties to prevent it. That's why we're proposing solutions like that right now. The use of explosive substances for the execution of public fireworks shall be possible if it is carried out by authorised legal or physical authorities subject to the conditions laid down in the approval of the competent authority. The implementation of mining operations is governed by the provisions of Article 33 of the Law. Mined operations are divided into ground-based mining, special mining and underground mining. These tasks will be able to be carried out by legal persons and craftsmen on the basis of authorisation to carry out one or more types of activities. In our legislation, however, it was not possible for any of these jobs to be done by craftsmen, but this harmonisation of the law with European norms and such a possibility is now being created. Mines to be implemented for the purpose of destroying mine-explosive assets and unexploded funds have been particularly isolated and will be able to be carried out by persons who have passed the test for pyrotechnics. Construction of manufacturing and storage facilities is well regulated by the provisions of Article 44 of the Law proposal. But these facilities must be built and equipped to ensure the protection of the lives and health of people, their property and the environment, and can only be built in a place specified by spatial planning documents or a local permit. Regulations on production, research and storage facilities of explosive substances will be passed by the interior minister, with the agreement of the environment minister. The destruction of explosive substances is a job and can only be done by a trained person. Smaller quantities of explosive substances may be destroyed in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions and at the place where the use of explosive substances is allowed. at the construction site. The larger quantities of explosive substances in our court should be destroyed exclusively in a specific place in order to prevent adverse effects on nature and the environment. Let's just remember the consequences of mined large warehouses with explosives during the Homeland War and be assured that I know this issue well, and we'll have long, long years of consequences for the destruction of these explosive substances, and that's why this deserves special attention. The draft law also lays down the powers of inspectors to monitor the implementation of the law and powers of the Minister of Interior to adopt implementing rules. Criminal provisions shall be applied in order to sanction the illegal conduct that we consider also a good solution. It is the view of the Croatian Democratic Community Club that this bill well regulated all issues related to the production, transport and use of explosive substances and therefore the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22132	Thank you very much, dear fellow Shirac. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Lucin. Here you go, Comrade Lucin!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22133	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I think it's a good thing that the proposing representatives are here even though this is P.Z.E. The law for a simple reason because, by my judgment, this law is good material and good potential to become a very good law. It would not be about those works of nomotechnics and certain needs of defining some concepts and making more clear the relationship between these concepts, I think that the Legislative Committee has made good remarks and I believe that the Proposer will consider them and adopt them, and therefore I think that it is a good thing that he would already try some of the principles and what I think when we adopt this law, so in the second reading, when we talk about it, it will be necessary to take special care. The issue of explosives, the transport of explosives, the use of explosives, the storage of explosives and all other explosive substances, so everything that comes from pyrotechnic substances of different categories to, say, ammunition specifically, I think is worth the attention of this Assembly for a simple reason, because the data that we have in Croatia is how many people die annually because of the inextricable, inadequate use of explosives to ordinary pyrotechnic things, not to say weapons and ammunition so require special attention. I also believe that another law that is important for this segment of Croatia to so call it general security is also the Arms Act. In fact, one segment could be rounded up which, in fact, unlike some other countries and the transitions of Croatian environments have a different dimension. However, Croatia has in a certain way a different specific weight when it comes to explosive substances and means compared to other countries because Croatia was relatively long ago in the war and what was too much of the means. Since this law, unlike the existing law that was passed in 1994 and which in a certain way treated only economic explosives, is actually being spread here. And perhaps one suggestion to the Proposer to consider in a certain way in this whole story about thus production. Storage that all together in repeat, putting on the market of explosive substances in a certain way, I think, must involve the Ministry of Economy. If he doesn't do anything and first of all because he needs to hear from the Ministry of Economy certain opinions and suggestions, or I don't know of any other Ministry of Mines, the competent one for certain tasks where explosive substances are used. What seems to me wrong with this law seems to me, therefore, that the Ministry of the Interior is too much responsibility and obligation to load itself on its back. That's about what it looks like. I'm giving you permission from the Department of the Interior, giving you permission, supervision, inspection. I think that, in fact, in a certain way, other bodies of the state administration should be involved from the inspection services I've told some other ministries in this whole story. What I also think should be considered and considered I don't think it's a good thing that the Ministry of the Interior and the MORH are completely singled out from this law. I think this House and the Proposer should also take into account previous experiences. That at least when it comes to urban environments, cities and the storage of explosives, the two institutions, or those two ministries, should be set up certain propositions. Perhaps I should remind you or tell you if you don't know the hardest in 2000 and thus say the most sensitive job we've done in the ministry is to carry out large amounts of explosives from urban centers. One city, for example, in one night, we took out eight tows. In downtown, there were basements of different police stations and police departments of explosives. That's why I think we should use it. Normally, these are two specific situations, or services, and there should be certain opportunities for them to create something themselves. But I'm saying, when it comes to the city, when it comes to the storage of explosives in the city, I think you should also make sure that both the MORH and the MUP are prescribed certain propositions. As far as I'm concerned, I think the law should also make the storage conditions more clear. I'm not sure that manual warehouses can and as containers around explosives can only be listed like that. I think they should actually be prescribed in law. Also, there seems to be plenty of room left for some important things to be solved by sublegal acts. If you're already going to sublegal acts that have to regulate these things, then I hope they'll be more restrictive. I think it would also be good if, therefore, it were possible for this law to come into force on the 1.12, for the simple reason that it is a time when this, when this pyrotechnic, expansion of pyrotechnics is very large and since it is regulated and this law might be possible, I hope since the law as I have said is not as bad and I don't think it takes much work to get him into effect this year. I have concrete remarks here. It seems to me that the motionary specifically around pyrotechnics has left too many storage options again. If you sell pyrotechnic goods you can hold in the kiosk, you can hold 15 kilos of gross pyrotechnics in the kiosk. That's what you keep in the kiosk about 7.8 kilos of dynamite very dangerous. Or, say, 30 kilos in some store. I think that some of these things should actually, you know, be a little bit more restrictively prescribed and actually that this law, like I said, I have a lot of potential. Since I believe because there is no reason why the Proposer would not accept the suggestions he received in writing and what was said about here and what else would probably be said that this Law would not be very good in the second reading and the SDP Club would support this law in the first reading, and then I also believe that when it comes in the form of a final proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22134	Thank you, dear colleague Lucin. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in line is a respected colleague of Vuljanic's. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22135	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would agree with my colleague, Lucino, if it were really a well-adjusted bill that comprehensively surrounds this topic, much broader than the previous law. Perhaps a few suggestions that seem to me could help me in better formulas for a second reading or for the final text. Article 9 refers to studies, external studies of explosive substances which are recognised if they comply with the applicable Croatian rules. We will have our regulations or already have them, I don't know exactly, either we have to comply or we've brought them in line with European regulations. For some importers, this will be a major problem if they import explosives from the European Community market. I think it would be more rational if this article were to encourage the recognition of studies conducted in the European Community countries because we will accept these standards very soon or we have already accepted them. Article 28 provides that the Minister will adopt an implementing act. It would be good to prescribe and within what time limit will this implementing act not to keep the matter at the level of the declaration, I suggest that it be by the end of the year or 6 months, but as you consider it appropriate. Article 30 is a little weird. In paragraph 6, the minister has the opportunity to cut legal deadlines. The term in which you can trade explosives by your own judgment. I don't think that's good, and I don't think that such provisions in laws should be at all, should be built in unless it's necessary because of some really higher and quite clearly indicated interests. Which isn't the case here. Article 41 refers to the fact that a permit for an explosive-related business may be taken if a legal person or craftsman already involved loses the conditions for carrying out those tasks. Nowhere does it say what this legal person, this craftsman, or that individual can do after the decision is issued to him that he no longer has the conditions to do the job. Maybe you should put in a provision that there's some other, second-degree body, whether it's an administrative procedure, if it's something else, but in any case there's a possibility that a man might complain about a solution. Finally, Articles 52 and 54 state the proposed criminal measures for those who do not comply with certain provisions of this law. It seems to me that the range between what is punished in a violation of a legal person and the person who is punished by a natural person is too large or that the penalties for a natural person are too small because the danger is equal to whoever is unauthorized by explosives. Whether it was a legal person or a natural person and I think that the range of those penalties should be brought closer or increased by natural persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22136	Thank you, colleague Vuljanic. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the final word? No or yes? Here is my colleague Katic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22137	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the clubs, committees and MPs who have made individual remarks. I won't look personally at the remarks. I believe that for the most part the remarks made here are being prepared for another reading can be considered. We will try to max the deadline between the first and second readings and try to refer this law in the next month and a half to the second reading. The Ministry of the Interior is paying a lot of attention to the safety of citizens when it comes to mine-explosive assets and weapons, and in addition to this law, it is very likely that next month you will see the Arms Act that was made, and we believe the Law on humanitarian demining, which has little length of its way of making, but it should also be found very nearly in front of this home. As far as I'm concerned, I would refer only to the latest remarks that the respected representative Vuljanic made over the range of penalties for violations. It is because the limit of minimum and maximum amounts of fines for natural persons determines the Law on Infringements and we could not prevent that limit. When it comes to such laws and consequences that can arise unless this law is fully applied, it is certain that they deserve much more punishment. However, we are limited by some general rules. Here again I thank everyone for the remarks and we believe that by respecting the greatest part of these remarks, the final proposal for the law will be much better and will be able to come across the perception of this home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22138	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. This agenda item will be held during tomorrow's vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22139	The next item of the vote is the Proposal for a Law on Explosive Substances, first reading, P.Z. No. 159. The debate is closed. Please engage. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. Score. I find that with 109 votes for, five abstentions and none against, the bill on explosive substances was adopted. Conclusion, so I said. What did I say to the law? The conclusion that the Proposed Law on Explosive Substances is adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22140	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final bill on the confirmation of the patent law contract (PLT), emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 161; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first ones are as usual representatives' clubs, respected counterpart Vuljanic, on behalf of the HNS's Club of Representatives, the PGS. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22141	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We are pleased that a law with the PZE marking is coming into the procedure where we are not forced to work so quickly. Namely this contract signed this horse to the nation all seems to me, six or seven states. Or ratified in their appraisals. We'll be among the first. It pleases me to take a move that says that we care about accepting and respecting global and world standards without being forced into it. Of course, I have proposed a law on him cannot be discussed much, because it is a convention that we cannot change in which we have to fit in, but it seems to me that there is no great need for it. What will happen after the adoption of this Law will have to be amended and complemented by the law on potent law, especially as regards some deadlines. BUT the greatest advantage of accepting this contract is entering the global system of patent rights. Entering a system to adapt our legislation and finally adapt our practice. I assume that the proposal included the Croatian Intellectual Property Institute in the proposal for this law. With whom I personally collaborated in many ways and convinced myself that these are people who care deeply about their work and who are a fully competite club will support this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22142	Thank you, colleague Vuljanic. On behalf of the HD ClubFor a esteemed colleague, Ivas, please choose a colleague, Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22143	Dear Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. The government of the Republic of Croatia referred to this parliamentary procedure a bill to confirm the patent agreement, and can say immediately at the beginning that the Croatian Democratic Community club will accept the bill. For the purpose of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the law of the European Union. This Law confirms the international agreement, which in fact expresses the readiness for the Republic of Croatia to be bound by this contract. The contract also addresses issues in the field of patent law application, as well as bodies responsible for the recognition and protection of patents by States Parties. Otherwise, in the Republic of Croatia, patent law was passed in 2003. And for the harmonisation of patent law with international standards, certain international conventions have been incorporated there, in that law the principles of the Paris Convention. Provisions of these agreements for the purpose of joining the World Trade Organisation. Provisions resulting from the patent cooperation agreement. And this harmonisation, or harmonisation, created a modern patent system that is in line with international standards and practices. And by doing so, that is, Croatia's way of joining the Republic of Croatia in the European Community has opened up. Otherwise, a patent contract was adopted at a diplomatic convention in Genoa. However, he has not yet come into force. Because the Treaty itself stipulates that it will enter into force after three months have elapsed when ten Member States lay down ratification papers. So far, these documents have been laid down by eight states. Otherwise, the contract was signed by 53 member states of the World Intellectual Property Organisation, including the Republic of Croatia. The entry into force of this law will condition certain changes in our domestic patent law. There are mostly two basic things that need to be coordinated. And these are must change those parts relating to meeting the formal conditions for the recognition of the date of application. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Then, in a work that regulates mandatory representation issues before the Bureau. This is regulated in Article 7. It is also necessary here to point out that the general principles of the contract are prescribed by the Contracting Party to provide for conditions which are more favourable from the point of view of the rightholder and the owner than the conditions laid down in this Treaty and the Regulations clearly other than those laid down in Article 5. It is also prescribed that nothing in this Treaty should be interpreted as asking for anything that would allow the Party's freedom of freedom to prescribe in its law the conditions of material law relating to patents as it wishes. And at the end of the adoption of this treaty-confirmation law, and the laydown of ratification papers will speed up the process of entry into force of this law. Which is certainly the interest of all member states of the Soviet trade organisation. Since it will uniquely regulate the way patent applications are submitted, the establishment of a unique patent recognition procedure. That is also why the Croatian Democratic Community will accept this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22144	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Whether the proposing representatives want to take the final word, to be obvious, yes. Here you go. A fellow Primorac. Dear colleague, just a moment. Ministerial assistants can speak on the working bodies but can't speak in Parliament. Only ministers and State Secretarys can speak in Parliament. I'm sorry. I am finalising the debate on the final draft of the law on the confirmation of the patent law treaty, and we will vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22145	Final proposal of the Law confirming the Agreement on patent law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 161. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. There's no proposer. It is necessary to vote on a single amendment of the nomotechnical nature. Please engage. So we vote on whether or not to accept the amendment of the Committee on Law. Who's up for that amendment? ... Oh, there is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is simple, in Article 3(3), to be replaced by the words "State Institute" in the words "Central Authority of the State Administration". Please vote. Score. I find that the amendment has been accepted by 103 votes in favour, five abstentions and nine against. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. The vote. Score. I find that with 99 votes for, 6 abstentions and 8 against the proposed law, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22146	- Final bill of road transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 160; The legislator is the Government. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22147	Excuse me, Vice President, on behalf of the HSP Club, I request that the motionary be re-enacted because we have asked that this point and this Law do not go by an urgent procedure as well as evidenced by the Committee on Lawmaking which has made observations on all and one article of this law. Well, before we open the debate, the proposer would have to show himself whether he's going in the process or in the regular procedure. How would we as a club know how to set ourselves up according to this proposal? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22148	Thank you very much. My dear fellow helper. But unfortunately, nothing can be made manifest until the debate is opened. It must be first and foremost to open the agenda. So let us do that part. And I will remind the motionor of his duties. Thank you very much. So the bill promoter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have received a number of acts in boxes, in accordance with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Ninth Procedure unites the first and second readings of the Law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Maritime and Transport and Communications. You have received their reports from the meeting, whether or not the applicant's representative wishes to further explain the law. He does. And I believe that in addressing the House, it will also be noted that the overworked working body will be held to discuss this law in the first reading, so to give up the emergency procedure. Here's a word from my colleague Breglec, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22149	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Of course, it was primarily intended to show itself about the very way this law was discussed, and I would like to point out that it certainly respects the observations set out on the Legislative Committee and where it was unanimously concluded that this Law proposal, that it changes the character of adoption and does not go into a united process of first and second reading, but goes into a regular procedure in the first reading. So, I hereby declare that the Proposer accepts this proposal, and I also ask you to adopt the view that today, in the first reading, this cover is debated, with one little correction, that it was not on each article, all and one article as you have stated, but rather on a number of articles, but that we are gratefully accepting every well-intentioned remark, and many have been identified, so we have decided to accept this conclusion as well. Now let me bring forward the most important things that are dealt with by this law. So, let me just remind you that the adoption of this law is one of the provisions of the Stabilisation and Search Agreement, which was established in 2004 as one of the basic tasks of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport, Tourism and Development. The current Road Transport Act was passed in 98. During 2002, it was amended and updated, so that in 2003 a consolidated text was drawn up and followed by another amendment of the law. The proposal put forward today in the first reading is in line with 6 Council Regulations of the European Community and with three Directives which are incorporated into the proposed text of the draft law. In the drafting of the law, apart from the regular government procedure of making the proposal itself, the commissions included a number of representatives of different modes of transport, associations of carriers and freight or low transport and chambers and economic and craftsmen, and we believe that in this proposal we have managed to reconcile on the one hand the numerous demands and wishes, on the other hand the possibilities and restrictions that the state normally has on such requests. The final proposal for a road transport law, in relation to the applicable law, proposed several new solutions, in order to rationalise the procedure for the exercise of appropriate licences, to strengthen the control and performance of road transport activities and to meet the conditions for carrying out certain modes of transport, as well as the records of certain transports which were not provided for in the applicable law. In order to strengthen the competition, public calls have been made to all interested carriers in certain cases prescribed to carry out transport in the event of renewal of licences, provided that the renewal is not renewed for the reasons prescribed by this law or at the end of the validity of the licence before the expiry of the period of authorisation granted. Therefore, the public call introduces this law for the first time elements of competition, which is very difficult to do in this activity in view of its character. Licences are a new term compared to the applicable law, because the termology is now in line with the one used in the countries of the European Union, and so far the term approval has been used in terms of an act approving the operation of transport. A large, we would also say a key novelty in this proposal is also the proposed Article 8 which sets out the conditions which must be met by a natural or legal person for the license, i.e. according to the proposal, one of the conditions is owned, leased or leasing, for one registered motor vehicle, while under the applicable law, internal free transport and international, at least one for the internal and international transport of at least 3 buses. The draft law provides for a reduction in the number of authorisations, i.e. licences so far, which have been issued specifically for free line transport, freight transport and car taxi transport, as well as transport in internal and public road and international transport, are now foreseen for international freight and passenger transport and inland freight and passenger transport. Furthermore, what is as a complete novelty is incorporated, it is the bill that legal and natural persons carrying out the transport of passengers or goods for their own use are obliged to register before the start of transport or to the offices of state administrations that they are registered in the register of carriers for their own use, except for the transport of goods by vehicles or a group of vehicles whose maximum permissible does not exceed 3,500 kg. This chapter of the news is also the process of synchronising lines in Croatia's economic and Croatian craft chamber, which represents a quality shift from a solution that has been regulated by a sublegal act so far. The legal follow-up to the draft law is a new possibility that the legal follow-up of the carrier to whom the authorisation can continue to carry out the transport on the basis of the authorisation granted while at the same time taking over identical rights and obligations, but with the control mechanism by the licencer, that is, its prior consent. In the case of passenger transport, the novelty is the joint operation of the transport of two or more carriers on the basis of the contract applying the mandatory relations rules, the partnership, and the introduction of a sub-lorry, which is allowed temporarily, no longer than 90 days during one calendar year, that the carrier to which the authorisation is granted shall entrust the operation of the transport to another carrier who must also comply with the conditions prescribed by law. In particular, the provisions of the draft law in the performance of specific liner transport provide for an exception to the rule that special liner transport of passengers can be carried out exclusively by buses. According to the proposal, the transport can now be carried out by vehicles of 8+1 or special vehicles. The draft law sets out the conditions for obtaining as well as the distribution of foreign licences, as so far as has not been defined by the applicable law, and it is prescribed that the use of the vulnerabilities issued, which has not been in the law so far. It follows that the proposed law of the Republic of Croatia includes Croatia within a round of European countries which have similarly regulated the activity of road transport and which has installed not only the legislation of the European Union, but also the practice, and so far co-operation with a whole series of countries in the text of the new law. With this proposal for a law, the Republic of Croatia is a step closer to meeting the obligations undertaken by signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as well as the obligations established by obtaining candidate status for entry into the European Union. There, so much in this opening argument. We're at our disposal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22150	Thank you. Since the proposer's representative accepted the proposal of the Legislative Committee to hold a debate on this law in the first reading and thus gave up the emergency procedure, I am reporting to the Parliament that we will hold a debate on this law as if it were the law in the first reading. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first in line are representatives' clubs. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, dear colleague Josip Vresk. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I thought differently about this law, I must honestly admit, but it's a good thing that the secretary of state accepted the conclusion, that is, the proposal for the conclusion of the Legislative Committee with its law goes as if it were the first reading because it's really so much, I won't say bad, but it's not good for the final proposal, that it really can't be discussed as a final proposal. The text of this law is not in line with the provisions of the Road Safety Act. It's a shame those two laws went at different times, look at just the article, it seems to me to be the fifth of this law, so you'll see what the age limit is under this law, what is the age limit under the Road Safety Act. Shortly before, a representative of the motions, Mr. Secretary of State, said that it is good that we introduce a newspaper, for example in Article 8, we introduce one newspaper, and in Article 9, it is also a good business reputation, and it stands in paragraph 1 of Article 9 of this law with a legal or natural person, i.e. a responsible person in a legal or physical person who wants to carry out road transport activities if, and is now picking up, in order to write in point 3 of that same sentence, he is not sentenced to other criminal offences for a prison sentence for more than a year. Well, you don't think legal people can be sentenced to prison for more than a year, of course I know you didn't want to say that, but that needs to be fixed. Some of the provisions of this law are in direct contrast to the Constitution, as they give the competent county authorities authority that has the state administration. It should also be looked at. What is most difficult in this law, and that seems to me to be the comments of the Legislative Committee that 10 names are used for the same terms in one case. It's in the part where you talk about making a deal and breaking a contract. It needs to be evened out, and it really can't be talked about in terms that mean the same thing anymore, at least not so different today. Here I don't know exactly how many objections there were just the Legislative Committee, I think 40-50. It's visible that you need to fix the text. What I want to say is that this is a good, good wish and that it really should have been before, if not with the Road Safety Act, because it is an area that is so perceptive to one another, it is such a touching area that it is difficult to discuss this law, and it has already been passed the Road Safety Act, which we wish to acknowledge or not, will in one future be the subject of debate in this House because it is visible that such text cannot survive for long. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will, in addition to all the remarks that I have now said, first of all, bring this text into line with the Road Safety Act, make this text in accordance with the Constitution, improve grammar, correct the nomochnik, and accept all the comments of the Committee on Law, in which case we are prepared to support this text in the first reading and, if the final draft law is in line with these observations and all the remarks, above all, the Legislative Committee, and after that, it seems to me another committee, then we are ready and such text is supported in the second reading, so support the final proposal for this text. I don't want to say the harsher thing I meant to say, since the promoter has accepted this as the first law reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22152	Thank you, too, dear colleague Vresk. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Nenadic is next. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22153	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I am the act of accepting that this is the first reading, as my colleague Vresk said changes the way the debate is discussed. This law is one of the obligations of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but it bears such a mark, and we owe it as soon as possible and as best as possible. Road transport participates, it says there with 9% in total freight transport, and in passenger transport with 71%. It shows how valuable and important this law is. It shall, when it comes to road transport, resolve from the licences and licences of the Community of European, European Community, passenger transport, freight transport, cabotage, road compensation, bus and freight stations, the authority of inspection and other supervisory authorities, infringement provisions and that is, in fact, what should be contained in it. I wouldn't talk about what's good, because both intent and mostly articles are good, but these things that we've noticed may not be good, or they're not good, should then be brought out here and, until the second reading, to fix this law really as important as possible. And the HDZ Club really agrees with the view of the Committee on Lawmaking that it should be brought into line with other laws of this law, and also several observations, the proposals, in fact, to the promoters who were on the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections, we also feel that they should be considered a little bit. Let's just say, would it be good to determine the maximum age limit for bus and freight vehicles as we have for personal cars? Because, especially when it comes to buses that drive people, transport people, children, excursions, there are no restrictions, and for personal cars there are. This was one remark on the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Connections, which we all supported and we propose to the Proposer to consider. Likewise, it is said a little more precisely and defined when it comes to the transport of dangerous cargo. Here, a few more remarks that might need to be considered. Some articles provide obligations, those who have a personal identity, but nothing is said what if it is not respected. So no sanctions are prescribed, which is not good. I also note at the time of the replacement of licences that should be replaced, let's say, domestic licences with these licences of the European Community, the European Union. Then, the process of synchronising the lines between the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce, perhaps it should also be a little better defined, and so should the one who asks for this harmonisation pays a certain fee. So who does he pay, what chamber and how do they share money? Maybe it's written somewhere else, so forget what I said. Perhaps only granting permits should be placed under one greater supervision, and one, impose sanctions on offenders in order to avoid possible manipulations, we all know that there was a lot of manipulation in that section. Also, whether or not certain supervision should be given to the prices of stationery services. The shelter is kind of a monopoly after all. And now if it's good for them to decide on their own prices, and let's remember, for example, how the bar, the tariffs raised the dust when there's no control or that no one gives consent. We believe that a lot of those who, in the light of the amendments, have come from different clubs, and from several clubs and from individuals that there are really too many proposals, and since the first reading would not repeat them, we think that they should be taken into account and this law should be supported in the first reading with the recommendation that a large part of these observations be taken into account and brought into line with the applicable other laws and we think that we can then have a good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22154	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, as I said a few minutes ago that the law we discussed, about explosive substances, a very good law and a law that has the potential to be one of the more quality laws that we are here in the Parliament, we will bring in final form. Who I also personally think that this law that we are talking about today on road traffic could not actually be characterized by these attributes. It seems to me, in fact, that the proponent in this law is balancing between different standards in terms of the standards that are laid down in the European Union countries and with a certain real situation among Croatian carriers, but then also respecting the position of foreign carriers tried to make one mix. And it just seems to me that out of that intention actually to make some kind of compromise we've got an unquality proposal. At first, let me say, given that this is the first reading, the SDP Club will not be opposed to this law being directed to the second reading, but I hope that then, given the large number of amendments that have come. I personally got some seven-eight letters from different interested apartments for this law and actually I might point out just a few things, but they all say they don't understand why the ministry was kind in that sense when the law was being discussed, and that actually their remarks and suggestions from these talks were no longer entered into this law. What seems to me, perhaps in this first reading and even in the final proposal, we should perhaps as representatives, as well as the Croatian public get a few answers. This is, in fact, a law that should not, in my opinion, and not only be, a law that we only comply with European legislation, but above all, from this law should, in a certain way, result in the strategic commitment of Croatia as regards the transport of cargo and passengers, especially burdens. This means, given the growth of road traffic, given the position given to the transporters by this law, I would simply conclude in fact that Croatia will prefer road transport in the coming period, for example, to the heart of the railway. Whether it's good or not, I'm not going to get into it, but maybe this law or the introduction should actually define it in a certain way. What I'm personally afraid of, and I see a lot of people who are interesting, so work related to this whole story is this. That Croatian carriers are not qualified to meet the standards prescribed in Europe. Since this law also opens up one space, which is that in a certain way, foreign carriers will be able to drive in Croatia and through Croatia, it seems to me that this legitimate fear should actually be considered. Whether there is both the will and the possibility to protect domestic carriers in a certain way during this transitional period, I think that this remark should give some initiative to the applicant's attention. Otherwise, there are also a lot of nomotechnical failures in this law. I might have stopped, I don't know if other ministries were involved in this law, but here's what I'm saying is that the Ministry of the Interior didn't participate in writing this law, because you have an interesting story, and it looks like this to you. So, an employer can hire an 18-year-old person to drive a truck or a bus. He can't. We passed a law where an 18-year-old must volunteer to get a permanent driver's license. So the law is collapsing. I don't know why this same law prescribes that a maximum person who can work with a carrier must be 65 years old. Why? If someone can drive a personal car up to 80 years old, then I guess a van, bus or something else can be driven with something more than a year old if a man is healthy, he has health conditions etc. So I'd like to pray that now it doesn't turn out to be a non-sensing thing that our dangerous tankers can drive 21-year-olds without our cars being able to drive unaccounted for by 50-year-olds, ordinary people. So I would pray if this story was not consulted and included by the Ministry of the Interior, that is, the task force that worked on this second Road Safety Act, so that it would be good for them to consult. Introducing a good reputation I liked it very much, but then when I talked to some lawyers, they actually made it a little bit of two that it was questionable, what are the criteria, what are the criteria, and who should actually define this good reputation. There's a chapter in the law that says something about it, and at the same time I don't know if it was, I wasn't at the beginning, it's said that we could, therefore, have a good reputation for private and natural persons, right, that they couldn't be persons who were jailed. You can't shut down the company, it doesn't punish the prison. There's a responsible person who can do it. As far as I'm concerned, it seems to me that it's not good and that they're not clearly defined and punished, so you actually have a situation where double punishment and companies and responsible persons can happen in one solution. You have a situation where no one can be punished. You also have some solutions, for example, in article 99, which gives you a fine of 15 thousand kuna to 70 thousand kuna, and for similar violations in Article 44, pardon Article 102 provides for punishment for the same thing from 2 thousand to 10 thousand kuna. As far as I understand it, it's actually some kind of illogicality that should at least be harmonised if not entirely in a new form actually put into law. What I said at first and it seems to me that this should actually be an emphasis, which is how and how this law should contribute to the protection of domestic carriers in a way that makes it easier to adapt to European standards. Let's say that's a matter of the age of the bus. I'm not talking about trucks, even though we know what our fleet is like. It's just that no matter how we have a relative and a lot of buses and a lot of trucks, I don't think they fit European standards first of all for years. If we cut it overnight, we'll just get into a situation that a good part of the actually these carriers are going to get kicked out of the game. There's been another stupid thing recently. Let's not do it again. Let's say about the eco test. I'm going to mention her, she's painting actually, so whether to introduce an eco-test. As the rolling stock is quite old in Croatia, then it happens to you that one car limit is up to 87 and the other one is from 87th to here. Now watch out, car 88 and 95, that's a big difference. It seems to me that these are some technical finesse that the proposer didn't take care of enough, and from these letters that I have here, you probably got them, too, actually it's in one transparent and clear way set up. I have some more questions and dilemmas. I don't know why a carrier would have to sell a bus ticket. And that's for every passenger at the same price because as I read this Law, maybe I'm misreading it, I'm not a lawyer, that means that by this law, for example, the carrier couldn't sell a cheaper ticket to a student, a pensioner, etc. Maybe that article is the same in a certain way, so that's what I mean, article 30, where you talk about the same price for all users. I think that's where we should leave the possibility of that one social moment. I agree with a colleague who said that no matter what he is, a dangerous burden may be the subject of a special law, that he should be considered in particular. And in this whole story about one thing that caused a lot of storms, it's determining certain corridors. In fact, there should be some conjecture or the possibility of sublaw regulating certain things. Because you simply have then that the public, and also those to whom certain decisions apply, are actually asked on what basis such decisions have been made. I think there are some good things. Let's just say, I think the issues of the station are well solved. And I think it's a good point that everyone has to use the station. But I would also like to write down views, mandatory views. So, that bus can't stand outside those positions. What I'm still interested in, I'd like to ask the motionary to say something about it. To what extent, in view of the conditions laid down in this Act, domestic carriers and foreign carriers will be discriminated against? I have to admit that I've been trying here to see if it's about the passport, etc., if it's just possible to make it that our carriers wouldn't actually have that feeling that they were discriminated against. Here, I end up with the belief that the question and the pass, so license, quota, etc. and yet I think that this Law, that too many powers have been left to the Minister, or to the Rules. For the simple reason, I think that at least in the law should indicate some criteria. We all know that when it comes to quotas and licences, it's about big money, and it's actually about great opportunities, not going any further. I think some of the criteria in this Act, when the word license and quotas should be taken into account. The last thing I think we should insist on, and that's at least one part of the objection, I've looked at these different professional organizations. I think a number of these remarks can actually be adopted and adopted. Here, while I expect answers to these strategic issues, which is the extent to which Croatia's orientation will be according to road transport. You know Austria has a different one. You can't get through Austria by truck, but when you get to Austria, you get on a train and you take a train, not everywhere, and not always, but mostly when it's transit, you take a train across Austria. Therefore, it should answer these questions and certainly one key question, which is how difficult this Law will make domestic carriers' position is, in any case, going to make it difficult. But if there are opportunities and we are aware of that and unfortunately or fortunately, however you will, so be it, but to what extent there is a certain period of adjustment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22156	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, the respected representative, Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22157	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here, I have already indicated in my response if this is going to be a proposal in the first reading, that our position as a club will be quite different according to this bill. So, this bill of law, as the parent committees and other committees have pointed out, has many of their shortcomings, and I apologize to the secretary of state if he misunderstood me in that performance when I said that he had a Committee of Legislatives on almost every article of some kind. The HSP club supports the adoption of such a law. That is why we will vote to go to the second reading, but until this second reading, we should also really work on this present proposal. Namely, I will now go from article to article, but in a hurry, not every one but where we have the biggest objections to say what we have. For example, in Article 5, where it is proposed that the driver should not drive a vehicle in road traffic after 65 years of life. I think it's really incorrect for people who are over 65 years old than we suggest that that item be referred to for over 65 years, but with medical conviction. Conditions for obtaining a licence. I think we have a lot of objections because the unresolved issue is getting licenses and concessions. We believe that these laws must comply with the licences granted to domestic carriers with the concessions obtained. There's a big problem with this bill. In fact, obtaining a license when collecting strong paperwork and various certificates needed to obtain a license, which actually points to great bureaucracy. And we come into a situation where companies and natural or legal persons looking for licenses, that paperwork or bureaucracy could take months. So we suggest that we also work on it to avoid these great bureaucratic waitings. In Article 9, this bill speaks of a good reputation for a driver, i.e. legal or natural person, or as my predecessors have already noticed, where a good reputation actually comes from a person or firm who has not been sentenced to a prison sentence for more than a year. I mean, here as it is said, a legal person can't, but a physical person can. However, we have paragraph 3 in Article 9, a serious violation of this article is considered a fine of 20 thousand kuna, so it is disproportionate for a natural person to be sentenced for a year and have a good reputation, and a poor reputation will have someone who will be punished with a fine of 20 thousand kuna, and we all know that the penalties today are drastic, so we cannot even the driver as a natural person who has received a prison sentence of 20 thousand kuna. Our observations also refer to the financial capacity, both legal and natural persons, because in paragraph 1 of this proposal the law actually states that the financial capacity is acquired by a legal or natural person who has at his disposal assets of at least 65 thousand kuna. In addition, Article 10(4) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council provides for the establishment of the European Parliament and of the Council within the meaning of Article 10(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council of 15 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2006 (OJ L 298, 30.12.2013, p. 1). Which in some sense is a good proposal but we will get and have big problems as item 4. says by entering the Republic of Croatia into full membership, there will be large legal and physical persons in road transport who will have problems with obtaining or exercising road transport licenses. Then we need to work further on who has the authority to issue licences around the state administration, about administrative offices that issue or concessions or some other paper needed to obtain licences. We agree with the opinion of the Legislative Committee, which points to the text of this Act which is actually unacceptable in its express, legal and linguistic and grammatical sense, where, for example, they say that one word of "getting, assignment, issuing, excerptation" all of these same licences, then on the conclusion of contracts and the determination that certain contracts or licences do not exist which we consider to be in the translation of this law of these grammatic and nootechnical errors. We will support this bill, but by the second reading we will certainly give a different attitude to the second proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22158	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22159	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. It is good that this is the first reading, not the first and second emergency procedure, because that I would not participate in the debate, I also use the State Secretary's call to try and try and help them to remove those parts of the Law that we are now assessing in order not to be acceptable to us. As a result, I will concentrate in my brief discussion only on three articles of the Law, so a very small number but in three areas where there can be the biggest confrontation ai competition, in areas where there can be the most muddy and those provisions of the laws which can positively or negatively affect the satisfaction of the user of the services of passengers. The first is Article 26, which regulates the issue of line transport permits. Each bus carrier shall be given the opportunity to carry out this work, so as to obtain permission to drive a certain line regardless of whether it is in the county or in the county line. Because it's all before and after it doesn't make any sense and influence if this license is missing. I'm not sure, but it seems to me that the law stipulates that the award of those permits goes on principle who gets it, so it would kind of write it, but I'm not sure that for a single theist line you can issue more permits. What if there are more candidates for one and the same line and they all meet the requirements of the law, who's going to get a license for that or those lines. There are no public call institutes, no competition institutes, for one, two, or three or all of the lines that after 5 years when the permits stop we want to introduce or especially new lines that we need to open in the interest of passengers because in some area a factory, school, public institution, a modernized road where it was not possible to introduce a line transport before. I therefore propose that the question of the procedure, whether the county body or the ministry grants permission, be regulated in such a way that it comes by invitation or competition. Prescribed conditions and certain priorities. Because if we put only such provisions, I'm afraid the only criterion will be who first came for permission. The second area where I would like to help in the better text of the law is Article 31, which speaks of the alignment of the timetables, so it is said that it is consistent with the chambers that are one and the other which are organisations or associations of entrepreneurs and they will act as the Czech associations of entrepreneurs, however, the timetable number of lines when it comes and when it comes and how many of these lines we have in the morning or in the evening is of the interest of consumers, passengers, bus users. It often happens that the issue of timetables is adjusted to some other lines before, the silent arrangements of several lines, and so far in this proposal of the law, consumers have no possibility of affecting what kind of timetables they will be. So I think it would be extremely good and since Croatia has an increasing number of civil society organisations that gathers and protects consumers' interests to scout the possibility that even finally consumers can also influence the user's schedules. And when chambers discuss or agree to have an obligation to discuss with those organisations or associations that exist. What else are we going to do, who we're going to set up our schedules for? Third point of Article 44 of the carriage of pupils. The proposal for a law fully solves the problem of special line transportation for primary school students, workers, company employees, institutions and businesses. But I think that instead of such provisions, such definitions would be far more useful to use neutral expressions such as educational institutions because, for example, according to the current proposal, special line transportation could not be introduced for high school. And how do the carriers work? Quite accidentally, if they have to translate passengers, students from one city to another through the third, then introduce one line from city A to city B and another line from city B to city C. What's the secret? Each is a new line, the price is determined at a start of 0.3 or 0.5 kilometers by a fixed amount and instead of having tickets cost monthly 700 kunas cost 900 or 1100 because you have to sum up the prices of two lines. Since this area is also dynamic, given that we have an increasing number of educational institutions that are not necessary in large city centres, I think this article could enable educational institutions, secondary schools, especially those who want to get students from areas that are not so close, we can introduce or set up specific line transports and bring students to their schools, under well-defined conditions, because one line will be one price and not two lines and two prices. No proposal I hope is contrary to the basic wish of the legislator, and that in this time until the second reading solutions can be found, and that the issue of line transportation permits, alignment of timetables and the transport of pupils of all educational institutions can be solved, because the current regulations simply did not make it possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22160	Thank you. This is what we ended up discussing in clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. The word has a distinguished representative, Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22161	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since this is the first reading of the law I won't owe, I'll try to process some of the points that I'm interested in in in in the second reading. I'd like to look back on just one point on which I've submitted the amendment, counting that this is a first and second reading procedure. In Article 34, the current text of the law stated that bus tickets were sold in organised sales places, except where these organised sales venues could be sold on the bus itself. It now states that bus tickets can be sold on the bus itself regardless of how otherwise organised their sale. I don't know what the proposal was really about, but I know for a fact that on the mass of bus stations in Croatia, it will cause rust and collapse. Namely, the bus ticket is a couple of kunas cheaper than at the register because bus station services are not paid and everyone is trying to buy a ticket on the bus. At the Zagreb Bus Station for 25 years I have been traveling there Zagreb-Karlovac and I know the perfectly good situation it will cause Russia. Also on smaller bus stations. So I would ask the Proposer if it did not oppose the concept, I do not see where he would object, to return to the previous legal solution in the current law as it was in Article 34. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22162	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of Shima Lucin. Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22163	I thank Mr. Vice President, I am only pleased to point out that this law will experience changes for a second reading, I will make written remarks through which I have received, of course, from carriers across the crafts chamber from my county, and from the association of Croatian road carriers and in that branch, which makes an important economic branch according to the 2002 data, which was about 9% of the total gross foreign exchange inflow I am talking about international transport, of course, it is also a significant inflow into the budget and domestic economy, so I am glad to introduce order and to curb the grey market in that dam, that both through licenses and through the control of the use and licenses that we have to some countries, so I am pleased to reward those who participate with all their costs through legal in the budget, and to combat the grey market in this dam. And, of course, I will not have to make any comments at this time in the form of amendments, I hope that the motioner will respect them, and that until the second reading he will consult the profession, so I assume that this was also done for this bill, that Croatian road transporters and those involved in the mandatory chamber system will listen, and we will all contribute together to one text that will benefit everyone concerned and who will have to implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22164	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22165	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The obligation to bring Croatian legislation into line in the field of transport is one of the provisions of the Stabilisation and Approaching Agreement. The existing law is partly in line with European Community legislation, since the acquis of the European Union has been extended in the area of transport, I support the amendments to this law and its alignment with the standards of the European Union. According to the Ministry of Transport, 13 thousand 150 vehicles in passenger transport are licensed in Croatia. It is licensed in international transport 261 carriers with 943 buses. As regards imports of goods into the Republic of Croatia, it is apparent in tonnes that domestic carriers carried 333 thousand tonnes more than they were transported by foreign carriers. The Republic of Croatia has transport contracts with almost all countries in the principle of reciprocity. What bothers our carriers, and what they warn about is the lack of permits mainly for transport to Italy and Austria. This results in an increase in the number of carriers engaged in international transport. Of course, more order is needed in that part because too many carriers and capacities lead to unfair competition. This Law on road transport, except as it will comply with European Union legislation, will also allow for equalisation of the conditions for access to road transport activities in line with European standards, respecting the specificities of the Republic of Croatia. The documents adopted by the draft law relate primarily to the adoption of competition elements in the performance of the transport activity, which relate to the making of a public call for all interested in carrying out line transport on lines for which licences have been annulled before the expiry date or are not renewed. And the conclusion of individual boards of the Croatian Parliament is evident that everyone supports the amendments to that law but that they have a lot of amendments. I therefore support the proposal that this, that this be the first reading, and that until the second reading, the Government will coordinate the proposals of the Board of the Croatian Parliament, as well as the Croatian Chamber of crafts, which the promoter has accepted in his presentation, and I am particularly pleased. In my court, it is necessary to coordinate and define the provisions relating to the transport for my own purposes, and I also believe that it is necessary to define the age of buses and freight vehicles for public transport, since there is a similar provision governing transport, imports of passenger cars and freight vehicles. It does, because there were more incidents with buses and cargo vehicles. The determination of the corridor for the transport of dangerous cargo and the way it is transported is a strategic interest in preserving the country's natural beauty. In that part, the obligation to transport freight vehicles by rail should not be cut off, especially if they are transiting through the country of Croatia. The government will certainly consider amendments that improve this legislative proposal and bring it into line with European Union standards, so I support the adoption of this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22166	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, vice president of home Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22167	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In fact, the best thing that has happened in the introduction of the real debate is the idea that has been adopted by the proposing representative and on the basis of the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of HSP Representatives and others individually to conduct a debate on this law in the first reading or to give up the emergency procedure. The fact is that out of the 110 articles of this Law, he made observations on 56 articles and I put these serious remarks to the Committee on Lawmaking without principled objections in the introductory part and without, of course, nomotechnical, edible, grammatic and other remarks which he further mentioned. Therefore, when it is viewed from this aspect alone, it is obviously independent of the concept of the law and regardless of the need for this law to be adopted as soon as possible and as soon as possible to comply with the European Union directives or community directives, however, it is good that it goes in two readings and that between the first and second readings, these shortcomings are addressed. A large number of remarks already made by colleagues on behalf of clubs as the authorisation of units of regional self-government that they can actually carry out tasks of state administration which they cannot because they are local or regional self-government. There is also a question that different expressions are used in an inappropriate way and unacceptable to the same terms in the text. There is a question of establishing the guarantee of the Republic of Croatia that activities in basic road transport can be carried out by foreign legal and natural persons, which is a constitutional expression. It is sufficient to prescribe that certain activities may be carried out by foreign and domestic legal and natural persons. There's no need to put a guarantee on anything because it's a very serious question. Of course, there are other principles that I will mention only one of which is that regarding the assessment of the situation and the claim that this law is partially aligned with Directives 98 76 and 96 26 and the 2001 contract. However, this part, in part, should be raised to a higher level and agreed by the end, more so because these directives have actually been amended or supplemented through the Protocol and a certain convention. But they said it all in some way and others and the working bodies, and that's why I wouldn't talk about it anymore. I'll talk about three more questions that I think should be addressed. It is necessary to bring this law into line with the legal system in particular with related laws that regulate similar or similar matter. Among other things, this law is totally inconsistencies with the Road Safety Act on road safety and the role of vehicle, road driver and this needs to be completed. The second thing that needs to be done is that the proposal for penalties provided for here is, of course, totally non-compliant on the one hand with the Road Safety Act and, on the other hand, with the Law on Infringements, which restricts the above criminal penalty, and only that penalty can be slightly greater when it comes to financial or tax offences. Therefore, this is a question that certainly requires that this problem be installed and processed. The third and most important question is the issue of constitutional and legal nature. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution says that individual rights and freedoms can be limited by law but if it is the safety of the Republic, if it is about protecting human health, environmentals, etc., etc. Therefore, this law should say that "express verbis" is a work experience, so it is not enough to limit it to 21 years, but it is necessary that a person who drives wants a bus especially on the interstate and international lines must have at least 21 years for the necessary work experience that increases the safety of those who drive in the car. And it should also be prescribed by law and not to open tomorrow a debate before the Constitutional Court that it is unconstitutional because it actually limits human rights and the freedoms of a full-time person, which is more as a condition, so a material condition for fulfilling that someone would drive a means of transport enough to have a medium professional arrangement of course and complete a proper state exam. We now have secondary vocational schools that educate people on road transport from freight vehicles and so on, and therefore I think it is very important that this issue be further agreed or further elaborated and explain why this issue is so regulated. The second issue related to Article 6 where vehicles carrying out road transport and transport operations of their own needs are said to fulfil, other than the conditions laid down in certain other regulations, the business conditions prescribed by the Minister responsible for transport under this law. Now, look, it's hard to say whether it's enough to indicate in accordance with this law alone, so it's written in a big letter because that's exactly what it's thinking, given that there's also a road safety law that makes it impossible for people to respond to cubicity and weights of means of transport to drive for the personal needs of road drivers, and in this respect, there's actually no limit on that question. Therefore, if it is to be harmonised, it should be put in accordance with the law of a small letter rather than in accordance with this law because it must comply with one law and with the other conventions. Of course, the particular question in my deep conviction that needs to be worked out is actually the question of the relationship between a vehicle-specific licence. And one more thing. It shall be stated, inter alia, that the licence may be granted in Article 8. one new criterion. This is "ad verbum" actually taken over from the directive in that classical sense, it is not a legal regulation but a regulation binding on members of the European Community to develop certain content in its legal regulation on the basis of these principles. And he's legal enough to have a good reputation. When translated, it means that it's practically not punished, that it's not this one, that it's not this one, and now two questions are being opened. Article 9(1) states that he is not convicted of criminal offences against property and is now listed. Well, then, in paragraph 2, something new suddenly appears, that it is not condemned by a powerful decision to violate any criminal acts and so on. And now, please, please, there's a very serious question now, and what it means for any criminal acts if it's a violation. You'll be in a situation where it's a banal thing, for example that he had a road violation, for example that he had 0.02% alcohol because what the minister prescribes is illegal and that this violation will be punished and what we'll do in such a situation. Clearly, then, this cannot be a measure of good reputation. This may be a criterion for potentially increasing the risk of such a person being involved in the management of such means of transport but surely you do not have to bring man into question his entire reputation. Because you know what the problem is in this part. That "argumentum a contrastio" if you find someone not to have, that it does not meet point 1 of Article 8, you have found that someone has no good reputation and you have not found that he has not been punished or has been punished and has had an offence etc. but you have found that he has no good reputation. And then in a situation like this, it starts to open up a whole series of questions, actually what, what it's about. This isn't just legal means. A good reputation is, in fact, a category of sociological and moral category that is wider and deeper in its content than a legal norm that covers only a criminal act and an offence. And in this respect, I personally believe that this should be done and worked out. The same thing is the same with Article 10 where the criteria relating to the value of the assets are prescribed. And now, please, if you say in the article, paragraph 4, I'll just take that because I think all of this property is very, very questionable in view of the value of the means of transport being transported in road transport and passengers, but if you say in paragraph 4, that this property must be at least 30 thousand kuna or extremely 15 thousand kuna for each car sitting, forgive me, which is a cargo product that can be purchased as a sitting vehicle for 15 thousand kuna and put into service. Please nicely, this is a provision that directly stimulates that old, exhausted means of transport are being put into operation of the transport of goods and people, and that we are actually increasing the risk of traffic safety in the interest, which is in the interest of all of us, and in particular the protection of the assets and persons transported, and for this reason it is certainly necessary to increase this issue among other things and to strengthen road safety from the aspect of the Law on the protection of road traffic, and from the aspect of the role of one, it is the other two factors of the vehicle and the road, not just the driver. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, buddy. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22168	I thank the vice president of the House. The word has a esteemed representative, Željko Kralje.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22169	Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, we have before us a proposal for a road transport law with a final draft of the law. I support the proposal that this law does not go by emergency procedure but rather by first reading. The difference between the applicable Road Transport Act and the first reading of the Road Transport Law is as follows: the first objective is to streamline the procedure for the entry of the relevant licences. The second is stronger control of the operation of road transport. The third is the fulfilment of the conditions for the performance of certain modes of transport as well as the records of certain transports which were not provided for in the applicable law. Even more significant differences between the applicable law and the bill could be divided according to chapters. General provisions, licences, Community licences, passenger transport and freight transport. In Article 5(5), point (b) is replaced by the following: The law stipulates that the driver for the transport of dangerous substances must also have at least 3 years of working experience as a freight vehicle driver whose mass is permitted exceeds 7 thousand and 500 kilograms and 21 years of age. I'm going to stay with this article and I'm going to show some examples of what's going on and what's happening with the car tanks in our town in Sisak, why and why I think this is what I need. We had two car accidents last month. That, there was a rollover of the tanker. I think and I'm convinced that we know that the passing of the ADR is going quite quickly and sometimes strangely. I think very young drivers don't have a job or a life experience because they go from a simple little civilian car to a big truck or a tanker and simply don't manage well enough. I have a proposal for a solution, which is a polygon that I hold to be, and perhaps within the framework of this Law, one must somehow predict or resolve. I'll give an example that in Sisak INA, the Sisak Refinery offers space. The Croatian car club would also get involved in some way, but I think you should do more. I also call on your competent ministry as well as the M.O.P. to find a solution because really these young drivers don't even have a chance to learn. If we don't open such a polygon, I'm afraid we'll have more of these problems, and since we're close to Slovenia, and Slovenia doesn't think that it can even turn into a particular business, so it would certainly be necessary to put it into function. NOvina in the bill of law is a reshaping of good reputation as one of the conditions for the license. In terms of the extension of infringements from different areas which result in loss of good reputation and thus also licences, which are related not only to traffic safety but also to violations of labour and social legislation, tax and pension, general security, environmental protection and space and natural goods. The proposal for a law extends and a detailed examination of the exemption institute is made of the obligation to issue a licence for certain modes of transport, as specified in Article 7(5) of the Law. In addition, Article 10, which elaborates on the financial capacity as one of the conditions for obtaining a licence, is intended to increase the necessary financial resources as well as to elaborate on evidence proving the financial capacity. The Chapter of the transport of passengers in the proposal for a law shall be detailed in the procedure for issuing licences, the conditions for issuing licences, the renewal and the termination of validity prior to expiry. In relation to the applicable law, it is proposed that the carrier must provide, inter alia, a certificate from the competent authority on paid taxes and contributions to pension and health insurance. Not more than 30 days old. In what way do the conditions apply? Greater financial discipline is being introduced. By introducing a public call institute in the event of withdrawal of authorisations and non-reporting of a licence, which means the introduction and strengthening of the elements of the competition with the carrier. The provisions of the proposal for a law in the performance of specific liner transport provide for an exception to the rule that special liner transport of passengers can be carried out exclusively by bus. According to the proposal, the transport can now be carried out by vehicles 8+1, or we can call it a special transport. I believe this proposal is good, too. We have X places in the Republic of Croatia where a bus may not be easy to approach, where it can be solved by a smaller vehicle, van or similar or where some nursing households are where we do not have a daily of 5.6 passengers at 30 or 50 kilometers, and we have that in our cities and municipalities. And the last chapter is cargo transport. The draft law sets out the conditions for obtaining, as well as the distribution of real permits, which has not been defined by the applicable law so far and that the way in which the licences issued have been used has been prescribed, which has not been in the law so far. The novelty in relation to the applicable law relating to the licence for a tow vehicle, and regardless of the state of registration of the coupling vehicle, only one authorisation is required, and so far if the motor or tow vehicle had a registration from two different countries so there should have been two different licences, now it is finally solved with one permit. So the intensity is to reduce the number of permits. And to conclude, I will support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22170	I thank the honourable representative. We've exhausted an individual discussion with this. Does the Proposer, Secretary of State Breglec, want it?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22171	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll look back on just a few principled remarks. I will not refer to individual comments, although some articles would be mostly or most of them and could be read at this time. One significant part of the legitimate objections to the discrepancy between the Road Safety Act and the Road Transport Act stems from the simple fact that although it is almost the same, in any case very closely related matter, it is the laws that make two resolutely different, two different ministries and the fact that the Road Safety Act was passed within a relatively short time before the adoption of this and the fact that the working version and government procedure of this law had actually begun at the moment when the Road Safety Act was adopted. It was these circumstances that they offered to take note of this set of events and these coincidences, that in the first reading an attempt was made to comply with one side of all objections on the other hand and the observed objections to the net or not long-term legislation on road safety. From a number of individual remarks, I will refer only to the observation made by the parent board. Transport, Maritime and Liaison Committee. And that applies to the age line of the bus. The establishment of the minimum age limit of the bus is regulated indirectly by the regulations of the State Department for Standardisation and Measurement, on vehicle homoligation. So, through the technical requirements that a vehicle that wants to carry out a particular activity must actually meet that limit set quite restrictively. On the other hand, this law provides for an additional mechanism and that Article 6 of the amendment of this Act provides for the adoption of a sub-legislative act which would allow vehicles carrying out road transport and transport activities for their own purposes. They may be prescribed to fulfil, in addition to the conditions laid down in certain other regulations, specific conditions prescribed by the Minister responsible for Transport in accordance with this law. So there is already one measure which is in force and a direct measure which es can introduce the basis of the proposal of this law. Two more things I want to point out. This law is certainly and in this form we have found together a lack of discrimination against domestic carriers. That's the point I have to look back on because I don't think she's right. What may seem to be discrimination in some way and I link it to the remarks that speak of many drivers in the European Union or by the time they enter the European Union will have problems. But I would say that and tie it to one thought, so the entry of a deadline into the European Union will be a great opportunity for advanced technologically qualified for strong carriers. But it will also be a moment of great concern for those who drive so-called. black trucks, driving out-of-date vehicles, and so on. Whether we want to or not, and we want to improve the dam, this transitional period must contain quite restrictive provisions that will be made available to the said, written down by the carriers unless the technological park has been drastically repaired to ensure this crucial moment, however, to their existence and state indirect development. And the last thing I want to emphasize is the letters of the stakeholders. Believe that in this debate, and in many of your statements, there was a lack of objections and suggestions that would have made that same interested parties that wrote to you, which are usually carriers, senses, specifically against or certainly interpreted differently. I would also like to stress that there is also a considerable difference between carriers organised both in associations and in professional associations and united under the hat of chambers of economic and craftsmen, also in very different approaches and in very different interests, in their competences and therefore within the profession there is a significant difference in access to many segments defined by this Law. In any case, the comments and letters coming from the striuk that come and from the carrier will certainly continue to be received. We have put forth effort for several months in trying to comply with those real requirements that have been delivered to us. And I think one major part of them is embedded in them. But now it can definitely be said that the vast majority of those who remain open will not be able to please and that such solutions will simply not be able to be constructed and incorporated into the law because they simply do not exist. Here I thank you for all the useful suggestions, and the remarks, and I hope that in the second reading we will be at a much higher level of consent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22172	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this agenda point. And this is the end of the afternoon session. The sequel is tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the point Final Proposal of the Amendment Act and the completion of the laws on the prevention of drug abuse. Second reading. P.Z. No. 52. And I note that tomorrow's vote is expected at 12:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-30-0.u22173	Proposal for a road transport law, first reading, P.Z. No. 160. The proposer accepted a proposal from the Legislative Committee to hold the debate in the first reading. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a road transport law is adopted. All comments, the proposal will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law. Please engage. Please vote. Score. I find that with 114 votes for, 2 abstentions and 2 against the proposed conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. On behalf of the Croatian Parliament, I congratulate the International Day of Elderly People today. We're going to - Final bill amending and supplementing the laws on the prevention of drug abuse, second reading of P.Z. No. 52 The legislator is the Government. [[Applause.]] The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, work, social policy and health care, family, youth and sport. You received the reports at the session. I ask the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Health and Social Welfare, Mr Andrija Hebrang, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
