ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22438	Interrupt on tape.... Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. From the SDP Club, we initiated one amendment to the Law on Attorneyship. A few months ago, it happened that the bar had raised the bar fees several times, which made it difficult for our citizens to access legal services. We know that the Bar Association has its own independence and that it can set the price of its services on its own, however, we believe that this increase is so great that it has really hit some categories of our citizens. On this occasion, of course, we have received a number of calls from people who are not going to be able to pay their services at a time when they are so important that they will no longer be able to pay their services and they will be left without the possibility of representation and we think that it is certain rights that are very important, in this case it is about children's rights. This is why we propose a very short amendment of the law, but for our citizens very important, which is that tariffs are given consent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia so that it can intervene in some cases, and we ask that it react primarily and that the issue of party representation that requires restraint, determination of paternity and motherhood and the decision on which underage children will live. So, the question of who the child is going to live with, the issue of restraint, and the question of determining paternity and motherhood are very important things for every family, which is why this is primarily about the child's right, since our citizens don't have a lot of resources to dispose of, the largest number that we've ever heard of are people who barely make ends meet, they would now, compared to the previous 350 kuna that they had to pay for certain legal services when it comes to these litigation disputes now have to pay up to 1500 kuna, many mothers with children living all month 1500 kuna and can't stay without bread and milk to pay for the legal tariffs that are so high. And that is why we propose that this Law be adopted and that a regulatory norm be adopted which the Government of the Republic of Croatia may react to in these cases, therefore, to reduce the barring tariff when it comes to representing the parties that require restraint, paternity and motherhood and the decision on whom underage children will live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22439	Thank you very much. Do the Justice Committee's rapporteurs want to? The Honorable Chairman of the Justice Committee, Rade Ivas, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22440	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State. At its 9th session, held on 14 September 2004, the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Lawyership, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the SDP Representatives' Club by an act of 8 July 2004. The Committee shall be based on this Article 73. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship discussed as a parent working body. The Committee also held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the amendments and additions to the tariffs on rewards and fees for the work of a lawyer did not follow the amendments to the Law on a litigation procedure. The proposal seeks to address the issue of party representation that requires abstention, paternity, decision-making on whom underage children will live, etc. A representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support this legislative proposal, that it is under way to collect comparative data from other legislations on the basis of which the Government will address this issue in an appropriate manner. In an individual discussion of the members of the Committee, it was pointed out that the proposal in question is undefined in particular in the section relating to the possibility that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should adopt a provisional tariff by means of a regulation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication The state's attorney's law is intruding in the autonomy of the attorney's office. After the discussion was held, the Committee on Justice with 3 votes in favour and 8 votes against decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship is not adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22441	Thank you very much. The members of the Legislative Committee are just starting a session. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22442	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club holds that there are no obstacles to amending the Law on Attorneyship in particular to the provision of Article 21, where in the existing Law on Attorneys, all defenders are allowed, regardless of their property status, when they exercise their rights under the law of their status, have the right to free legal assistance. And to point out that free legal aid is not borne by the state but borne by the Croatian Bar of Law. Accordingly, the SDP Club takes note of the very difficult economic situation especially of women in society, who often appear before courts on their behalf, or on their own behalf and, for the sake of their underage child, demand the duty of supporting men, i.e. fathers and children or their partners, when she is already old and powerless and has not been employed, and has ultimately left her job for the rest of her life to be a housewife. So we suggest that just free legal aid in these things have those persons. So, when it comes to abstention, when it comes to the establishment of paternity and motherhood, and the decision on who the underage children will live with. To point out often the skills of paternity, including motherhood, but the most common are the findings or disputes of paternity very expensive, are very expensive methods, and very few women, I do not know in court practice as a percentage of an undetectable few women pointed to a father who was not a father. As a rule, these are always legitimate requirements. The SDP Club also held talks with representatives of the Bar and they also have no vision or resistance to supplement Article 21. True, something else is the situation with the amendments proposed in Article 1. We also note that during the coalition government, the mandatory fee paid to these alimony disputes was abolished, the disputes of paternity and motherhood, so where the state wanted to in some way to solidarity and help the social group. To note, too, until 1991 or 92 in Croatia, these disputes were always tax-free. But during the original HDZ authorities, duties were also imposed on these disputes. and these huge fees that were often, and in these disputes and twice as much as the bar fees. So that's how far that absurd went. Equally, this is an opportunity to remind ourselves and remind the government that she has promised, because the SDP Club has proposed the establishment of an alimony fund, because all of these things are connected. The government quickly, hastily, and vice president reacted that the government would come out alone with such a proposal, of course, to the day of today there is nothing. In fact, he's also giving up that announcement that was eight, nine months ago. For the absurdity of these things to be, and the greater Minister Schucker himself has called the Ministry of the Family to secure the funds and indeed lay there some minor assets, but they do lie still. Here's the end of the year, the execution on that item is zero, zero, and nothing was done there either. Therefore, there are neutral assets. The finance minister also said he secured some funds. And still almost a whole army of minors, or their mothers, as the most often empowered persons representing these children, continue to walk in courts. Therefore, surely this problem would have been milder and smaller if the government had reacted at least as she had promised to react, but again a lot of words, a little bit of part. Therefore, the SDP Club proposes that, at the end of the day, it also proposes that the Government meet this proposal, that the Parliament correct its opinion, that the Parliament accept this legitimate demand at this point in time as regards Article 2. Because this justification, which the Government states, is just now collecting parallel representations of tariff adoptions in Europe, is not standing at all, because these shows were obtained when the Law on Laws was adopted in 1994. So that's not true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22443	Thank you. HNS club PGS, distinguished representative Nikola Vuljanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22444	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I think it's extremely good that this law is being discussed in this term that television broadcasts, because again it's one issue that's of really important interest to the endangered social parts of the Croatian population, to children in decomposing marriages, to pensioners who don't have to pay, they don't have the money to pay lawyers, for people who aren't directly at risk of receiving social aid, but still can't afford to protect them from the judicial authorities, because they don't have enough funds, without jeopardising their basic existence to pay lawyers. But the two are actually, the two are part of this law and the two purposes I need them to make me look separately. The first is to sort of remove this veil of secrecy from the autonomous law of the Bar Association to determine tariffs as he thinks it should at that point and as he thinks it's justified at that point, and that no one can say anything about it, because that I don't know how he gets into the foundations of democracy, does it? It just doesn't seem true. Perhaps such a bill is so short and without incursion in the rest of the Law on Attorneyship is incomplete indeed. Perhaps such changes to the law can't really apply right now, I'm talking about that part about the barrage tariff. But it is not true that this law tariff is not regulated anywhere in the world and that lawyers have an autonomous right to set a tariff exactly as they think they should. For example, in German legislation, the situation is relatively simple. There are three parts of the procedure. It's one thing to take an act, the other to go to court, and the third is a case of proof. Each part has its own tariff. Perfectly whether a lawyer goes to court two, three or five times, his customer will pay one price, the price prescribed by tariff. If something similar were to be introduced into our law, one could already know at the beginning of a court procedure that he had conducted perfectly clearly how much this procedure would cost him. Today it's completely impossible. Procedures can be extended for years and decades. A man can go bankrupt by entering a procedure that initially seems to him to be clear, perhaps naive, perhaps something that can be resolved relatively quickly. Therefore, such transparency and the need for a lawyer to know in advance how much a particular procedure will cost him is necessary if we want the lawyer's chamber to autonomously determine its price. The second part of these amendments and the addition of the law is actually about trying to protect one part of the population of children and most often mothers, although it may be better to say a parent in the divorce process, in the process of determining paternity, motherhood and all of these, in fact, the procedures that are stressful and that destroy the childhood of the child that is concerned. Now that the child has already found himself in that situation that parents cannot but try to share it, it would be at least fair and fair from the legislator to protect that child from further poverty through the large fees paid in such proceedings. All in all, we think that the reason for the adoption of this law is completely justified and that in this direction the law should certainly be changed, especially as regards this second part, so on fees paid in divorce and related litigation. The first part of the amendments and the addition of the law we think should be shaped in a broader way by amending not only this provision of the law but also of others related to it, so that the whole system can make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22445	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22446	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So before us, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship, Intention and Amendments was presented by the promoters and, of course, we discussed first and foremost the intensity of this law in the Club of HSP Representatives. Therefore, since the club supports HSP advocates in principle all proposals aimed at establishing the rule of law, i.e. restricting self-will and establishing social justice, we support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship proposed by fellow SDP representatives. However, we point out that the Law on Attorneyship was passed in 1994, the one in force, and that the SDP could propose amendments and additions to the Law on Lawyership or propose even a new law that would rightly regulate the issue of bar fees, i.e. to prevent arbitrary savagery in determining the legal tariffs. Just because colleagues from the SDP thought and did one thing yesterday, and now they think and do another, doesn't mean that colleagues are perverts, but that means that their change of opinion means they're smarter today than they were yesterday, which is certainly commendable. The intention of this bill is expressed through the assessment of the situation, but unfortunately by our court, the manipulation of the proposed articles does not follow that good thought. In fact, the assessment of the situation shows the intensity of the promoters to help certain persons who are found in a difficult material position, a quote, but concludes from the proposed Article 2 that I again quote "who exercise the right to support, determine fatherhood and motherhood and who will be living with underage children". It is therefore clear that persons who, in such disputes where paternity or motherhood is determined, or who are to be lived by underage children, do not only have to belong to persons in a difficult material situation, but that such disputes on the determination of paternity, motherhood or the care of minor children lead members of both the poor and the rich alike. However, because of the good intensity of the promoters, we support this bill and expect our colleagues from the SDP to soon support the recent proposal of the Croatian Party of Rights, which will systematically resolve the issue of legal tariffs and represent the parties in the spirit of the Central European continental legal tradition of civil law, and not some others, which, unfortunately, we are increasingly importing and in the context of European standards, and with respect of course to the principles expressed in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, particularly the one on the Republic of Croatia as a social state, which has obviously missed or escaped from the view of the Croatian Bar of Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22447	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22448	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is an incorrect allegation by his colleagues that SDP, while in the coalition government, could have changed something that never happened. Because I hope that fellow Rogers is known that tariffs are so terrible, so they were decent, but that they were actually raised only a few months ago and that this was simply a reaction, in fact, partly to the high tariffs that were introduced I don't know about four or five months ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22449	Okay, how is that a correction to an incorrect quote now? The claim by MP Rožić, who speaks on behalf of the HSP Club, was that the ruling coalition could then change or propose to amend this Law on Lawyership. You are now correcting one political qualification, one possibility which, according to his political judgment, was expressed on behalf of the HSP Club by MP Rožic. I don't think it's about correcting an incorrect quote, but it's about a region of whether you could suggest or not. My colleague Rosic, please don't go with the breach of the Rules of Procedure because it's not working, but let's see that... It's not a correction. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] One questionable claim was whether or not the Government could. Please, on behalf of the promoter, honourable representative Milanko Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22450	Well, here's the correctness of it, as a proposer, I'll take the opportunity just to say two things. What my colleague Rosic said on behalf of the HSP Club that we could change the Law on Attorneyship. We didn't change it because we didn't have the need to intervene in this part of it, because the bar full eight years ago hasn't changed its tariffs and changed them a few months ago and precisely because of such a significant and large increase in those tariffs we reacted this way. And secondly, about the things we've done in that part in the past three and a half years, very briefly only that we've halved the court fees by 50%, and for these cases that we're talking about today determining paternity, motherhood, determining who the child is going to live with, and alimony, we've abolished the court fees, so they're zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22451	Thank you. The HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22452	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the HSS Club will support this, but also all those bill proposals that go in order to reduce the monopolization of the right to anything as much as possible. This is one of the laws that wants to open constitutional categories to be available as soon as possible to a wider circle of citizens. Today when it comes to legal aid, it is no longer just a legal norm. Legal aid today is a deep social, social, humane, civilizational, but particularly an existential issue. The question of survival because from birth to death every one of our citizens lives in constant conflict and relations with the institutions of the judiciary, with a check of legal norms and without legal help simply to a citizen and to a man is impossible to live. Of course, it is the task of every civilised society and every social community to allow this relationship as an equal right for all to use this legal aid, but also for access to justice to be in line with all their needs. Since it's been said that there are monopolies in society, so we say that we have a financial monopoly that has mastered the structure of financial relations, capital, we have a monopoly of importers who have mastered our production consciousness, so they declare that consciousness unnecessary because they say there's no need for us to produce much. There's only one more monopoly that's worse than these 2 monopolies, and these 2 are in themselves tremendously devastating and bad for every society, which is a monopoly or monopoly of the judiciary. Or, translated, the inequality of citizens to use access to justice in the same way, and they cannot use it in the same way because the state that has its preamble to the social state unfortunately failed to ensure the equality of that approach. And that is why, above all, our citizens are witnesses, especially those who cannot achieve this legal aid, that they can be played, deceived, embarrassed and that they can't even make their most clear rights stemming from either paternity, or motherhood, or from the right to a child who has not turned 18, either from the right of not certain property or movement. Unless they have money and they have no support in society, they become poor, dissatisfied, in one word, people who have rights but are not part of society. So we're talking about these people we took away from the rights they once had, which is that they have the right to legal aid for free of charge. The bar, it should be noted, has provided this legal aid, but clearly, you have to prove the right to have that legal aid. So you don't have enough resources and then the bar gives you free legal help. True to will, sometimes courts had such legal aid and were not meant to prove that you were unable to do so, but use that legal aid. What is the point of this proposal? This proposal has one far-reaching task. Unbound whether the Government agrees with such a proposal or not, it has one more important message of society that sublimates within itself and all those who are in some way advocates, who are lawyers of someone. As we are here today, lawyers of those citizens who have chosen us, and I always advocate the right for everyone to make it their right clearly, publicly and without language hair just says here where the place is, speech and where it is to conflict different phenomena, contents and politics. There is often no right to such a right in the public, and it is often the right to do so, and in this House of Nations is trying to misinterpret and then we are bringing citizens who are watching it all together into even greater, deeper doubt, and they are in doubt anyway because they cannot exercise their constitutional rights, and one of the most important rights, the right to defend their rights through legal norm or through legal aid. That's why this legal aid, it has one far-reaching basis, and it's good, Mr. President, that through the public and allowed everyone to talk from this subject and that it sublimes within itself all of our responsibilities as Parliamentarians, which we have as citizens and as people. Because politics must be neither above the citizens nor above the people's needs. It must be in that position, and often the message from this Parliament is not at the level of responsibility, it is not at the level that we are representatives of citizens and that we worry about their rights, about their difficulties, about how they would like the policy to be in their position. They don't have the right to express themselves. Political parties have also become in some way blocked by these systems that need to contribute right now to better understanding those who are involved in politics in order to work on the common good and those who are tasked with listening to whether this policy is doing it properly. Of course, I will not open the review and recapitulation of our overall social and political relationship with us, but in any case, the development of freedom, thought and right of expression in Parliament directly finds a basis for those people who look at us, those who are humiliated, those who are injured, and that is why it is very important to send messages from this Parliament...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22453	Comrade Markov, let's stick to the Doctor's Tariff Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22454	Well, just to point out the importance of these tariffs that are normally causing, clearly, the dissent of citizens. Why the mood? First of all, what was not sufficiently explained to them, and the company did not take those measures that could have taken that tariffs that may have been justified in some cases, but in most cases did not, must be under the supervision regime of the central government. Why under the regime? Well, because we're a state that's not deprived of social differences. It is precisely because of these social differences, and it seems to me that the Minister of Justice has promised to come here in time to us just such a limiter that will limit the level of tariffs and services and that our citizens will be allowed to have access to that legal aid. This wide-ranging design is in fact only in the function of our responsibility to citizens, and this law is primarily submitted because of underage children, because of parents either mother or father, because of all those whose life is in these most difficult circumstances that can happen to anyone, the most difficult if they are left without such legal help. That is why, by appealing to mutual understanding, to respect and to the creation of those messages that I will not go for to poison anyway the bad relationships that exist, I want to support this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Attorneyship and I absolutely hope that the Government will also come out with a full draft law on attorneyship that should reconcile all the differences that exist today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22455	Thank you. The HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Emil Tomljanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22456	Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State. Here is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship, and I would like to point out on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community that we do not support the amendment of the Law on Attorneyship and, first of all, for the first reason stated in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 27 August 2004. In accordance with the conclusion of the Economic and Social Council of 6 July 2004, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Lawyerships is under way and after the collection of comparative representations of other legislations as a comprehensive expert and social analysis of these issues will be addressed in an appropriate manner. Furthermore, the proposal itself regulates the way in which the remuneration tariffs and fees for the work of lawyers are to be adopted and, on the other hand, the proposed provisions want to extend the circle of persons who are obliged by Croatia to provide legal assistance free of charge for those categories of the population most socially vulnerable and cannot, for these reasons, exercise the right to a lawyer's or in this respect, judicial protection. I would stress that the applicant's intensity is acceptable in terms of the need to resolve the issues mentioned above in a different and more qualitative manner. On the one hand, however, it is disputed that the speed and urgency of the conduct and the adoption of the law without previously obtained opinions of all interested persons, in the first place, I mean the bar and all those entities that are directly or indirectly involved in judicial proceedings where the presence of a lawyer is necessary. I note that the Law on Attorneyship was adopted in 1994 and that there is a need to amend it and not only those provisions which determine how to set up the costs for the work of lawyers but also because of other issues which will need to be amended or more percisely, in relation to the attorney's office as an independent system of legal assistance in the Republic of Croatia. However, when addressing the issue of the lawyer's problem, it is necessary to start a legal or constitutional analysis of those issues. In the context of the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, point 2. therefore personal and political freedoms and rights of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia defines its Article 27 as an independent and independent service providing any legal assistance in accordance with the law. Therefore, the Constitutional principle of independence and independence in terms of the provision of a lawyer's service is also defined by the Constitution. Accordingly, as a special regulation, the Law on Attorneyship regulates the Jurisdiction and Action of Lawyership, I, therefore, re-emphasise as an independent and independent service which ensures legal assistance to natural and legal persons in the exercise and protection of their rights and legal interests. The independence and independence of the attorney's office is achieved through the first independent and independent legal work as a free activity, the second being as important as these other elements, the establishment of a lawyer's office in Croatia as an independent and independent organisation of lawyers in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the third adoption of statutes and other general acts of the chamber and the fourth decision on the acquisition and termination of the right to exercise attorneyship. Furthermore, by virtue of Article 18 of the rules cited, lawyers shall be entitled to the prize for their work and to the cost of the work carried out in accordance with the tariff established or adopted by the chamber. However, it should be pointed out here, in particular, that the law requires and free of charge to provide legal assistance in such a way as to ensure that the chamber is free of charge to provide legal assistance to victims of the Homeland War and to socially endangered persons in legal matters in which those persons exercise the rights in connection with their position as well as other cases provided for in the general acts of the Chamber. According to all of the above, we are obviously facing the problem of how to really preserve or form an attorneyship as an independent and independent service, and on the other hand to prevent all of those anomalies that appear in the work of lawyers or lawyers as a whole, and these are not only issues that we find in the proposal for this regulation, except for the issue of the method of adoption or the level of the legal aid and the provision of free legal assistance there are a whole of other things that need to be defined more precisely and there is no time in the sense of this Act to discuss this, but here is also a message to the Government in terms of writing a new law or amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship should certainly be taken into account on these issues because they are unequivocally imposed as problems that need to be solved, from only advertising of lawyers, tax system in relation to attorneyship, the acquisition of the status of lawyers, competition, competition within the legal framework of which are available legal dialogue in a more than possible relationship. Attractive objects and things like that. However, all of the above points to the seriousness of this problem. And therefore, once again, by opposing this legislative proposal, the Government or the Resord Ministry, the Ministry of Justice should send a clear message that as soon as possible, optimal legal solutions are found, not only because of the relationship in the judiciary and the functioning of the judicial authority, but also that lawyers are too often exposed to unfounded animosities to acquire their status and reputation in Croatian society as they do by the nature of their work, for sure and belongs to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22457	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22458	Thank you. While preparing a new full amendment to this Act, he has also been waiting to obtain a comparative demonstration of how the legal tariffs in Europe have been resolved. Comparative display. It's simply not true, the government has nothing to wait or obtain because the government has it in a resolute ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22459	Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic quoted the government as saying. But you can dispute this in the debate of the government's opinion and views, not the representative who quotes and calls for that opinion. Is it a lie that the government is breaking the law? It's not. What the government is preparing, but you haven't corrected that allegation again. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic on behalf of the Club Libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22460	Dear Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the Ministry, please allow me, too, to refer on behalf of the Club LIBRE, to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyership. Club LIBRE will support this Act first for principle reasons because we accept that the Republic of Croatia must be the one who is obliged to provide all citizens, especially those who find themselves in a difficult material position with the right to free access to justice. Therefore, we support articles that speak on the one hand, i.e. ask for the tariff established and adopted by the Bar of Law to be agreed on by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we also support the extension of the circle of those who can receive unlawful legal aid to the categories listed in Article 2 and these are persons who exercise the right to support, determine fatherhood and motherhood and on whom minor children will live. However, the basic reason for this Law is the reaction to the famous decision of the Croatian bar of law that has raised a lot of dust in public, has caused great dissatisfaction because the tariffs have been increased multiplely. Well, let me remind you that the decision of the Croatian bar of attorney was made almost 19. 6th of 2004 and by that decision, the prices of legal services have increased multiplely, I think it is the most important one, especially those whose price of the law firm has been increased from 40 kuna to 500 kuna. It should be pointed out that the way to calculate legal services in the Republic of Croatia is unique in the world. For example, North America knows the billing of legal services at the time spent, and the standard Captain is about $600, so we're almost there. Western Europe knows the calculation of legal services by business and the value of the dispute. And the tariff level is regulated by law without the possibility of participation in the final outcome of the dispute. Croatia is the only country in the world, where lawyers on the one hand have provided multiple amounts for each hearing, and for each submitted submission to the court. On the other hand, they have an unlimited possibility of negotiating the share of the amount of the dispute received. Therefore, prices of legal services per Croatian tariffs of high value of disputes, for example 10 million kuna, are multiple in absolute amount of tariffs in Germany for example. Taking into account the five-time lower incomes of Croatian citizens, therefore, Croatia has up to 50 times as much as the legal services in Germany in extreme cases. An enormously high income lawyer in the Republic of Croatia confirms the fact that in the past year, a lawyer has just reported record tax revenues according to the Croatian Tax Administration. We can also compare this data to our neighboring countries, for example. with Slovenia. and so the legal services are calculated per hour by Croatia more expensive 160 kuna than in Slovenia. The Croatian lawyer's tariff point is 7.6 kuna, and the maximum amount is 10 times higher. The price of one hour of legal services in Croatia is therefore 500 kuna. In Slovenia it is 340 kuna. The value of the Croatian lawyer's tariff point is 10 and Slovenia's 3.4 kuna. The maximum amount of compensation from our lawyers can be 100 thousand kuna in economic disputes, and in the neighbouring country is limited to 10 thousand kuna. So I quote these figures so we can see really what the extremes are in some cases at the legal fees of their services. Today, the current Croatian model, which makes it possible to set prices, is identical to that in Great Britain, where the tariff forms a lawyer's chamber according to the market principle of supply and demand, such as here in Croatia. But the important difference is that the Croatian bar has a monopoly in us, it is the only one, and there are even a few chambers in Britain. This was about how other countries prescribing this problem. In Germany, the tariff is prescribed by a federal regulation, in Austria by federal law and by a decision of the Bar of Lawyers. In Hungary and the Czech regulation of the Ministry of Justice, in Slovenia, by decision of the Chamber, with the consent of the Ministry of Justice and the like. On behalf of the Club, we cannot accept the government's interpretation that this law cannot be passed, so because the government will pass some of its laws, we don't know when. So we ask that he be brought in as soon as possible. And we still think it is important to note that the European Court of Justice has established that the competent national authority has the right to prescribe a binding tariff for legal, sublaw or law of the Bar and that this is not in conflict with competition provisions. The European Commission has assessed, in its report on competition in professional activities, that regulation of the price of professional activity services continues to be necessary, among other things because the regulation of the attorney's office also affects the effectiveness of the judiciary. I don't think we have anything to add to this, so we're just appealing, so get this law passed as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22461	Thank you. The DC club, HSLS, respected representative Frano Piploić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22462	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. The DC and HSLS Club respects the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and will not support this proposal by amending and supplementing the Law on Lawyership, proposed by the SDP Representatives Club, for two reasons. The first reason is that this is about a problem of broader nature, because in this explanation given in this proposal it is said that the issue of representing the parties that require restraint, establishing paternity and motherhood, and the decision on whom the underage children will live, this is not the fundamental problem of Croatia, the fundamental problem of Croatia's possession, whether these people have money or have no money to pay for the legal tariff existing, that nobody here knows, and probably not the promoter. But the fact is that many Croatian citizens from other ages and other activities and layers have the same problem. Noting this problem and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it means that tariffs have skyrocketed, that in some way they need to be aware of reasonable measures, and these reasonable measures involve the ability to pay for these services, the government has approached as it says here in this explanation, meaning the draft bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Attorneyship. So this problem has been identified and the government has begun to solve it, so already by drawing up a draft bill. Furthermore, an emergency procedure is listed here. We at the DC Club and HSLS don't see which one's there, which would be the reason for the emergency procedure, we actually think this is about the use of the emergency procedure institute. Here's why we're saying it. Namely, here are the witnesses today and these days, I'm here 20 days in the Croatian Parliament, looking at this agenda, and I'm a little surprised and I'm making a conclusion, my personal conclusion, that this is about urgency in many things to be obstructed daily and in every matter. What we're talking about here today. We've noticed that certain parties have their own people in various ministries, who report what the government is doing and that in some way the government is going too fast, then it's going in this way with proposals and supplements to sort of...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22463	Comrade Piploić, just one moment. You have neglected that the Parliament has found that this bill is also proposed to go in the regular procedure, not by emergency procedure, you are probably so, so it is a waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22464	Okay, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22465	Well, please, just look back.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22466	I'm sorry if that's the case. Anyway, so we won't support this bill. The fact is that for 10 years at Croatian level, the prices of legal services have not been changed. But the problem, he said only at the beginning, how much should they be increased. Some analyses show that even those former prices of 40 kuna could not be charged by many, many lawyers, etc. But in any case, this problem is present, and it certainly needs to be dealt with systematically. and in some ways we advocate to respect as much as possible the Croatian government and its efforts to get out of this problem that we are in, when it comes to legal tariffs. And lastly, if I were a personal child or an old man, you know what I'd say to some colleagues here, please don't defend me anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22467	Proposer, yes. Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22468	I have to admit on behalf of the promoter that I am quite surprised by Mr. Piplovic's debate, I think this really is one topic in which there should be no place for this kind of debate. The first thing you've claimed is that the problem with which underage children will live, establishing paternity and motherhood and seeking restraint is not the problem of this country. I must say that it would be very good for you to get a little better information or to turn around a little bit, my dear fellow so that you can see how many problems people have around us to determine these basics, and it is primarily about the right of the child to know who his father is and that he is responsible for him and that he pays child support when he has already decided that this child should come into the world. That's the basic right of a child. Children in Croatia have very big problems with this. They're having trouble finding that out in court and having problems while they charge for it. That is why there has also been a debate in this House on the Alimentation Fund and on many other topics where we have tried to address the problems that children have primarily to achieve their fundamental rights. We love to talk about children very much, about how few are in our country, which is true. However, their rights and the realisation of their rights are very low and to say that this is not a problem for Croatia, I must admit that it is very brave. Very brave. To talk about the parties having their informants in the ministries and the opposition parties writing laws to outrun the government is something that perhaps you sirs function by having and sharing people on ours, yours, theirs, theirs. I tell you on behalf of the SDP Club, we just divide people into professional and unprofessional, capable and incompetent. And none of us have proposed this law for the sake of expediting the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We are in the interest of the Government in any way solving this problem, primarily to protect the interests of children, and we have proposed it only because we have had very large and numerous calls from our citizens who have prayed for something to be done because there is one category of people who do not belong to that group called the social group, who cannot obtain status on the basis of their financial receipts to get social assistance. I can't even get that status at the bar to get a free lawyer, but unfortunately with their means, I can't survive together with my kids and still pay very high bar fees. Since the Republic of Croatia has in its Constitution special care, therefore special care for children and family, I think it is a minimum that we can all do together, which is to try to ease the prices of the Bar Association when it comes to these status issues, which concerns primarily the interest and the first child to know who his father is and that father pays for him if he doesn't want to live with him and take care of him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22469	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22470	I have three children, so I know what a child is, and I didn't say what you wanted to tell me here, that I said. I said it's not such a problem to deserve this urgency. You had a chance to solve it, because there was a divorce last year when you were in power, but you didn't solve it. Don't put that in my head right now. Second, I'll fix something else. I didn't use any word "intelligence" here. The fact that you've been in power, that you've got your own people, and I know that documents are coming in confidently.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22471	Thank you very much. You have to hold on, you're new to the Parliament. Correction of an incorrect factual claim needs to be corrected. This was a comment. Thank you very much. Club IDS, excuse me before that, State Secretary Snježana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22472	Thank you, Mr. President. Since the Government has been called and called several times in this debate, and since we have provided written evidence, if you allow a few additional words along with this written explanation. In the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. The Ministry of Justice which is responsible for making changes and additions,... and amendments and additions to the Law on Attorneyship are under way, and the Government will soon forward its proposal to that law. [[You don't understand.]] It will be referred to it after it has indeed done, though encouraged by the Conclusion of the Economic and Social Council of 6 July this year, one full and obtained and made a comparative analysis, both old and new legal tariffs and a comparative representation of our legal tariff and Law on Attorneyship with laws and tariffs of other countries, respecting the practice and recommendations that exist in the European Union. So if you'll allow me, when I've already taken my word and for this speaker, to explain why the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support this bill, while not contesting the need to change and supplement the Law on Lawyership. It has been said here several times that a direct cause for this proposal to amend and supplement the law that the Croatian Bar of Law on Compensation and Rewards of Lawyers at some point in the 6th month has taken effect in July this year, has increased and has raised several times a significant, significant increase, and of course this has brought great attention to the public and citizens' reactions and the need to react. It's bad at this point, I do not justify, of course, that there is no need to justify or explain now that the Croatian bar of law has so increased that tariff several times. The fact is, she used her legal right to do it. Under the Law on Attorneyship, they are independent, the Croatian Bar of Law on determining their tariff and has brought the tariff it has brought. It is bad that it turns out and the impression that it did not happen and that the Croatian Bar of Law did not increase the tariff so significantly, that there would be no need for amendments and additions to the Law of Law or that it did not increase it to such a significant extent. And I say it is good because it is simply such an increase that has prompted obviously the proposer, i.e. the Croatian Parliament, and the Government to respond more quickly to the necessary duties of more systematic and fuller amendments and additions to the Law on Attorneyship which can be touched and should touch questions for the independence of the Croatian Bar Association as a professional association to prescribe and determine such tariff on its own. Namely, practice, otherwise the independence of law enforcement and other professional titles and the limit of their independence, which includes, in any way, the price of their services is not something that is only a Croatian invention or a Croatian problem. This is the work of the entire European Union and all the countries of Europe. It was also encouraged by the European Commission in 2004, where it pointed out the need to review the independence of regulatory authorities, i.e. professional associations in determining how to perform their services, the price of these services to be of general interest. When it comes to the attorney's office there is a double role and the importance is double, because the Croatian Attorney's Office, or every attorney's office, needs to contribute to the effectiveness of the judiciary. That's why I say Croatian Attorney's Office, because our Croatian Attorney's Office is sometimes its role and importance in creating a more efficient and effective judiciary may be ignored or kind of bypassed because everything is focused on courts. And the attorney's office, that is, the way lawyers will perform their services, of course professionally, but in determining how that price will also be determined, can affect the limitation of the number of procedural actions to be taken, thus contributing to a more effective judiciary. As part of this, we at the Ministry of Justice have done an analysis, this comparative and estimating all the experiences of why to invent something if there is a good experience, we will also propose such additional amendments and additions to the Law on Lawyership. In fact, it seems to me that it may have been collected in 94, standing, but it's been 10 years. Until then, much has changed in Croatia and in the world as well. This, as you can see, deals with the European Community, and the European Commission needs to update all of this together in order to modernise and adapt to modern needs on the one hand. On the other hand, our Croatian judiciary as such and in this regard, the social moment of the category of citizens that needs special protection by providing them with free legal assistance, has a very special importance and place. According to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the way this is proposed will not fully achieve success, i.e. not only children. Of course, when it comes to marital disputes and things have special meaning and place, but these include persons who, for example, exercise the right to restraint. It may be an ex - spouse or a family member who necessarily does not have to be a person without any means, or a socially endangered person. Therefore, the Government considers that, when extending a possible circle of socially endangered persons, since all socially endangered persons under the law have the right to free legal assistance, therefore, to cite certain categories of persons outside the victims of the Homeland War should be specifically elaborated and then prescribed. That's it. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22473	Thank you very much. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22474	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State, Article 1(1) states that lawyers are entitled to a reward for their work and clearly, that is logical. It is said in paragraph 2 that the tariff set out in this preceding paragraph shall apply from the date on which the Government of the Republic of Croatia agrees on the tariff, which is logical. Where the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not agree on a new tariff, the existing tariff or provisional tariff adopted by the Government by its regulation shall apply, and that shall be logical. It is also logical in paragraph 3 that the Department of Justice determines for defence by official duty a fee for the work of a lawyer. It is logical, of course, and this Article 2 extends the circle of persons to whom the Chamber, who, excuse me, is obliged to provide legal assistance free of charge. Especially when children are in the middle, powerless, socially endangered categories because the Republic of Croatia is also a social state. However, we are now coming up with something that was supposed to happen yesterday and today, that pensioners will pay for legal services that are also one endangered category. In order for them to be able to now, this IDS Law should be passed on to pensioners through bonds. Yes, and in order for this to happen first, it needs to be done on the agenda and it needs to be discussed. What was IDS looking for in that proposal? First, we are not satisfied with the government's reasoning that they reject the term "debt" but are talking about "depreciation", which is nothing but "not neck but neck". However, debt returns will not be possible through imaginary shares, as proposed by the government only through bonds. If 25 billion kunas could have been allocated for the recovery of banks, then 20 billion kunas can be allocated in a year, two or three, five or seven. But all in all, about that some other time. We propose, clearly, to adopt both or at least to put on the agenda of the IDS bill as if this SDP law were passed. I agree with those who said that bar fees are too high. Maybe it would be better if we talked about them than about this proposal even though it's... He's necessary because he needs to help the weak ones anyway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At least the people say, "she's poor and she's heavy to God." Finally, predecessors who said tariffs are too high are right because we are coming to the fact that legal protection can only be afforded by wealthy ones. It is not good, but it is unfortunately at this point Croatian reality, it is in some way the price of Croatian transition, it is the price of redistributing the social wealth that happened in these 12, 13 or 14 years on the chosen ones and it is so almost certainly not going to change. So whoever has it will certainly have it in the future, he will be able to secure the protection of every species. The one who doesn't, it's certainly so nearly hard to have a question about whether the Parliament here will help him. Just now, Mr. Pavlic mentioned that the highest tariff in Croatia reaches 100,000 kuna. In neighbouring Slovenia, which has twice the income per capita or the average salary of 10 thousand kuna and probably on the material average terms of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia nowhere, these tariffs are not more expensive than they are here. Therefore, you should consider, in the future, strictly, clearly, unequivocally, as soon as possible by law without any discretionary will of any association.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22475	Thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 207, it is time to apply for a 10-minute hearing at 13 o'clock. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22476	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, the government's opinion. It has three paragraphs. The first paragraph says that the bill is not accepted, the third paragraph says who will be the representatives of the government, and in the second paragraph with one sentence and three and a half and a half sentences are the reasons why the proposed law is not accepted. So it says that the government will resolve this better and smarter as a question and that the government collects comparative data, shows other legislation. If the government collects images of other legislation, then we can find it in a drawer, not dealing with something that's already in place. The government, however, does not say which direction it will deal with better and smarter, and that means it remains a secret for now, we do not know. She doesn't even say what's wrong with this proposal. That's pretty interesting. Usually in the government's opinion, it says why a proposal is not accepted, which is controversial. There's no such thing here. You don't say it's wrong and that's why we don't accept it. So one government opinion that we can say would be better off if it wasn't written. Question number two, attorney's tariff. What's a law firm? The Attorney General is one of the pillars of the judiciary. So we have the prosecution, we have the judiciary, we have the attorney's office. Who pays the D.A.'s office? Pays the state. Who pays the court? He's paying the state again. Who's paying for the lawyer's office? The E.D.A. pays part of the party, and sometimes the state. Of course, in criminal proceedings when defending himself under official duty. Why? Because it's a constitution that says that every defendant has the right to defend himself whether he has the money to pay for it or not. In this second part where the party pays the lawyer then she pays the tariff established by the Chamber. That's the law. What is now proposed here? The government's additional agreement on the tariff is also proposed. Why is that proposed? It is proposed because the tariff is dramatically increased at 6 months. It is proposed, therefore, by emergency procedure, and this emergency procedure has been removed, and yet why? So it would intervene as quickly as possible. Not to wait for a government that writes better and smarter and collects data that already exists because until then the citizens are damaged. And there's an emergency intervention here. So while this is urgently intervened let the government continue to think. She's got time. Who's stopping her from thinking? In different countries, when you look at these comparative images you're now collecting, then you'll see, it's different in different countries. We could handle one rule here. In some countries you don't have just one bar, you have more of them acting as competition, then the state has nothing to interfere with because the law of the market already exists. Well, anyone who needs a lawyer can choose from which chambers they'll take it from, which is more acceptable to the chamber and the tariff. Where there is only one chamber then acts as a monopoliest and there is reason for that state to interfere. Therefore, in that part, this SDP proposal is fully acceptable and I do not know what you will think smarter than that. Now, I think the basic question that's being asked here is how do you even get to law school, what's a law firm? Is the attorney's office part of the judiciary or is the attorney's office a free profession? The problem is that it is both, it is also part of the judiciary and free interest and there is this other important amendment to this bill regarding the expansion of the circle of persons to whom the Chamber is obliged to provide legal assistance free of charge. And so far, the chamber has provided free legal assistance to those who have brought confirmation from the court that they cannot pay for legal aid themselves, so they are poor to the point where they cannot pay for their own lawyer. Now, let's wonder if people have the right to bread? They do. And does the Chamber of Commerce command the bakers to give bread to the hungry? No, I don't. Who's handling it? State. It's state business. THE social care system, the establishment of social institutions, solves the issue of those who cannot afford bread. Are there any people that have teeth? There is. Does the doctor’s chamber determine that dental dental dental dental repairs are necessary for them? No, I don't. Who's handling it? State. The state has a social security system where you have guaranteed in that primary insurance and dental repair, you don't have to pay for it. This extends to this proposal for a law on the right to abstention, establishment of paternity and motherhood, and on whom young children will live. Whose primary problem is that? Here we heard Mr. Piplopic thinks that it is no one's problem that it is not a problem either of society or of the state whether children will be found or determined by paternity within a reasonable time. That's no problem for him. I think that's the problem. That's the problem of society, that's the problem of the state. And that's why this issue should be resolved by the state and by all the evidence and all these services should go to the burden of the state because it's not the problem of the chamber, which has a chamber with it. Therefore, given that the parliamentary majority's urgent procedure has been abolished, I think it would be wise until the second reading if most people's will were released into another reading, to consider this moment. And if he is not released to another reading which is more likely then I suggest to the government that, within all his thinking and preparation of his bill, consider taking over the obligation on himself, because under the Constitution she must do so under the Constitution of this country, the family is of particular concern to the state, the state must take special care of the family. Therefore, if this is about protecting the family is a obligation for the state to ensure that protection as soon as possible and as effective as possible, it is an obligation for the state to provide and protect lawyers, legal assistance for those who cannot pay for it, and it concerns establishing paternity, motherhood, custody, etc. So don't transfer it to the Chamber, take that obligation to yourself, that's your constitutional obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22477	Thank you very much, dear fellow Stazic. Replica esteemed colleague Piploić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22478	Dear colleague Stazic, I'm afraid you didn't follow much when I spoke, I didn't say again I didn't say what you want to impute me now, that that's not a problem. That really is a problem, but I said it's not a matter of urgency and that this is how a legal act is passed that will change after a while. And I said nicely that the government and the secretary of state said that the government is preparing a whole solution, so we're not here to politicize, I didn't say that because of politicization. There are far more problems in our society than the one you're pointing out here, so we haven't put it back on as a sign of urgency. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22479	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Reply to the replica of fellow Stazic. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22480	Dear colleague Piplojic, there are many problems in society, there you are absolutely right, there is no telling which one should begin to solve more urgently. In particular, in the last eight months, some have accumulated, and look at people getting harder and harder to live. It is threatened to collect bread and milk, that zero VAT rates will be abolished, that it will pay for greater participation in health care, that it cannot even be discussed in this House, the will of the parliamentary majority will not allow the debate to be held, but when it is already to hold a debate on what is equally urgent then let us not now say that it is both inescapable and irrelevant and that it can now wait for the government until I do not know when the government will remember its law and children, I cannot exercise the right to alimation, I cannot. Because they haven't made it happen in years. So you have a case of Chachi to mention to you, how many years he hasn't paid child support. Well, now don't tell me it's not an emergency, so what's more urgent than what we're even allowed to discuss here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22481	Thank you. It's your turn to speak to your esteemed colleague, Slaven Letica. There's no replica on the replica. There's no fellow Letica, losing her speech on this subject, it's time for a respected colleague, Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22482	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Discussing the SDP proposal on the need for legal tariffs to be agreed by the Government, we are discussing three serious problems and one of the models of the solution to this problem is offered in the proposal for amendments to the Law. We are therefore discussing the availability of legal protection against the judicial authorities of all citizens of this country, and we are discussing the obligation or possibility of the Government to intervene certain moments in certain areas when it is estimated that the prices of these services have gone to this level to prevent citizens from being legally protected in court proceedings. There are also those who oppose this proposal by claiming that the Government in the market economy does not have the right to arbitration and to give any consent to service prices and, therefore, the product of the goods if we have opted for the market. And perhaps this argument would have held water in today's debate that a few days ago the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not exercise this right and intervene most directly with the INA's order to lower the entire margins on oil derivatives and gasoline in order to affect price developments on the market. Therefore, if the Government intervened according to a monopoly of companies that Croatia provides with oil derivatives, on the grounds that this is in the interest of both the economy and the citizens, then the government must not have the right to control the prices that can most directly affect the availability of legal protection in this area. Someone so long remembered the debate about trying to reduce the number of court cases of the Croatian judiciary and then there were some who advocated that the reduction of the number of court cases in particular of those new ones be resolved simply through the rise of prices, i.e. services, so taxis and fees that must be paid in the court proceedings and bar fees, because that would detimise citizens adjectives for every little thing are addressed to the judiciary, i.e. to the judiciary in the protection of their rights. If that argument was then held by this water, then we must also accept it as the fact that prices and court fees and legal fees have a real impact on the determination and possibility of every citizen whose right is injured to seek judicial protection. And what happened in Croatia a few months ago, the dissatisfaction and criticism experienced by the decision of the bar and the increase from those tariffs, where most NGOs, so entirely civil society and trade unions warned that this would have an extremely negative impact on the availability of the right to legal protection in the judicial process. And if so, and is, then this Parliament too had to react when the government did not react in the meantime and offer a possible solution so that it would no longer be. The problem has happened, the problem has its consequences, and it is our obligation in this House to offer solutions that we believe can solve some of these problems. Today, if we were to discuss the government's proposal in this direction and if it were on that trail or some different mechanisms, it would probably get the full support of all MPs. And in the end, which is still a problem. We always love in our society and the state everything to complicate, to do with such a system, system, procedural, price and tariff to be understood only by those who wrote it without being understood at all by those who should pay for it. And I think it would be extremely good for the government and this SDP proposal to accept, and in further talks with the bar, one of the ways in which this problem is solved is going in the direction and that these legal tariffs are not as they are in their structure, so I am now not talking about the amounts of kuna, but about the structure and that the legal tariff rests on three basic procedural actions that are entered into the price or in a tariff such as in some Member States of the European Union, that it is paid for the receipt of the file itself, that it is likely that the interest and the lawyer would be paid not to extend the case, that instead of one or two we have 10 discussions, the amount of submissions that the party submits, depending on the value of the dispute itself, which would be likely to share the interest and the lawyer to hold out the case, that instead of one or two, we have 10 hearings, and that instead of 2, 3 submissions, are written by 15ths, because the current system of which stimulates the number of the process. These experiences exist. I believe that we are still good with Germany and the Germans, so if we do not know such a tariff system to make ourselves a call, so let the Ministry of Justice invite its colleagues from the German Ministry and that joint preparations for a completely new system that will just be transparent, simple and allow each party in advance to know how much the price of the service will be on the subject in which they agree on representation. We will then have the situation that even possible increases in these prices will be easy to calculate for each citizen clearly transparent, which is something that is not transparent, simple and clear, then it is the ideal ground for kittens, mutesh and therefore we have witnessed the dispute of one party who claimed that prices have been increased several hundred percent and the other party that claimed that nothing has actually been increased, because we ordinary mortals do not know how to read and calculate legal tariffs according to the model in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22483	Thank you too, colleague Lesar. Replica, dear colleague Tomljanović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22484	Mr. Vice President, I would like to replicate to my esteemed colleague Lesar, given the content of his debate with regard to the structure of the court costs, and some other colleagues have had such discussions, the elements in the debate that perhaps in all of us, and even in the public, may have caused some confusion. Namely, the structure of the court costs consists of three components. The first is the court fees, the second is the cost of hanging out if it comes to art, the third is, of course, the fee for the work of a lawyer. But these first two absolutely have nothing to do with the bar, or the bar can directly affect that, that's one thing. And I think that according to my colleagues' lawyers, it's also inappropriate to discuss it in a way that, among other things, the legal tariff is special and, in the present case, it is true that the fees for going out to certain hearings by the number of held hearings are true. But the number of hearings held in a particular case is not stimulated by the lawyers, but rather by the procedural powers of the judge who is leading a certain, let's state the litigation process, and they, in their own terms, determine how many and how the hearings will be held, I think it is incorrect for the public to influence the lawyers in order to potentially make more money for a particular dispute. You know, fellow Members, there's a code of attorney ethics for you, I've read that document a long time ago as a young completed lawyer, there's a lot of writing in there, it's one of the few professions that have their own ethics, and most respected colleagues of lawyers adhere to the Code of Law ethics and I don't want things to be about them as if they're based on tariffs wanting to earn or to be paid something for what they often do with their hard work as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22485	Thank you, dear colleague. The answer to the replica of my colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22486	Thank you very much. As always, a respected colleague did not understand or want to understand what I was talking about. Because I haven't tried to arbitration in one word about whether prices are high, too high, too small or too medium. And I didn't say that about it. I did not arbitration or talk about whether Croatian lawyers adhere to ethics or not. I will never and never take such a right to myself in any profession if I did not have my own experience or evidence of it before, it would really be something that would not be allowed to do so. And finally, I didn't talk about court costs as a problem or that this proposal solves the problem of court costs. But I was talking about the attempt to increase the total costs of the trial affecting the number of cases or submissions to the court. It's understandable to me that you've settled on one side and you're defending that army, I understand that. And I only wanted to point out that the issue of transparency, simply and in advance known sizes, gives security to citizens that they know at which price something at the end of the process will pay and nothing more and nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22487	Thank you, dear colleague. On behalf of the proposing colleague, Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22488	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I thank all those who participated in today's debate on this law, and I hope that the Government will, because I know that the law will not be adopted, however, find some mechanisms to protect these categories that we were talking about here today. So it's a category of people who can't stand under the social category, people who can't even afford to get free help from lawyers, but on the other hand, they're not even able to pay these increased tariffs to come up with the solutions they need to get in court. In fact, here in my opening statement, I said that tariffs now for this kind of lawsuit with a 350 kuna lawyer went to 1500 kuna. Many of our families, single parents, live for a month with 1500 kuna and are unable to give their full monthly salary for legal services. On the other hand, the legal system is so complicated that no one without a lawyer can manage it, no one can fight his own battles in court. Therefore, he needs the help of a lawyer and therefore requires this law to regulate tariffs differently when it comes to cases of party representation that require restraint, establishment of paternity and motherhood, and the decision on whom underage children will live. So one of the parents who lives with children who usually proves the need to determine alimony won't be able to reach a solution in court, just because they won't have the money to pay for a lawyer and they won't be able to cope with a very complicated court procedure. Such right, the right to alimony, the right to live with a child is the primary right of a child, the fundamental right of a child, and I think that in this law we must primarily deal with how to protect the right of a child to know who his father is, that the irresponsible father pays for him, or the parent pays child's alimony, and so that the court decides who the child will live with and not regrettably, in divorce parents often solve their problems through the back of children and therefore we have many children who have very big traumas. So let's protect them as much as possible. Once again, I know this House will not make this law with the majority's decision. We are also told here on several occasions that the majority of Parliament has priorities and we are clear that the interests of children are not the priority of the majority party in this House this time. But once again we call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to resolve this issue because it is bound by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to resolve this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22489	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. It's time for the esteemed colleague Kovacevic. He's gone. He's losing speech on this subject. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Because we've exhausted the list of registered agents? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22490	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, at the end of the debate, I only want to add two more sentences. Namely, it is good that the lawyer's issue became a topic of debate and I have already said before so I will just repeat what has accelerated the government as one of the mandated promoters to bite this, bitter cake and begin to solve this issue as part of resolving the issue of justice. As far as the government thinks it might be better, not better, it's the right thing to do, it always feels that we can do better, we don't underestimate each other, but we always think we can do better. In this case, we can, the Government believes that the Law on Attorneyship, when it's already changed, needs to be changed more systematically, more fully, it's been the Law since 94 a lot has changed in 10 years. The challenges, the demands being made and before the attorney's office are different. They include, of course, reacting to the rights of the parties, in the sense that it has already been said here that the party already knows how much it will cost in advance if it already has the right and if it needs it on the one hand, on the other hand, that it already knows how much it will cost. Therefore, all of this should cover these amendments and additions to the Law on Attorneyship and, therefore, the Government considers, already has, obtained comparative analyses, compared them with the old ones and the experiences that exist will make one more comprehensive text Amendments and additions of the law on attorneyship, of course in cooperation with all interested and Croatian Bars. As far as I'm concerned, why doesn't the government accept this bill among other things? It proposes two amendments. The first refers to limiting the future independence of Croatia's bar of attorneys when cheating on the height of its tariff. Of course, there is no need to run from it and, as part of the independence of some professional associations, the issue of their prices does not have to be taboo topics or completely self-determination and can be proposed in this way or that any other body restricts it. However, we are now responding to the recent changes so we respond to the post-festum and this post, now the current tariff so high will not be achieved by these amendments by law, nor is it the Proposer... Nor can it be done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's one thing. So, as part of these changes, the government is going to react to this part that relates to the determination of height, i.e.... to determine the height of their services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's one thing. Secondly, as far as free legal aid is concerned, it is related to the court's approach. Everyone has the right to access the court, of course the ignorant party has the right to spatial assistance and if it is socially threatened that it needs to be provided with free legal, professional legal assistance. The government believes that the way that this circle is proposed and expanded is simply paved by good intentions and for the sake of the welfare of children is affecting and a wider circle of people who necessarily do not have to be socially endangered and I believe that this proposal cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22491	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the final word? No, I don't. I am concluding the debate on this Amendment Law proposal and the addition of the Law on Attorneyship will be voted upon when the conditions are met. My colleagues and colleagues are now giving you a break by 3:00. Resume session at 3:00. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22492	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship. First reading, P.Z. No. 134. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on attorneyship proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club is not adopted. For the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. Score. I find that the proposed conclusion has been made by 69 votes in favour, and 40 against. The club of HSP representatives proposed a break, but I think I spoke to the president of the club Mr. Rosic, then we would go for what has business conditions, which is - Proposal for a Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of HSP, first reading of P.Z. No. 126 The debate was conducted by the Committee on War Veterans and Legislatives. The government delivered an opinion. You received the reports at the session. It's about first reading of the law. I would like to ask the representative of HSP Club's proposed representative, Peru Kovacevic, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22494	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. There are several reasons why the HSP Club referred in June of this year to the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. The first important reason is that the legal position and status issues of Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime wartime disabled families of the dead Croatian defenders, are not properly resolved by the applicable law. That fact was pointed out in the pre-election campaign and we and the club, or HDZ, we gave our law in the process of adoption for the previous assembly of the Parliament, the law passed the first reading. Secondly, we waited six months for the government to come up with its bill, and we know what the promises were that it would already be in the first session of the government, so that there would be the second, and the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, so that I would not list further and what the situation is at this time, such a situation is that until today the Government has not established its proposal for the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families. The last one was information that he was going to do it today at the session. We're hearing again that that part's been prolonged. And the third most important reason in all this is that there is a legitimate concern among Croatian defenders, volunteers, Croatian wartime disableds, families of the dead that the government does not have a firm intention, to refer the bill to the procedure in a way that enters and applies to the effect of 1. Next year. We ourselves know that we are already in October and that it goes in parallel and preparation and adoption of the state budget. Therefore, we have no intention of trying to demonstrate politicize the fact, we stick to our promises, our intention is to enable our bill to reach full consensus in this Croatian Parliament in a way that can, by consensus and agreement, resolve the legal position and status issues of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, members of their families. And that's why I'm pleading today to hear what our most important solutions are contained in the bill. And right now, I have to say that we at the HSP Club have talked to our bill of law with all the county-level associations. So at the county level, we talked and received full and undivided support that this is the law most suited to Croatian defenders, Croatian volunteers, families of the dead Croatian military people with disabilities. Our law was made on the basis of the 1996 Law, we know that the law in Croatia, then the Croatian National Assembly was adopted unanimously, and we are, so the Law of 96 is based on the fact that we have removed all the shortcomings that existed in the application and implementation of that law. And inserted, or classified two new essential chapters. One important chapter is why the dignity of the Homeland War, and the other is an important chapter of the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. In view of what the government is saying in its opinion, if, if the law were done, we had the government's opinion of August 27th of this year and it would be prepared and committed to the procedure, I'll tell you now, it would be most likely that theirs would be more relevant, it would be most appropriate if we had discussed both laws at the same time. But unfortunately, it's impossible to talk when there's no other law. He only has our law. Now I'm going to tell you what are the important differences at this point. The first significant difference is that in our Bill of Law, the Homeland War period was prescribed on 30 May 90th, June 30th 1996. And this period of the Homeland War was prescribed before the 96th Law on the rights of Croatian defenders. Such a period is also prescribed by the Defence Act. It is not noted that in the preamble to the constitutional one, the preamble of the constitutional obstacle to the period of the Homeland War is that it is in the government's proposal from 91 to 95. There's no such obstacle, and we know for a fact that it's a period of one. 1 to 30 June 96. 26 Croatian defenders died. It means at this point they won't have any rights. We know for ourselves that it was up to, who was at that time, Mr. Bebić was up to 1. 1st and Mr. Shakespeare to 1. 1. In 91st, there were also injuries and deaths, and we know why a period was set on May 30th to June 30th, 96th. Another important difference is that in the Government's bill, we couldn't believe that there was a division between Croatian wartime disableds and Croatian defenders again, and that in the way that was in the 94th Law, they were so-called. were a and b pay in the way next. If the same grenades are injured by four, their families, meaning dead, their families will not have the same rights but will be governed in a way depending on which status they were in if he was a member of the Guard unit will have a higher coefficient of 1.80 and if he was a member of the reserve unit will have a coefficient of 1.10. Ours, too, is an important difference, this also applies to Croatian wartime military disableds. So the fact is that he was present and the status is clear to us, it is a Croatian defender or is a Croatian volunteer. Therefore, he will not have the same pension as the disabled Croatian wartime wartime invalid if he has suffered from the same grenade and a member of the Guard unit. Also, no special police were put in general, which had levels and tasks such as the Guard brigades. So you're doing those divisions that existed again. Next, it's the same situation that's the worst, look what's the worst thing that's happened. What happened was that the government in its transitional and final provisions said everything that was brought, which is in force will not change, so this part will refer only to those who failed, the growth of red tape and other reasons to achieve the status they were entitled to. Furthermore, the other important difference is that we oppose the fact that the 5100 pensioners at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute who do not have the status of a Croatian military disabled and who have a full pension of more than 5 and a few thousand kunas and of which a thousand of them do not even have the status of Croatian defenders. In '99, we came to this data with severe torment, General Ante Gotovina and I. And then the ministry in which I worked was the Minister of Croatian Defence and Dr. Juraj Njavro. We didn't give pension money for those intentions. And normally because they were wrong because they weren't Croatian military disableds. And what happened? After the arrival of 2000 changes in power to this day, these funds are allocated to the pension and thus the state budget is damaged by over two billion kuna. And it ended on December 31st last year without talking about this part two. In this way, it is likely that the ministry and the government are not aware that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute legalises crime. In our law, we have that solution. Now what are the other important differences? According to our bill of law and what's said here, I have, I won't read letters calling both the representatives of the HDZ people and the others where they say they are. You said the right to the privilege of importing a private car will also be given to those Croatian defenders who have not used it. In our law it is but in government law it is not. And then look at the other situations that people fall for the daily press. Let's just say one of the press releases are returning to the defense attorney's benefits. People have not read the entire text and are already booking the purchase and everything else, and they assure us that it is in the Government's proposal. It's not standing. There's no such thing in the government's proposal. It is also important here to say another thing that in our proposal, all Croatian military disabled persons are allowed to still have the right to one private car import while only from the first to the fourth group of Croatian military disabled. There are also important differences in our part and government regarding employment. Namely, the Government continues to observe those provisions that were inconclusive, which are contained in the former Law, which is an advantage for you in employment, which says that the recruitment championship has primarily members of the families of the dead, and then Croatian wartime wartime disabled, volunteers, or Croatian defenders. And what's going on here? If so, this applies to companies owned by a state, predominantly owned by a state, or municipalities and cities. In the Government's proposal, it still becomes that nothing has changed and we know what the situation is that, in such cases, when an inspection can be established, such a contract for admission into a working relationship can be annulled, but then another thing happens, and that is the thing that will then be published by the second tender in which the Croatian defender will put out conditions that he does not meet. And that's how it solves this problem, while we in our solutions are meant to decide in such situations the government's commission and that the decision of this commission is final and that it must be followed, and the state has the right to do so because it is the owner, the majority owner in such or similar situations. Furthermore, the difference between our government proposal is important which, according to our proposal, the basis for determining a personal disability or family salary in Croatia, rather than in the opinion, is not the imaginary budget base as it is in the government's proposal. It is also important that there is no difference in our proposal between Croatian military disabled people, depending on whether they have gained status based on injury, injury, pension illness and other incomes. So they're the base of the same act's pay,... places with a guard's allowance as well as for members of the armed forces. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should also be noted here that in our proposal for a law that the Government is trying, not successfully, we are also predicting a special allowance for volunteers from the Homeland War, there are not many of them. There's about 30 or something. So for a volunteer who works, he'd have a special allowance. The height would be determined by the government, and also by retirement. We also suggest that we resolve the question to be so-called. The defence allowance is retired, and it mainly refers to members of the armed forces who are retired as surpluses and reductions in the Croatian military, and we know that their pensions are around 1000, 1100 kuna, in order to solve the problem. It is also important that we, in our bill of law, propose that the rights under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War and members of their families have members of the Croatian Army who are participants in peace missions in case anything happens to them, be wounded and, or God forbid, in the event of death, and we know that this situation is not resolved to this day. He's trying to get rid of some security, but it's not solved until the end. Same situation for pyrotechnics. As far as we talked about the pyrotechnics, they didn't do anything. In our proposal for the law, it is said that pyrotechnicians would achieve in the event of their family being wounded in the event of the death of the same rights, the same level of rights as is provided for Croatian wartime wartime people, or what is intended for families of the dead. The third important thing is to finally resolve the issue of members of the Croatian Defence Council particularly of those members of the Croatian Defence Council who, together with the Croatian Army, participated in joint actions to liberate occupied areas were, according to an agreement between Sarajevo and Split, whether it was Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether it was Croatia. There is no solution in the government's proposal at all, and look at the Federation's proposal, the Federation, and you'll see that they won't have any rights down there because as they get here. And they're not getting rid of anything here. So it's just a small part of these important differences. Furthermore, the important thing is that many were concerned with the question of buying apartments. We return that part that used to exist where the thing was clear, which is that you have the right apartment to get in the way that it was before and then it's paid off depending on how much the disability rate is, or if someone has 40%, 40% will be released, 60% of the salary of that value. So the difference is important and please read our bill nicely. Far more content, far more content and far more precise. Namely, take only in the government's bill of law. He says it belongs to the rank. Do you, then, know what the Secretary of State is? There's no such thing as an army act. He's got a uniform act, he's got a personal act. There's no such thing as an act. You're making the same mistake you've done before. You're in retirement rank, you don't call the police special police, and we know that a day earlier was the equivalent between acts of armed forces with calls in special forces, in special police. You also say only acts, you don't say structural place. You have many situations that people have, for various reasons, been in a secure place, such as a brigade, and have a personal, personal rank of captains or even lower. That they have an ensign. There's a lot of situations like that. It's all in the government's proposal. Well, I've got all the options for the government's proposal, but the happiest I'd be if I saw the final one. It's breaking up because I'm talking about it. The government in its proposal says it is more content. Now you see what content it is. I don't know who's here then, what kind of content you're talking about. So the important differences are the way they are. And look at the most important thing. Our bill, according to our calculations, costs 2 billion and 800 million kuna, but in a way that controls the attention of a good master. And that means Mirovinski won't get out of these 5100 pensions. That Mirinski, in the case of a divisional assessment for the loss of general working capacity, can't aliminate from the state that part if it's a loss from civilians. And that Mirovinski, look what's been done. The variation was made when pensions were raised in the last 5.6 years, when pensions were raised for all others, pensions were increased for these users, and this could not be done because they were tied to Croatian military salaries that were only last year. Therefore, it costs mildly said you have 30s and a few thousand users, 5000 is an average pension. That's how you get to the annual level of a billion and 800. About 60 million kunas per month were spent on disabled people. You multiply that by 12 months so you have that amount of 2600 and the rest goes to this part of the defense attorney's job. Look, I think the very fact that the representatives of the family ministry are going to sign a contract to requalify 14 defenders. At the time here, there's a lot, I was president of the government's commission and the late General Bobetko. We didn't want to call the cameras at all when we sent 300 to the Split Shipyard, there are members of the Committee who were at that time. We know how much shift was made to get the number of unemployed defenders down below 30,000. It's the same day today. So there's nothing to be done. The issue of these shares and everything else contained must also finally be resolved. That's a lot of promise to the defenders. You have to be aware. Just take today's event that happened at the Ministry that a man came here normally gunned down. One is spoken to publicly, and the other is done. That his pension was reduced by 1700 kuna. And other different situations like that that day, just to read you the letters that the defenders write to us. What defenders write to us. Here one says, “When I went to the Ministry,” he says, “I knew more before I went than I did when I went out.” He says: “What they tell me is like Andersen’s fairy tales.” Then: “Is my child entitled to a family pension? The husband died in February 1996. Will I finally be able to solve the importer because I didn't have any money for a private car? Whether the Government will finally come out with its bill of law.” These are the questions that people write to us. These are questions, we, unlike many others, maintain office days so you will see, talk to people and therefore we have support, we will not politicize with this. We are looking for a realistic judgment in a way to be accepted in the first reading of this, and let the Government, on the basis of what it has not yet done, and on the basis of this ours, draw up a final bill that would have been passed in the second reading before the adoption of the State budget and that it has finally been operational and applied since 1.1.2005, by saying that it is important that we also propose in our bill that the name of the Ministry be the name of the Ministry of the Croatian Defence, not the defenders, means that Croatian defenders are the divisive, which is why people are disturbed, and for a reason, if we are Croatian defenders, that the Ministry will then be a defender. Then everything he does. I'm not going to talk about other things that people think about, whether it's SDStio that it was a condition to get into the coalition I'm not going to talk about at all. But I want to talk normally, calmly about how these questions are finally resolved but in a way that does not speak in its letter how better and more content they are and do not have laws. So let's concentrate on doing something that really according to the possibilities of the economic state I say there are them at this point, raising the issues that have been promised. But in such a way that money is managed properly. You know for yourself today that the defence ministry's budget pays off for the pensions of members of the armed forces. And other things we explore, and we'll see that there's a chance that what we're proposing is real. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22495	Thank you very much. The Legislative Committee. Thank you. The War Veterans Committee, you want the word of the President of the War Veterans Committee. And you are. Here you go. President of the War Veterans Committee, respected representative Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22496	A colleague of mine, the Council for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament at its 8th session on 29 September 2004, discussed the proposal for a law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their inhabitants. That was submitted to the president of the Croatian Parliament by the Club by the representative of the Croatian party of rights. The proposal in question was considered by the Committee in the capacity of the home working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 81. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Committee meetings were attended by representatives of associations from the Homeland War. Introductory representatives explained the reasons for the reference of the draft law in the procedure, which are seen in the dissatisfaction of Croatian defenders and victims with the applicable law of pressure on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to refer the procedure to its draft law as soon as possible, which has been announced for a long time. He wanted the new law to be passed this year and began to apply from 1 January 2005. The bill is based on the 1996 law, with the removal of the observed shortcomings and the inclusion of two new chapters on the protection of the dignity of the Homeland War, and the regulation of the rights of volunteers from the Homeland War. The bill was also presented and discussed with associations of defenders and victims in all counties and supported. To implement the law required from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia to allocate 2.8 billion kuna. He also referred to the submitted opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which did not refer to concrete normative solutions and the proposed newspaper in relation to the applicable law, already stated that it is preparing its draft law that will soon be referred to the procedure. A representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in addition to the opinion referred to in the opinion as the reason for the non-acceptation of the bill, has also cited a negative opinion and objections from some bodies to the State authorities of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the Ministry of Finance, on the solutions set out in the draft law. Representatives of the association of defenders and victims welcome any initiative leading to the improvement of their status and are of the opinion that the bill is better quality than the current law. In the discussion, the Committee members delivered the following opinions. the amount of funds required for the implementation of the law of EUR 2.8 billion is unrealistic or too low in relation to the prescribed rights and will be ineligible. The fear of spreading the circle of defenders and victims has been expressed. It is not good that the Committee does not accept an initiative that goes towards improving the status of Croatian defenders and victims by prescribing new rights, or by restoring the abolished rights. Right to benefits from importing automobiles, release of payment of participation and so on. It was also noted that the calculation of the necessary resources to be set out in the national budget for the implementation of the law is good but the revenue side of the state will be calculated for the amount of non-payment of the participation and for the health insurance of VAT, customs and excise duty on imports of cars, machinery and equipment, i.e. the implementation of the law itself, will cost the state budget of more than EUR 2.8 billion. Following the final discussion in the galsing on the draft law, five members of the Committee were abstentions, two members voted in favour of accepting the bill, and the votes against the adoption of the law were not. THE Committee, in accordance with Article 47(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, did not take a position on the adoption or refusal of the law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, and members of their families of the promoters of the Croatian foreign law club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22497	Thank you. That was the board's report. And the correction to the report. Come on. Thank you. In the name of. I don't know now, not the correction in the report, now I don't know how I'd give you my word in the Rules of Procedure. It's not on behalf of the proposer. Come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22499	I apologize to my colleague, and we haven't had colleagues in at least nine years now. I've been representing a case like this that's been corrected by an incorrect quote on the Committee's report. You are the fact that this formulation is the conclusion of the interpretation of legal experts, professional services of this Parliament. If a colleague thinks that the interpretation of the legal services is i.e. professional services are not relevant meaning not according to the Rules of Procedure, it is possible to submit a proposal to the Rules of Procedure for the assessment of our relevant parliamentary committee and in no case can this be taken into account in the context of the correction of the incorrect statement. In fact, this is now a business remark from me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22500	Well, I did mention that I didn't know what form to correct an incorrect quote. But I said there's no correction to the incorrect statement on the report. The boards are over. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, distinguished representative Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22501	I hope I don't get to be too boring for my colleagues, but what's there is. Since I'm the chairman of the War Veterans Committee if some don't know, and there are obviously some who don't know, even though they voted in favour of the proposal. It happened that the following events made me speak in two positions. What I want to say on behalf of the Croatian Party Club of Rights, which is a regular of this bill's proposal, is that we put our bill in the parliamentary procedure in June this year. After long-term expectations of waiting, app and calling through the media of the government's proposal for a law on the rights of Croatian defenders. As most colleagues know when we discussed the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme in December then the Government of the Republic of Croatia today wrote in its programme, and it still stands on the website of the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the terms of the defenders, the given sentences in that item, says the Government has prepared a new law on the rights of Croatian defenders. It's a statement by the government, written, written that still stands on the Internet, because on December 23, 2003, that's what last year meant. If we remember the announcements of pre-election announcements about how dignity will be returned to Croatian defenders, then, of course, with the right of most Croatian defenders and in Croatia, we expected the right party to come to the draft law on the rights of Croatian defenders, which I say and announced and stands in the Government's programme as early as December of last year. And that is the motive and reason why we gave up without prejudicing, of course, that the parliamentary majority will accept the opposition party's bill. But that fundamental motive that made us go into the new law, the proposal for a law on the rights of Croatian defenders is the fact that today we here in the Republic of Croatia are talking about the law on the rights of Croatian defenders, the applicable law passed by the Government. The same law under which solutions are being written today and most of its provisions are implemented except for those which the Government has accepted for our intervention in February and March, and as regards translation, it has stopped this from being harmful to the defenders, all other provisions of the current law passed by the Government, and today have been applied almost a year of the term of office of this Government. And it should be remembered, and those colleagues who were acting as parliamentary representatives in the last term know very well, some of them are sitting here. The debates in 2001 should be remembered in the adoption of today's law. We can talk about a valid law, and that's the law that the government passed at the head of the ministry was then a fellow Pancic. So, we're talking about Pancic's Law, and to that law, we made our own legal proposal. On this same law when it was passed in 2001, the most severe criticism suffered the law from the circles, from the ranks of the Croatian Democratic Community, and it would be nice and desirable to hear if the phonograms of the minutes here could repeat what all colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Community have been saying against today's applicable law when the HDZ government and some other parties are in action. That's the facts. The current law is still in force, and if someone in the term of office in the previous government has been suspended and if some part of the Croatian population has been treated restrictively, then they are Croatian defenders, we all know that very well. Croatian defenders were placed in the position of a generally justified dissatisfaction by the adoption of a restrictive law. All of them were placed under the name of the questionnaire. Under the current law, the so-called so-called law has been introduced. Translation, review has been introduced, and everything that has happened has been happening, which we have all been together and you HDZ colleagues persistently through both the media and here through parliamentary debates have been warned. However, the fact is that today, and now it's October, we don't have a new law on the rights of Croatian defenders. Of course, for that fact there are many other reasons why this is not the case, because this is not my debate only in the context of criticising the government, because we know that the government has been trying for months to discuss it, but there is clearly no quality solution to the problem of Croatian defenders. And I said at the beginning the great expectations of Croatian defenders were from this government. Justified expectations based on announcements, the basis of the programme, the basis of pre-election promises, and the basis of the situation created by the last government. Unfortunately, now we have a situation, and we also have the fact that solutions are still being written under Pancic's Law, so on. "Pancic's Law", which means that there is still a generation of dissatisfaction, that still generates lawsuits by administrative courts, continues to generate all the negativity that this law is, that I don't comment on it now, and it is worth it, still brings us all together, creates new and new problems. What I'm saying right now, we were saying in February when we applied for emergency measures to stop the so-called. translation, so as to at least reduce the pressure on administrative courts. And there are too many reasons to point out the need to pass a new law. We're all aware of that and obviously there are reasons for that. The question arises why so far we have not received a new bill. We still do not understand it in Croatia's right party. Obviously there are problems, there are reasons why the government makes it difficult to pass new laws. It's up to us, we have the right to guess what the reasons are, and since we can't hear or see through the media either. Let us remember here from this speaker of the announcement of the Minister, Mrs Kosor, whom I greatly appreciate, because she has taken on too heavy an obligation and we in Croatia all have the right to appreciate what she is doing, but she is here in front of you all and in front of the Croatian public like this with paper the proposal for a law on the rights of Croatian defenders seems to me the last day in June. After we passed our law, this applicable law in the procedure, you had a chance to see your colleagues here, it said, "The bill draft," probably just the first page, and since then, it's been three months and nothing happened. Nothing happened, and of course we in Croatia are party rights, and probably most of you colleagues are not satisfied with the fact. We wanted to provoke the government through our bill, and we did it in some way, but not until the end of the process to put in place a new bill that would resolve those doubts and those problems that were encountered by the change of laws in 2001. There are great debates about what should be done and how it should be done. Some rights, key rights that have been seized by defenders, which is participation, and that is also the benefits for cars, which are also the reduction of pensions by some categories. Most defenders, of course, justifiably expect those rights to return to them. If there's any means to do that, we'll see when we see the government's proposal. According to our proposal for a law, this can also be solved with existing means. Of course, the state budget would have been cut off for all of these benefits that we are proposing, but we believe that this right has already been consumed once and that the least the defenders can expect from this government is to at least return to them that level of rights they had before 2001. When we talk about Croatian defenders, then we should take advantage of the opportunity to demystify that concept in the Croatian public. Unfortunately, as a defender, I listen here informally to my fellow MPs through their discussions, and I accept the fact that they do not have a clear difference and content of the concept of "Croatian defender". In our public, unfortunately, the perception is that the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders is that it refers to 385 or 390 thousand Croatian defenders. It is true that he has such a name, however, in a substantive sense he refers to Croatian wartime wartime disabled people, especially the applicable law, because under the applicable law, the right of the Croatian defender is called "work internship". The other rights are declarative. If someone doesn't want to replicate and say that the right is primarily for employment, something that can be done at all, which is not girlative that can be consumed in our Croatian state. Unfortunately, it can't be consumed. Other rights are common Croatian defender, which means the category of Croatian defenders does not exist. He had the privilege of the car, he lost it, he had the participation, he lost it. He's entitled to a job internship, when he's gone, and if he retires. There are no other rights. But in addition to our bill, I can invite you to open up the web pages of the Government of Republika Srpska and look at the Law on Fighters, a para-state that has no funds, which is in a difficult economic and economic situation, and then you can easily see that there is a Law on Fighters and that in that same Republika Srpska fighter, means not a war invalid, not the one who was wounded, but the one who was only a participant of that and the kind of war of character that was on their part has nine rights. There are more rights than there are in Croatia's military disability today. And also the basis for their economic situation is 470 marks. So we can take a closer look at the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is very interesting for comparison. In the same Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the situation is similar. And what we must be interested in as Croats is the fact that in this valid law of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which speaks of the rights of defenders, it says that "the members of the Croatian Council of Defense will have the right to the law until the conclusion of the agreement with the Republic of Croatia, and no later than 31.12.2005", which is next year. What does that tell us? This tells us that unless there is an agreement, and we know how to communicate between countries that members of the Croatian Council of Defence will consume their rights at the end of next year. At the same time, we receive answers, and we propose that in our provisions of the law that Croatian Defence Council members should be recognised the status of Croatian soldiers because they were part of the Armed Forces of Croatia. They defended Croatian territory, defended Croatian people, were under the command of Croatian officers and Croatian authorities. Both the Croatian state and the Croatian people, in our opinion, are obliged to bear part of the consequences they had fighting for the Croatian people. The status of members of the Croatian Defence Council must be resolved by law on the rights of Croatian defenders. The current situation is such that they have no rights at all. Some of them have been translated and resolved in some ways, however, the vast majority has no rights, if the status quo remains, means the state of which it is, which means an unidentified date and is not known when Bosnia and Herzegovina will conclude an agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina, members of the Croatian Defence Council will be left without any means at all, and it is the Croatian wartime disabled, meaning HVO, will be left without any funding by the end of next year. It is written in the current laws of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and should not be doubted that it will not be implemented. The agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina, the issue of the status of the HVO, as far as I know is neither indicated by the date of its adoption. The only right and right solution is to provide for the provisions of the Croatian law to solve this problem, rather than wait for what will happen in relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina. I repeat, the law on the rights of Croatian defenders applies to Croatian wartime wartime disableds and there are thirty and a few thousand of them. It is not about hundreds of thousands of people, but it is about thirty and a few thousand users, and these are the people who expect this Parliament to be justified, that all the negativity and humiliation that they have experienced since 2001 to this day, be annulled by the decision of this Parliament and return to them the dignity of which they were naturally promised by today's ruling party, the Croatian Democratic Union. We want to help the Government and offer a quality solution that solves all the problems that we have seen on the ground and for this solution we have received support, and this is well known because we have acted publicly in all the counties in the Republic of Croatia. We didn't ask for the so-called support. coordination at the state level which is close to the ministry in a way that the ministry finance them directly, rather than looking for support in municipalities, cities, counties in the Republic of Croatia and that is where we get support, as will probably get a bill that VLada has been working too long. If there are material problems, then you need to gather courage and tell the Croatian defenders, we have failed you, the funds are not available for these and these reasons, the rights you can get this and this. We're getting better than this situation that prolongs uncertainty, so... we're full of media announcements, so people come to us, so you have, say, in auto magazines, a colleague mentioned, this many titles, the defenders are getting their benefits back, and a representative of the Croatian Defence Ministry has been photographed, and then dozens of people call here a constituency board and are looking for where they're going to take all these certificates out. So who took the right to present the future to Croatian defenders in such a way and to harass this sensitive population of Croatian society. That right doesn't have anyone. It is finally time to come from the government with a proposal to tell the defenders what can and cannot end this growing dissatisfaction which I believe is justified. We offer a bill that would completely resolve it, and so I suggest and invite you to put it into another reading and until the second reading will be a proposal from the government, and then we will face arguments whose law is more quality and by whose law it is easier to calculate the pension, whether by some coefficients or by a clear definition by which each defender does not have to have a college, he can calculate his pension. It's the law we stand for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22502	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Excuse me, Secretary of State. And after the clubs? Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22503	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. The Croatian Democratic Community's club on the bill of law sent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Assembly of Croatian Representatives has the following opinion, that it is worth the attention, is also worth the effort it has made to gain it, and that the effort to improve the rights of Croatian defenders, for more uniformly their division into rights, holds that this law is a law written with great desires, not with the real needs of Croatian defenders. It also resembles Andersen's fairy tales in its texts, and in the financial basis proposed it speaks of 2 million, 2,856,457 etc. Which is actually when you took the complete matter of the wishes listed in this law would be at least three times higher, which would mean that from 3.2% of the state budget, you would rise to 9% of the state budget value of this law. Therefore, he is unacceptable to us. Perhaps in some of its views, as has been said, it might be applicable, perhaps in Serbia-Montenegro, but difficult in Croatia. I don't just know how all these big words are that he's just in his explanation, how he's enforceable, how he's in the interest of all the defenders, I think it's just a matter of collecting political points, and I don't know what the rush on the issue of when HDZ law will be in front of parliamentary deputies, when it's clear and defined that he will be in the parliamentary procedure in two readings and will start with his functional value from 1.1.2005. I mean, I don't know why you're in such a hurry to keep telling him that you don't have him, that no one sees him, that you haven't seen him, and you've explained all his nuances today for this pay phone. Therefore, I must say that there are certain items of this law that could be discussed, which are actually good proposals, but most are unacceptable and financially impossible to cover. On the other hand, when we talk about the broad debate that was carried out on this law in defense associations, then I didn't see you having any act that the coordination gave you consent to this law, that HVIDRA was discussing this law, that the widows were discussing this law. You do not have this document, while the draft law which came out of the Ministry of Coordination of Republic Associations from the Homeland War on 28 September 2004 adopted its conclusions and small remarks, HVIDRA also addressed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and to the Ministry a number of possible remarks you have also spoken about, is seen and can these other rights be absorbed. According to this bill of yours, it would turn out again if they were privileges. We want real rights to be defined by law and that no longer Croatian defenders are called privileged, but that they are, to be called worthy in their rights, because they are. When we talk about members of the Croatian Defence Council, we must say that there are persistent and terrible problems, and we are also in possession of documents that say that the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its Government has also adopted regulations and agreements on the retirement of members of the Croatian Council of Defence and their rights. However, one act that speaks about this is a regulation on favourable conditions for obtaining the right to an age-old pension of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina military insurance companies and it defines who these rights are, what they are and how much they amount to and is signed by the Prime Minister. Ahmet Hadjipasic. He gave rights to all retired members of the Croatian Council of Defence, as well as to all other members of the troops who fought, at first both the Croatian and Croats and Muslims in the joint units of the Croatian Defence Council, thus gaining and determining the same rights. However, the Alliance's coming to power in Bosnia and Herzegovina and those rights were abolished and new coercions were lifted so that for three years these same members were without any rights and were really in our meetings with 721 officers, officers and soldiers who had retired from such an agreement, we gave ourselves the task and the effort to draw up the next session with all relevant people of today's Croatian authorities, ministries and through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to honour this decision by the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina and satisfaction to the members of the Croatian Council of Defense which they deserved and which they have resolved by this regulation. I have to say that when you talk about these legal proposals, they'll be... in the Government, exactly with what the associations have proposed, which is in the immaterial rights that can be done, something and what will be in the material rights, but certainly there is enough time for everything to be decided, to discuss everything with those who belong to this right and then to come before this Croatian House, first to take a stand in the government, and then to this Croatian House, which is most likely if we agree on these rights of Croatian defenders with a common hand and confirm the law that will be valid permanently and permanently and regardless of any change of any set should not be changed, so the security and future of Croatian defenders would be guaranteed and we could plan to live in our future. [[You don't understand.]] I wouldn't owe more on this HSP law. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club cannot support it, because it is really not objective and realistic. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22504	I thank the esteemed representative Djakic. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22505	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Djakic, I would like to ask you nicely, look at the phonograms of the Assembly from the 1st month of this year until today as you have spoken, and even Baron Minhauser would not be your equal. What were you saying here at the Croatian Parliament? We have the law, there will be, there is the law, the defenders will get the benefits, we will solve the issue of Croatian volunteers, we will solve the issue of pensions. What you did to Pancic, you'll answer for it. And read a statement from an esteemed colleague of Pancic who says there's no difference between what you're proposing and what he had and why you're talking about Andresen's fairy tales. In Andersen's fairy tales, the opinion of the Croatian defender I won't give a name and name so he wouldn't be squished by you, who said that when he entered the ministry, he knows less than he knew before. And about that, look at how much support there is, they talk to the media. On September 14th, the government finally gave the associations its draft, and it is important that Mr. Djakic make a difference with the drafts and proposals. The draft is what the ministry does, and the proposal is what the Government gives its amanet, its letter. And look, and one of the papers in the first edition says, "Defencers are looking for an emergency meeting with Jadranka Kosor, the proposal for a new law shocked defense associations." And look at the wonders, the third edition of the same means September 15th, the defenders of more money. That's what you tell the defenders. That's what you tell the defenders. Here, take a good look at this. That's what you say about being manipulated by defenders, and about what you're saying, you don't know. In 98, when the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences was in force, which was adopted by the 96th Council of the Croatian State, the Ministry of Croatian Defence, not the defenders, but the Croatian defenders spent 2 billion and 100 million kuna, 99. - 2 billion and 300 million kuna, here's the secretary of state to look in the archives. There's still all the archives left to this day. The government says its law will cost 3 billion and 300. So you've got a super computer, count it. Let's face it all day long on all matters and you'll see that our calculations are correct. Let's face it, don't be afraid of the public. We're not for politicizing, nor will we ever be for politicizing. We keep our word when we give, we stick to it. We promised, we were in Virovitica too, you weren't, there was Beštek and everyone supported our solutions, see if you want to hear where we were. Ask them there. Why didn't you come to face us? But I'm saying we're not going to pollemize about these things, it's more than serious, it's critical. We were in County, we were in Slavonski Brod, we were in Osijek, we were in Zadar, we were in Sibenik, we were in Varazdin, Bjelovar, we were everywhere and we got support. We got backup. But we're not making false promises, we're saying what it is. And we don't even claim today that our solutions are the best and we won't politicize on it. We're not going to politicize on that. So we stick to the subject, and I'm not going to talk about a bill that hasn't yet been passed, I was just saying one comparison, that it's wrong of one government to say August 27th that it has its own law that's more content and better, and today it's not in this House, and on September 14th they gave it to the organizations, so you see the same daily as it has two reports of the same thing, and nothing happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22506	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22507	Mr. Vice President, I'm going to correct Mr. Pera Kovacevic's incorrect allegations that he kept repeating and claiming we were showing the law without having it. We have the law with all changes, additions, suggestions, with everything alive. Look at Mr. Kovacevic and look at yours from a few sheets. Is that the same law? ... When you talk about your tours, your tours were purely party-type, presenting only to a certain group of people who did not give you their opinion in writing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22508	I'm asking you to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22509	So I'm correcting his inaccuracies, that they got support, that these are, that they are. Here is the signature Mr. Vice President and Mr. Kovacevic this is the signature of 14 associations from the co-ordination of the Homeland War. I guess that means something.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22510	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22511	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Absolutely, I don't think there's anyone here who won't agree to help the defense population. I personally believe that it even does, and then, normally, the question is asked, as some do, whether this population has been neglected. About that later. If it's someone, but before that, if someone's abandoned, it's NOB fighters. They've been stripped of all their rights, their pensions denied, their disability. Why? Because of their political attitude, and NOB's gonna agree with me...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22512	I'm asking you to...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22513	... extended Croatia to Istria, and Rijeka, and Zadar, and islands, and Međimurje, and Baranja, etc. What are they looking for? They're looking for status as defenders of the Homeland War. Do they deserve it, I hold that yes. Okay, laugh. We have to correct, hold, and that civilization injustice done to that category of citizens. Clearly, the budget of the Republic of Croatia needs to be increased. That's not controversial. Is that possible, that should be discussed. But the point is that they have disability pension rights, everything else that the defenders have, and for NOB fighters, it's important. It's humiliating they don't have, but the point is, I said disability and pensions. Why is the government, gentlemen, late with its law? What is the truth about government law? How many defense pensions will end up under this new law that's being prepared at the Department of Defense. Clearly, we have no right to do so because of any population causing this country's bankruptcy, but that's what I'm saying. We need to protect the disabled. Whether it's Homeland or II disabled. World War I. Should any rights be extended from those laid down in Article 5 of this Law? You'd even dare say no. It is necessary to correct injustices towards individuals, to increase fees according to budgetary opportunities. That's the point to me. Few can say, let's say, that defenders in law are neglected. They are their rights to personal disability, the right to an allowance for the care and assistance of another person, the right to orthopaedic allowance, the right to bathing climate treatment, the right to compensation for transport costs, the right to family disability, the right to an increased family disability, the right to a special allowance, the right to provide care and assistance services, the right to provide supplies, the right to an allowance for assistance in the house, the right to accommodation in retirement homes, etc. It's not a dispute if the state can. We're under one standard that we've accepted before, I don't know, seven or eight years we can't even go anymore because that's, I'll say, rights acquired. What happened, I don't know, in some parts of Istria during II. World War II when, for example, 44th in one day, all of Chicago, over a thousand family buildings, were burned, and all of them were sent to concentration camps alive. People were left with themselves, and there was nothing else for them to do but move out. The Croatian state did not allow it, rebuilding it, from Gospić to Vukovar, and that's good. Unfortunately, again, the spaces of special state concerns are empty. Where are these people going? They're going to Zagreb, they're going to Istria, and if they're in that space, they're usually out of work. I agree with the HSP proposal on this deadline for determining the Homeland War from 30.5.90 to 30.6.96. Clearly, and in the event of an accident, all the disabled, in my court, must be in the same condition. It doesn't matter if someone was a member of a home team or a special police force or a guard unit. But I also want to say, it doesn't matter if someone lost their hand in 43rd in the vicinity of Buzet or 93rd in the vicinity of Gospić. We simply have to do or better put these people in a level playing field, and this does not cost the Republic of Croatia's budget. Well, finally, in those five thousand 200 people who were not defenders, who had certain disabilities, fees on that basis, and that question should also be regulated. If they weren't defenders, if they weren't disabled, then they certainly shouldn't have a right to do so. So Mr. Pancic was right in his time when he asked for a revision of certain disability rights. The defenders, the real disabled have always been for review and although I agree that in some moments unnecessary mistakes have been made in the case of a gentleman, if I'm not mistaken, Besteka because it really doesn't need to go that far whether someone is 90% or 100% disabled. In importing cars, I'd be very careful here. You don't need to spread it right, gentlemen. It doesn't need to be returned. I'm absolutely against it. For the disabled, everything, but the defense obligation was a civil obligation, and I don't think in one of these laws we should be discussing cars for defenders. For disabled people, real people with disabilities absolutely everything. To end, I mean, this law can't be a wish list. This law must be a list of possibilities. I want to believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will bring this current defence supplement to the retirement base, that it will raise the family invalids used by the families of the deceased defenders, as much as possible. Defendants who suffer from PTSD will also come into certain benefits compared to existing norms. I think pensions should grow by a certain percentage. Whether it will be 10, 15 or 20% should be discussed at the moment when budget projections are in front of this House. Whether it'll be possible, I'm still for that ultimate reservation. How are we finally gonna do that? Everyone, for example, expects shares. Which we'll manage to settle those shares under quotes, defenders, pensioners, etc. I simply don't think there are any shares in the Republic of Croatia at this time. What are we gonna have to fix first? First, we will have to, apparently, fix the economy because without it there will be no pension, without it there will be no disability, no health care, nor will the status of employees or any other category allow for a higher standard. So, it needs to be opened in my court, and certain economic issues in this House. Without it, there will simply be no change. And everything in the end, as Mr. Bozo Kovacevic said, will look like a big Andersen fairy tale. But I also say, there is a need to open a debate about the participants of the People's Liberation War. Clearly, without the four-year projections of the Republic of Croatia's budget, all these discussions that are before us are almost unnecessary. I said I support the club or the club IDS supports part of HSP's request, but it should also be said that today is not the 68th year when it was realistic to look for impossible. So let's talk once about the possibilities of the budget and try to correct the wrongs. I believe there's another category, and I've talked about it more than once about this Assembly speaker, especially neglected. These are people like, say, Mr. Djur Horaček and those similar to him who were in JNA in 91 years, but worked for the Croatian intelligence service that was announced in Belgrade, served 4, 5 or 6 years in Milosevic's documents, and when they returned to Croatia in 1999 or 2000 they could not move to their apartments, so today they live in refugee centres. In Istria, for example, it is on Kamenjak or in some residential rooms working on gas stations or something. Such people in the Republic of Croatia have 10. Let us not punish these people because they have already made an upstanding sacrifice for the Republic of Croatia. Likewise, and that was also the case with people with disabilities from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Invalids from Bosnia and Herzegovina should also not be left without support, I am talking about disabled people, not others who participated in the Croatian Defence Council at the time. Why shouldn't we leave them without backup? Because they listened to the call of the then late President Franjo Tudjaman and the late Minister of Sushko. Once again, I will tell the invalids everything clear and clear in our neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. Finally, the Istrians who were in the Italian army by the year 43 are entitled to today and receive many, about 8,000 if I am not mistaken for their Italian pension. For the end, it is good to discuss all this but I think that, indeed, in the future when such legal proposals are and the IDS proposal to repay the pensioners should be discussed or discussed previously on the budgetary projections of the Republic of Croatia for at least a period of 3 or 4 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22514	Correction of incorrect. On behalf of the Proposer. Correction of an incorrect quote is the first thing we have. We have another correction to the incorrect assumption. Correction of an incorrect quote by the honourable representative of Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22515	In his very inspired debate, my colleague Cain said: "The 43rd people need to be leveled with the 93 people.". He obviously meant 43rd and Croatian defenders from 93rd. I absolutely agree that they should be evened out, first of all, with an honorable exception, the question that these 43 have fought for should be asked. And those who fought from 90th to 96th were creating a Croatian state. Then now they all need a bunch of documents to prove something where the troops fought, and those 43th fighters had enough to have two others to testify for them and they would have a pension. I'll say one property case, one friend had a pension for 36 years because two others for him testified that on several occasions while they were in the woods in Biokov took a few breads under the cup, bread under the pot. Thanks, that's why I'm gonna get even.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22516	Thank you. You've partially abused the correcting of an incorrect allegation. Here you are, on behalf of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22517	My colleagues and colleagues. In my debate on behalf of the Club, I argued that unfortunately I have information that there are colleagues and among MPs who do not deliberately or knowingly or unconsciously refer to the Croatian defender as the concept of the Croatian Military Disabilities. Confirmation of my words you had the opportunity to hear about this speaker from colleagues Kajin who said that Croatian defenders in Croatia have and then began to list the rights that belong to only one category of Croatian defenders, Croatian military disabled. And that means when he talks about the concept of the Croatian defender then mentions this numbered right of assistance, care, allowances and everything else, that's what only belongs to Croatian military disabled people and in the current law and in the proposal of our law and there are 32,000 and something precise will be said by a fellow secretary of state. When he talks about NOB fighters then, his colleague Cain does not make the same difference, but he says about it and he wrongly says that their rights in this Croatian country are compromised, we know well from numerous discussions that tens of thousands, 70, 80,000 people in Croatia are receiving pensions based on participation in NOB. And what needs to be said publicly in that it is not known how many of those who have acquired their right as fighters, means only because they participated and how many of them are wartime wartime disabled, there are also such records and speak and compare Croatian defenders to them 385 thousand, excluding Croatian wartime disableds who have some rights with NOB fighters is completely inappropriate from this place. Oh, my God, Croatian defenders can only dream of the rights of NOB fighters only to dream of these rights, because, as I said and repeat under the current laws, they only have the right to double-work hours during the Homeland War, other rights do not. They had a participation, they had the right to take advantage of it, they lost it, they had the advantage of hiring, it was just a declaration, let the name and name of the person who hired over the law because there was no sanctions. So, compared to the NOB fighters, this is an absurd comparison, they have received great material rights that they inherited in the Croatian state and today they receive pensions as much just because they were members of the armed forces at that time and we are now comparing them with Croatian defenders who have no material rights at all, only the fact that they participated in the Homeland War, such material rights are not yet available. And Croatian defenders, with the exception of Croatian military disabled people today have only a few declarative rights and a double-term internship when and if they can retire and it is absurd to compare NOB fighters and our Croatian defenders. Unfortunately, it would be nice and good if at least part of those rights that NOB fighters acquired without being disabled and our Croatian defenders, unfortunately it is not a fact, we today, when we keep counting the rights I keep saying about Croatian wartime disableds 32,000 and some users and that is the population, the category we are talking about, in a broader sense, they are Croatian defenders, but besides them there are at least 350 and some thousands of Croatian defenders according to current data available, and that is the population we should think about and talk about. But obviously, this phone booth doesn't make any distinction on purpose, so that means the difference when it's to whom and how it fits. That this fact shows another part of my colleague Cain's debate when he spoke about HVO, he made it clear that he meant it in his debate on people with disabilities. My colleague Cain is the Croatian defender himself, and let him himself say, here is the correction which he, as a Croatian defender, has, there is not one, he may get a job internship and there is no point in fooling us here colleagues and neither is the Croatian public, although there is no transmission. Mr Djakić, president of HVIDRE Republic of Croatia, our colleague here, in his debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, found that by replicating my thinking and quoting, of course, the Law on the Defence of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina here, as counterargument, he cited the rule of the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina. To talk about a provisional government regulation that addresses the question of 700 officers in response to the question of the fate of the entire HVO and all Croatian military disabled, and we know that the victims were if not equal to something greater in the Republic of Croatia when we talk about the number of killed and wounded is not appropriate. I refer to the applicable law published in the official list, here has a colleague Sesvečan has us several lap cannons we will open so we can look at the provision of the Law which speaks of that 31. The next 12th year, members of the Croatian Defence Council will lose all material rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina and these are the facts that can be seen in official documents and the current Federation law, this is the fact that it gives me the right to justify that there is too short a deadline and that there is a danger that members of the Croatian Council of Defence, and this is about disabled persons who are left without any means and income, and it is our duty to make sure that this does not happen regardless of whether they succeed or fail to sign an international agreement. The question of associations, I hate to talk about associations... president of the Committee on War Veterans, however, this issue of the financing of associations if colleagues remember and some remember here when we discussed in the last term the funds that should belong to associations then I was the one who proposed an amendment on the Committee to cut the funds for the financing of associations. As we know these same representatives of the Association are publicly here on the Committee have shown themselves to support every law that applies to Croatian defenders and they have supported our law and at the level of associations at the state level. Of course, we do not have coordination in the Parliament because, as you know for those who do not know, there exists in the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the competent ministry, which means today in the Ministry of Family, Croatian defenders and intergenerational solidarity there is so-called. Co-ordination of the Government, coordination of associations, which are those associations which, according to the minister's assessment, have weight and value in Croatia and the levels deserve in the opinion of a valid minister to sit there and ask them to discuss and give their opinions. And these are mostly that list of these associations is equal to that list when we discuss the implementation of the state budget of the same associations that receive grants from the same ministry annually, meaning that their work is financed, financed by the Croatian Defence Ministry. I think that's enough without a debate to think about how convincing that so-called. coordination at national level. However, colleagues and colleagues, except for those associations, so-called roof associations there are many associations that even have legal personality, because as you know HVIDRA has legal personality at the level of the county and the city of Zagreb. So many associations of tens, hundreds and thousands of associations exist in the Republic of Croatia that have the right, and of course they do not have the opportunity to say their opinions. This is where we gave them the opportunity in numerous counties in Croatia and they took advantage of it because they gave us written support, there are written documentation that we will have, and that we knew that today there would be a debate perhaps even brought hundreds and hundreds of reflections. So we cannot accept as an argument some kind of thinking of coordination of associations, the coordination of associations has supported our law as it will support any law that has, at least for one yota or for one small step improves the rights of Croatian defenders. And in any case, it's not an argument that can go here before you fellow MPs not to accept our bill. As a person who is certainly one of the most professional here, who directly participated in the law-making process of the law for years who can very well argue about finance, here is probably once again in the name of the promoter to explain the facts and the financial calculation that we have long, long worked with our bill of law. And we stand behind him being right and right and not having to be bigger for funds in the state budget than those mentioned. Of course, it is the fact that the state budget will be cut off for certain benefits. But the actual state required by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and it says that the funds must be provided for, we have respected it fully and accurately and calculated how much our bill requires of the state budget. And the Rules of Procedure don't ask us to calculate each other's sides. And we have respected it and I believe that there are no objections, nor is it true that our calculations are not good. We will wait for the government's calculation, and then we will discuss it, of course taking care that the data on which the number of users is exactly how many users of this law, whether it is 32600 or 34 and something still has the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we would like to hear the exact number of users, and hopefully we will get the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22518	Thank you. Your Honor, just a little bit. Well, take it easy, you'll get it. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22519	Mr. President. I'm continuing on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22520	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22521	I'll just say one word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22522	Wait a minute. Let me run the session. Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your permission. Here you go. You got another minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22523	Mr. Djakic of the 17 signatures you showed, tell me who is not a member of the HDZ?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22524	Correction of an incorrect quote, please focus on correcting the incorrect quote. The esteemed representative Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22525	Mr. Jukic said World War II fighters are not at risk of rights. Not that they're at risk, but they've been suspended, that's the point. You can't jeopardize what they don't even have anymore. They've lost everything, especially the disabled. What rights did they get from the year 91 to today? Nothing. They're poor. Well, I guess we're not gonna start cutting off their pensions today. And once again I'm going to say, disabled people need to be allowed everything, no matter who it is, where in what war that disability acquired, if he was fighting for the interests of this country. And World War II fighters, the Partisans certainly fought for the interests of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22526	I beg you to correct the incorrect quote and do not use the institution to correct the incorrect argument. Correction of an incorrect quote, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22527	Dear Mr. Vice President, I will correct Mr. Yukic's incorrect allegations that I said only superficially about the government's regulation of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Namely, I said that the terrible problems of the defenders in Bosnia and Herzegovina are disabled, and that this regulation that I'm talking about has been abolished by 710 officers and officers, that is correct. And to Mr Kovacevic, he would correct the incorrect allegations, when he claims they are not HDZ's. Well, it's not one, not even Djuro Boy is HDZ anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22528	Thank you. This was the correct correction of the incorrect assumption. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22529	Mr. Vice-President, I would like to correct Mr. Jukic's incorrect allegations that he has completely incorrectly interpreted the Federation's agreement, i.e., a pardon agreement, but the Federation's law on defenders. It's not true that HVO loses rights at the end of next year. It is true that an agreement has been reached between the Croatian side and the Muslim side to postpone the application of the law to the Croats, namely the Croatian Defence Council, in order to reach an agreement with the Republic of Croatia in the meantime. And here on several occasions we had a guarantee from the Government of the Republic of Croatia that an agreement would be reached and I absolutely believe it. Therefore, I thank you, too, and Mr. Cain, for his concern indeed, for taking care of the HVO defenders, especially the disabled. But it was incorrect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22530	Thank you. We're done with the corrections of an incorrect allegation. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Željko Kurtov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22531	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I am truly sorry that today is not a united debate between the government's proposal and the HSP, so we can conduct a constructive debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22532	I'm sorry. I ask esteemed representatives for a little attention, allow the representative of the HNS Club PGS to deliver his opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22533	That we can conduct a constructive debate on the well-being of the defenders and the defense population. If it's the same as all of us, and I think it is, because there are different parties in this assembly and I don't think we can have different goals, we can have just the same. So, from this proposal, I'm going to be very brief, HSP has good things, and there are things I can't accept. However, I think it would be better if we had done so in common reading of the law, the proposal for the law of the HSP and the Government, and I think we could come to better conclusions. I'll just look back on a few things in this bill, that's 90, 96. Expansion of the borders of the Homeland War is not possible first in the Constitution, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia clearly states. The Croatian people expressed their determination and willingness to establish and preserve the Republic of Croatia as an independent, independent, sovereign and democratic state by winning the Homeland War in 91-95. Therefore, according to the Constitution, it cannot go into expansion, it is one thing that I disagree with the HSP. And I still don't agree with the group of defenders and people with disabilities of the Homeland War, pyrotechnicians, pension missions, etc. The pyrotechnicians have great insurance, insurance policy, the possibility that in the event of their disability they could simply come another way to their compensation. There are good things more in this proposal. This has been caused by PTSD volunteers, suicides, pyrotechnics, employment championships, children's championships after finishing schooling after one year of having the same right of income. And I'd say as far as HSP's law is concerned, which says that 2 billion kunas would be enough for realisation, I don't think there would be any of these that the government is proposing that's how much from informal conversations we hear about 3 billion and 600 I think it would be a little bit if we really had a wide, wide, broad defence rights that I would agree with if there were financial opportunities. However, this bill of law has a lot of good things and I think that by a united debate of the government and this HSP for the benefit of the defender we will do the greatest work. I prefer the variant, a little slower, but let's make a law that we won't change every fourth year. We in HNS and PGS think we should wait for the government's draft law and then all together to pass the Law on defenders who will be realistic, possible and financially tolerated for the Croatian state and Croatian citizens. Only in this way will the rights of Croatian defenders be permanently resolved to the satisfaction of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22534	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Ledinski, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22535	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, today we are talking about a bill on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. We at HSS will support this proposal that came from the HSP Club. For what? First of all, this law, which is now proposed, is a revised law that has been implemented for a certain period of time, which also allows for what is explained here to determine a certain period of status, disabled by the basis of disease, extension of the ageing period, status, member of the family of the deceased defender who committed suicide, and we are witnessing that we have more and more. The same certain newspapers that are listed and can be carried out in the work. Also, since the construction process is also the same as that of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which I had the opportunity to see for myself the other day that certain... In the second reading of these laws, we propose to bring together their debate on them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's been a long time and we shouldn't bid with both the number of defenders and the number of people with disabilities or what's often been the case and bring data of such or such and the number of defenders should finally also know the number of people with disabilities who is and not that we're talking there's no 300, 600, how many thousands. In particular, I think that is what sensitive defenders have been to that numbering bid, with the rights and frequent changes that have been in that section for the past years. So on behalf of the HSS Club, we suggest that we miss this law in the second reading and so far we get a proposal, I have it in the working version by the associations and the government that it is also done and that we can then bring it all together here because I think it is an interest of all of us and that it is one of the laws that we should neither politicise nor specifically speculate about but really put the interests of all defenders under common interest and thus enable their rights. Let's not forget the defenders have created our country and should then also have existing laws and certain rights that follow from it and not that we are changing them here in the House at any moment. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22536	Thank you very much. And the DC Club and HSLS, the esteemed representative Frano Piploic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22537	Mr. President, respected colleagues and colleagues, the DC Club and HSLS supports any solution that respects the rights of Croatian defenders, their dignity but also that they are finally brought out of war, to introduce them into... status. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian defenders, in general, belong to the Croatian historical, political heritage, military heritage and heritage as well as to any heritage. Defense, I'm speaking to distinguished colleagues, in that sense, if you don't understand, I'm not guilty. There are defenders on the scene and this population is in grave danger. We have many associations and we also have various proposals on rights that we cannot bear as a society. And I will now say one perhaps blasphemous sentence, but it seems to me that Croatian defenders have suffered more damage than various changes, additions, laws, suggestions than they have experienced from the enemy. Therefore, this population should finally be brought out of that state of war. And our proposal is that we should be patient and that this law should be adopted by consensus, as Croatian defenders have unanimously defended the Croatian state so that we here in the Croatian Parliament should not politicise this issue but simply finally resolve the issue. So far, it has been a practice for defenders to politicise that they belong to this or that political group to influence their political position. I think it was harmful. Because the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences is now on the agenda and the one who prepares the Government and the previous laws that have always highlighted the privileges and privileges of Croatian defenders. So what's the privilege and privilege if you've suffered finely nervously, if you've lost a part of your body, if you've died, if you've left your family without a foster parent. Uto is the right that, through defense, through its own involvement in the Homeland War, was acquired by its own sacrifice. Losing your own health. The Croatian defender also deserves the deep respect and dignity of the defenders, not to be, to be the subject of various political actions and activities. The solution to the life needs and problems of Croatian defenders for Croatian society should be to finally respect their victim and not to solve a social category. Because these people, if they hadn't defended the Homeland, if they hadn't been in the front lines, hadn't sacrificed themselves, could have been, could have been doing some other job, on that basis, to gain adequate social economic security. The DC and HSLS Club advocates that only those whose defence status is not disputed are listed in the continued defence register in the first step. And the second step in the register should include those whose status has been disputed and subsequent checks have removed doubts. This approach requires 9 years after the war to determine the undeniable and final number of defenders. And this number of defenders who have not yet been officially established is also one of the attempts to disrupt and manipulate themselves with the defenders themselves. While we still have living witnesses, and while we still have fresh memories, we need to establish that status so that one day it would not happen that we must again, as two witnesses have been said here, prove that we were defenders, defenders of Croatia. I don't think we need that kind of luxury. It is also dangerous to turn the public against Croatian defenders by constantly calling on them to have privileges, how they have privileges, so when you mention cars they seem often counterproductive. Because the greatest aid to Croatian defenders would have been that they could have been helped on the battlefield, on the first line. For example, those who insist on some things cannot thus wash away some of their responsibilities and sort of classify themselves in the defense population post-festum. Here's so much from me and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22538	Thank you. State Secretary at the Ministry Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22539	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the proposal for a law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the following reasons: The Government of the Republic of Croatia holds a valuable and useful every effort towards better and better formal regulation of status and care for Croatian defenders, members of their families and all categories of victims of the Homeland War. In this context, it also looks at the initiative of the HSP Representatives Club, noting that it is conscious of the importance of this problem. The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity has established a special working group that has worked intensively for the past few months to develop a new Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families in order to ensure as high-quality and complete a draft of the new law as possible. This working group was invited and actively participated by leading domestic experts, as well as representatives of defence associations arising from the Homeland War, other than representatives of the resolution ministry and representatives of other ministries and bodies of the state administration. The draft new law drawn up by the Working Group of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity has been completed and it has been under public debate in which everyone interested in the problem, which it covers, took part. In line with the above mentioned Government of the Republic of Croatia, the opinion is that the draft law drawn up by the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity is broadly broader than the law in question, with the open possibility of further processing and supplementing during the public debate, and is proposed to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the proposal for a law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families proposed by the Club of Representatives of the HSP. I can take immediate advantage of this opportunity and say a few words about the debate that was here and did not state the inaccuracies expressed when it comes to working on the existing law or the draft law by the Government. The government adheres to all the deadlines that were announced here after this pay phone in January of this year during the first amendments to the existing law. The new Croatian Defence Act was said to be adopted in this high house by the end of this year and should enter into force in 1.1.2005. I assure you that it will be, that the law in the government, that certain suggestions and remarks of the associations have come. That they are thoroughly considered and very soon the law will be in the parliamentary procedure. I can also say that both the prime minister and the Croatian Prime Minister will hold a working meeting with representatives of the Homeland War associations. A few things Mr. Kovacevic said just don't fit the reality. I don't know how this information about 5,000 non-existent people on disability pensions. We do not know about such information, even though we did not know about it until the first and second months after the speaker, that we were checking out the pensioner who makes the records, the billing and the payment of pensions, and there is no data. When it comes to the Croatian Defence Council, their status will be resolved by an interstate agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and BiH. The fact is that in BiH, a Law on Fighters was adopted, which is due to take effect in 1.1.2006, precisely because of these reasons Mr Barisic also spoke of. But I'm surprised that the issue wasn't resolved earlier, and I'm asking here on the basis of what criteria, at the time Mr Kovacevic was there acting on a significant duty in the ministry, not all of them were resolved and some of them not. It was either to solve everything or no one. We believe that this law is not enforceable, which is also the calculation shown as costing price to say this law, 2 billion and 800 million kuna is absolutely insufficient for the particular requirements of this law. I can only tell you that this year, 2 billion 650 million kuna will be paid for pensions. That permanent rights are somewhere around 660 million kuna. Just so that if we add these two items together, we're going to come up with a much larger amount than what's in this proposal, 2 billion and 800, and in particular, considering that some new rights are also being introduced that there's no calculation at all, like, I don't know, healthcare participations or anything like that. That's hundreds and hundreds of millions of kunas. I can also say from this place that there has been no incident at the Ministry today like there has been no incidents in the ministry for a long time, that the Ministry's door has been open to Croatian defenders. That Croatian defenders come to the Ministry daily for 100 and more Croatian defenders, which only contributes to the fact that they have confidence in the team that is in the Ministry and that we are making every effort to solve the problems of Croatian defenders, and so the defender whom Mr Kovacevic thought was in the Ministry today. He's accepted, of course. He's been interviewed, and all things are explained. The second thing is that the TV team came immediately, probably having information that there was, I don't know, preparing something spectacular, but there was really nothing else from the spectacle. I also have to correct Mr. Yukic. There is no coordination of associations in the Ministry. The coordination of associations exists at a republican level and has been joined by associations of republican, republican level to coordinate their activities. And I can also say that this is the Ministry and the personal Ms. Minister and Vice-President across Croatia organised a whole series of stands and talks with the defenders and the defence population precisely to get suggestions from the field from those who are of course the most interested in the law itself and that a large number of these suggestions of the defenders, and especially the association included in the draft law by the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, perhaps not in the scope in which it was proposed, but the vast majority of proposals are in the draft law, but I would not now talk about the draft law. There will be opportunities, of course, for the Croatian Parliament to discuss I think we should now stick to what the HSP proposal is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22540	On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22541	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. I think it would be your turn to come to the meetings at the Croatian Parliament, at least to have a tie, and then to give us lectures. You can see that even active athletes who come have ties, that's one way. And secondly, about something you don't know, don't talk. 5,100 pensioners have been found to receive a pension, military, as Croatian military disabled, General Ante Gotovina and I in 98, on this basis you have in the ministry, former Croatian Defence Minister Dr. Juraj Njavro did not want to give from the funds of the Croatian Defence Ministry to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, and if you do not know anything, there are people who know, in this part will help you. And don't impute me that I've been working on resolving the pensions of the Croatian Defence Council. This was done by the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, so it would be at least a turn for you to speak accuracy in this Croatian Assembly. So that's the whole truth. And you're still telling us today about something that's not there. For me, for everyone in this Croatian Parliament, the government's proposal will be when it comes to the signing of the Prime Minister, Ivo Sanader, when it is a fine class and number, says the bill on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their family. Then that's the government's proposal. I've got a lot of suitcases of your various proposals, first, second, third, fourth, fifth, but we don't officially have government proposals yet. I think we have to agree on that, and don't talk about anything that's not there. It's official here when he comes with the signature of dr. Eve Sanader, right? That's a suggestion, this is a draft. What? Hebrang can also sign the Adriatic, that's right. That's what I agree with you, but it's probably gonna be dr. Sanader used to sign. Therefore, the situation is more than clear, there is little time, and as for who was saying what, you know how it started with the establishment of the Committee for the Making of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. The Deputy Prime Minister claimed in January that he would be these days, so she claimed in February, so she claimed in March, sometime at 5. The Committee was yet to be established on 6 months. On August 27th, you tell us that your bill is more content, that it is done by experts. What experts did it, tell me? Which experts? You know, let's just say coordination associations a lot don't agree with that. They don't agree with that. So be careful what you say, and I'll trust you, the HSP Club when the Government Bill comes in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22542	First of all, Mr. Kovacevic, whether the secretary of state will be wearing a tie or be in the middle of something, that's his business. That's why you have no reason to warn him about it. .... You don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because you won't be an arbiter about how the minister or secretary of state will dress. I don't do that. ... Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22543	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I will correct Mr. Pera Kovacevic's incorrect allegations that the Republic Coordination of Associations and some associations are not behind this law. The co-ordination of associations is behind this law, but it had its own objections which it had declared and clearly written. So, it combines discussions, the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and members of their families we support, along with these remarks. That's true, Mr. Pero Kovacevic, if you want to know. The law...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22544	The violation of the Rules of Procedure, the respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22545	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I refer to article 214. The Rules of Procedure, although you have already told a fellow gentleman what he has warned the present legislator here in the case of Mr. Ivic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, whether he has a tie or has no tie. The clothes do not make a gentleman, and today it is modern to wear suits with such shirts as Mr. Ivić wore today, and today he is a neatly dressed fellow representative of HSP Mr. Jukic, has no tie, but he is also elegantly dressed. Here. No tie.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22546	Thank you very much. This was really necessary in these moments. State Secretary Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22547	Thank you. I will not comment here on Mr Kovacevic's lunches about the style of my dress. That's more about him than it is about me. But I must say that this 5,000 mentioned by Mr. Pero Kovacevic, it is very easy to check and we will check again if necessary. And another thing, Mr. Kovacevic. I haven't talked here about what's not in this House. The debate started with comparisons between the HSP bill and the government's proposal that hasn't yet seen the light of day.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22548	The esteemed commander, Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22549	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like to briefly promote HSP's proposal for a law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. In my opinion, the Defence Act must be complete, high-quality, unequivocal with clear indicators of how much it will take to implement all the rights envisaged. The Defence Act must be consistent with all defence associations, realistically enforceable and acceptable defence populations. The HSP proposal has good solutions to the proposal, but this is not how I propose it. Due to the sensitivity of the defence population, it must not succumb to politicising in the preparation of the law, but must be well designed to avoid future changes in the whole law or supplementation and changes after each parliamentary election. That's why I think we should wait for the government's proposal to be co-ordinated with defense associations and hope that it will be accepted unanimously. The law on defenders must be neither Pancicev nor Pera Kovacevic's law. He must be the law of all of us, which we will all adhere to and which we will all spend together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22550	Thank you very much. Does the Proposer still want a final review? Okay. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. And don't, please, let go of that statement about ties, clothes and the like.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22551	When it comes to ties, you yourself know that Mr. Kickerec was Secretary of the Parliament when he prescribed that part and I don't know that he was put out of force. Mr. Kickerec was Secretary of Parliament, and that was in effect then, but I'm good with ties.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22552	Mr. Kickerec tried something else to prescribe, short skirts, etc. But let's leave our skirts and tie and all that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22553	So on behalf of the HSP Club, I thank the debate, especially clubs such as the HNS, HSS and others who supported it, which are going to achieve a consensus and I believe that the SDP Club, so was the session of the Committee on Legislatives, also supported the whole part, that the situation is such, alarming, that it is urgent to resolve both in the first and second readings in order for the law to enter into force and apply from 1.1.2005. It was not our intention to or will never be our intention to politicise on the issue of Croatian defenders, we were prepared for the part that this law serves as a basis for the Government to prepare a final proposal, to speed up that part as well. We see that part of the coordination with the associations doesn't work exactly like that. It's just that there's been a lot of time that we need to be aware of. If those words had been kept that it would be before summer, this is where we were shown in the report that the law was finished, that it would go into debate. Unfortunately, not all of this has happened as it happens, and I think it would be wise to support this law in our first reading and to task the government to make a final draft of the law while at the same time carrying out this whole public debate. Listen, October 15th is close, we don't know, and today the secretary of state didn't say when the government would finally come out with a bill of law. So I was saying, one thing is, I was comparing the bill, Mr. Secretary of State, I wasn't talking about the bill. So these are the important things and my intention was to improve in this part the bad solutions that are in those plans, and we are saying this from experience is that we are talking in office days with people, we are talking to a large number of defenders. Here, and during this session we received a large number and messages and everything else where it was also said that Mr. Mercep and the others did not sign that part and do not agree to such solutions in the law. So let's not fettize things, get real on the ground, determine what we're all going to support and be realistic. And, Mr. Secretary of State, I received 99 thousand parties from the Ministry of the Croatian Defence, and here I can, I have 20 or 30 letters from people who say they wrote in the first month, that they wrote in the second month, that they didn't get an answer. That they wrote in the first month, the second month, that they didn't bring any answers, but I say we can deal professionally wherever you want, and we'll see who knows more about this matter than you or I. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22554	Thank you. I'm closing the debate under this bill. The next item is the proposal for a law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. First reading, P.Z. No. 126. The debate was concluded in accordance with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families proposed by the HSP MPs is not accepted, for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please engage. The vote. Score. I find the proposed conclusion accepted by 72 votes to four abstentions and 32 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22557	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, here we are before us the Club of Representatives of the CNS has referred to the parliamentary procedure of the draft law on 31.5.2004, i.e. significantly earlier than the Government's proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Spatial Regulation, which entered the parliamentary procedure following an emergency procedure at the end of June of this year. The need to draw up the Proposal for a Law on the Planning, Management, Management and Control Agency of the coastal area and maritime goods was imposed on the fact that this topic is nowhere in general covered but that certain segments relating mainly to protection covered by various laws are covered by the Laws of the Sea and Seaports, the Law on Spatial Planning, the Maritime Code and other acts. In the nature of their activities, the Ministry has a regulatory and mainly policy-making and legislation of a particular area, while within the jurisdiction of the agencies it is owned by the state, the conduct of operational operations and the single financial control. The role of such a designed agency would be to protect the specific coastal area and maritime goods, which we have already discussed several times in the Assembly, but’ always in some participatory segment, such as last week in the context of the HSP proposal to limit the traffic of real estate on islands. Secondly, stimulating investment with due respect for all safeguard measures. This is exactly what the designed agency has been proposing for years, but it can't sum up, Stop and Those Shops. For all those potential domestic and foreign investors who want to invest and build in this sensitive and important space. The Agency would maintain a register of all the concessions awarded and organise sites with complete spatial and technical documentation and all the necessary studies and documents to facilitate the development of potential investors and from one place to enable the country to systematically develop this whole, of national interest, an important area according to the pre-determined criteria. Croatia does not have a strategic document that would define a coastal area management strategy, unlike the European Union, which, considering its maritime resources, has joined the development factors of the Union's spatial strategy, the Union's maritime strategy. Making such a strategic document in the final phase, and what is important to us highlights sustainable development and the incentive to preserve traditional life forms in the function of economic growth. As part of its activities in cooperation with the Office for Spatial Planning, the Agency would firstly prepare and propose to the Croatian Assembly the strategic documents necessary for the rational use of marine and coastal resources. Furthermore, its role would be to encourage and speed up the process of passing spatial order documents with a small digression here, a coastal area development strategy that should have been developed in the last meeting has not been made until today. The agency would take over the activities of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development in defining the maritime goods borders and its status definition through the cadastre, which would allow the giant ministry to carry out professional operations anyway. This is particularly important because it is only by establishing the limits of the maritime good that the holder of the right to grant concessions on the maritime good is defined. In addition to the awarded concessions database, the Agency would also monitor the payment of concessions on maritime good, thus increasing the efficiency of the realisation of the collection and charging of the state budget. It is important to stress that this is not about the creation of parallel systems, but it is not even about the provisions of existing laws, notably the Law on Spatial Planning and the Law on Ports and the Maritime Good offering solutions for their more effective application. But what is different are competences in performing certain tasks. The government finds in its opinion that the proposed solutions are contrary to existing laws. But these proposals aim to improve the system that we hold ineffective and so on. The opposites should accelerator changes that would make the system more efficient. It's true that the law is partly in favour of centralization. It is, however, a necessary overall thinking and planning of part of state territory that everyone agrees is the most valuable part of Croatia. Opinions, projections and plans of local communities are secured through this law, especially when it comes to spatial planning, but when units of local self-government do not use the spatial planning mechanism that we have constantly witnessed in recent years, the agency assumes that role. We also consider it necessary to coordinate the spatial arrangement of the coastal area throughout the Adriatic, with the promotion and respect of specialities. Finally, the proposal for a law anti-ciptises solutions to the existing Law on Maritime Goods and Marines in a work relating to the allocation of funds stemming from concessions on maritime goods, which is currently predicting the allocation of funds between local and national levels. But what is inconsistencies in the government's position is that in the Law on Spatial Planning, the Ministry of Spatial Planning reserves the right and obligation to give consent to all spatial plans, thereby keeping the state completely in control of space while in the proposals of other parliamentary clubs heading towards the protection of the coastal area and maritime goods, the same Government calls for decentralisation of management functions. Note, this law would finally fully regulate planning, governance, management, but also control of what we all agree to is the greatest national good, and this is the area of coastal area and maritime goods. The current regulatory status area is equal to the other space in the Republic of Croatia and is partially treated in several different laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22558	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? The Legislative Committee? The Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee? The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection? Dear Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22559	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection at the 12th session held on 23 September discussed the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Planning, Management, Management and Control of the Coastal Area and Maritime Goods submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Club of HNS and PGS. The proposed legislation was examined by the Committee on the basis of Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. The Committee reached the following conclusion: Proposal for a Law on the Planning, Management, Management and Control of the coastal area and maritime goods is rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22560	Thank you very much. Does a representative of the government want a word? Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22561	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has given its opinion on this Proposal for a Law on the Planning, Management, Management and Control of the Coastal Area and Maritime Goods proposed by the Croatian PGS Club to the Croatian Assembly, so that we have detailed the articles and defined why the Government does not accept and cannot accept one such proposal of this law, and I will not want to interpret all this now given that it does, I will state a few reasons for which I believe that and why the Government cannot accept one such bill. First of all, the fact is that this bill is contrary to the provisions of a whole series of laws, such as the Law on Maritime Goods, Seaports, the Maritime Code, the Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on Budgets and even the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. The other thing, we have one different approach to treating this problem, a completely different approach from the one foreseen by this bill. All the legislative activities so far have been directed, and in line with the European Community guidelines on one decentralisation and in particular decentralisation of management of maritime good, but also decentralisation of the protection of maritime goods, which I would say successfully and done so far. This is one proposal where practically things are centralized and we think it is unnecessary to set up another agency regardless of its headquarters somewhere on the sea or on an island, etc. etc. The thing is set up so that things are centralized that we hold that it's not good anyway, and I believe that in any case, it would also cause reactions from local self-governments and local self-government leaders and city councils and county councils, which would certainly rightly oppose any agency, for example. determines who will be a concessionary on a beach in Dubrovnik. I don't think that makes sense. Thirdly, and what I would say is that this bill is the most based, this is the area of maritime goods and coastal areas, and the proposer herself said that this law was written before the amendment of the Law on Spatial Planning was clearly in line with and related to the regulations adopted by the Government, relating to that amendment to the Law on Spatial Planning. In the case of this protection of maritime goods, this Agency proposes, with this proposal for a law, that the Agency has competences in inspection, to give consent to the spatial-planned documentation in this area, to the maritime good management strategy. I just remind myself that this House has brought amendments to the Law on Spatial Planning which has established a protected coastal area that extends to the sea 300 metres from the coast, and in a hill or land thousand meters from the coast, which is why we are all in agreement and complex, one very sensitive to say a part of our country's area, which has so far been heavily focused on building aggression and illegal construction, placed under control and under control by the government after that law, and, as the law has predicted, adopted a regulation that has set out a series of measures to stop and impose order, that is to stop aggression on that coastal area and so on the maritime well-being. It is predicted that the agency, not now in each article, will only say something that I consider important, determines the limits of the maritime goods. I think that we have come and succeeded and have come to the conclusion that today we have a system of establishing maritime goods in which the maximum involvement of local self-government is not only the county bodies, but also the city authorities, the state administration's office and then the state geodetic administration of the district offices, county attorneys, port captains and local self-government, and the final solution is brought by the Commission of the Sea, tourism, transport and development, and we want to take it now and put it into the hands of an agency to say it, I said it at the beginning, to cause opposition, with the right to oppose members of the local self-government units, so in cities and municipalities. And the last argument I would now make in this introduction is that I don't interpret everything. The establishment of one of these agencies would cost a lot of money, and that would be the cost. The proposal for a law provides for a 10% of all concessions and 10% of concession appropriations for the functioning of the Agency. We have calculated that this would be about 10 million kuna revenue from the state budget and we find it unacceptable that practically 20% of the funding from concessions on maritime good spending on administration instead of focusing on some other activities on maritime good, on safety of navigation, on unknown investments, interventions etc. etc. We therefore hold that, at this time, given all the measures the Government has taken and the amendments to the laws that the Government has taken so far both in the regulation and in a whole series of other legislations which some of them are in the procedure, the Government does not consider that it can accept one of these proposed laws on the Agency for Planning, Management, Management and Control of the Coastal Area and Maritime Goods, whose proposal is the Club of Representatives of the HNS and PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22562	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22563	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community has thoroughly considered this Law and allow me to present on behalf of the Club our reflections and our views. The proposal for a bill on the Agency for Planning and Management, Management and Control of the coastal area and maritime goods in the assessment of the situation and basic issues to be regulated by the Law states that the Adriatic Sea and the seashore is the most valuable natural, economic resource of our country. So it's the only fact and reflection in which we agree with Mr. and Mrs. Proposers on this bill. In all other things, we don't have a common position. Moreover, the more the reasoning states that our national good is not systematically and planically managed. The proposal also points out that the Republic of Croatia does not have a strategic document defining a coastal management strategy. The legislation governing the ecological protection of the sea and the coastal area requires investors to allocate huge resources into papers, I literally state, in papers, or in environmental studies. Instead of investing in the construction of pollution prevention devices. The spatial plans of the coastal area are missing or unspecified, management of maritime goods is not regulated legally, and the jurisdiction of certain inspections overlaps with each other. The Croatian Democratic Community's club does not accept such an assessment of the state of governance, management and supervision of the coastal area and maritime goods because this assessment is not based on true facts. The proposer further proposes the establishment of the Agency in order for the country to perform its basic functions on coastal management from one place. The Agency would propose strategic documents necessary for the rational use of marine and coastal resources, as proposed by the applicant. The Agency would, further, take over the activities of the Ministry of Sea and Tourism, Transport and Development in defining the maritime goods borders and its status, grant concessions and conduct inspection controls including the supervision of the Construction Act. The Agency would also monitor the payment of concession fees on the maritime good. All current legislative activities of this government have been focused on decentralisation of maritime good governance and decentralisation of maritime good protection, bringing significant responsibilities to municipalities, cities and counties. But in the jurisdiction of the State, only inspection was left. The approach proposed by the Proposal for a Law establishing the Agency is completely contrary to our Croatian practices and powers of local administration and self-government and a series of our laws, and in particular the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. The Maritime Code, the Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on Port Captains, the Law on Budgets, the Law on the System of State Administration, the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. I must also point out that this proposal is contrary to both the European definitions and the instructions we receive on the harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation. In line with the Law on Spatial Planning, which adopted this High House during this year and the Regulation on the Protection of the Coastal Area of the Croatian Adriatic, many issues related to the protection and arrangement of the Croatian Adriatic coastal area have been settled. This will allow for more efficiency than the establishment of this Agency which could not operate without amending those laws and a series of sublaws relating to that area. The Law on maritime goods and seaports has been governed by the procedure of establishing the borders and maritime goods carried out by the county headship, and the final decision is made by the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. This form of the provision of maritime goods borders ensures the participation of local self-government and adequate protection of maritime goods. There is no need for these issues to be settled otherwise. The management of maritime goods in emergency situations according to existing legal decisions are the counties which have the means for that purpose. With the professional support of port captains, i.e. in the future of the Coast Guard, there is no need or reason to centralise the extraordinary management of maritime good, which would be the case in the establishment of this Agency. Inspection of navigation safety, inspection of maritime goods carried out by port captains inspectors. It is very well systemically and qualityd and there is no need for such an Agency to be established. The proposed way of financing the Agency's work is assessed as inadmissible and irrational, as about 20% of its concessions in the maritime good would be spent on the Agency's administration instead of focusing on the protection of maritime goods, safety of navigation and intervention in exceptional pollution on maritime goods. Finally, on the basis of the reasons presented, the Croatian Democratic Community Club does not accept the above proposed Law on the Planning and Management Agency, the management and control of the coastal area in the maritime good and will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22564	Thank you very much. For the HNS Club, PGS respected deputy vice president Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22565	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, it's good to see you in Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. The proposal that lies ahead of all of us is, in fact, starting with the assumption and maybe it's really true that we're different here. It comes from the assumption that the coastal area and maritime goods in Croatia are seen as a national resource. So, as a national treasure. There is, of course, another option, to view it as a question, which I believe you were joking about, Mr. Minister, which you mentioned here, and that is the question of concessions on the beach, for example, in Dubrovnik. But just so it doesn't look at what we think it is at the PGS Club that it is a national resource just so it doesn't look like a question of concessions on the beach in Dubrovnik or anywhere else. We believe it is necessary to come up with a unique way of managing one of our most important national resources. As it cannot be decentralised, for example, to build a railway network or as it cannot be decentralised to build a highway. Thus, there is no decentralisation or management of anything deemed to be a national resource. This is simply the national good of Croatia and, of course, it will benefit all local levels, so all municipalities, cities and counties from good and proper and smart management of such a national resource. and will also have damage to all municipalities, cities and counties where this national good or national resource is located and, of course, Croatia as a whole. We hope at the door of the European Union. This fact also means, among other things, that within a few years in Croatia, all citizens of the European Union will be able to become private owners of both land and real estate. This is understood by normal development and the normal way of integration into the European Union. But that's why we have to have a systematic, unique policy towards something that's our central resource. We must have a unique policy towards something which is one of the main comparative advantages in Croatia. and we will, of course, allow and these are the rules that apply to all citizens of the European Union to become owners and can buy both real estate and land in Croatia. But we also need to be on our side like the Government and the Parliament in this country, whoever it is, whose task is to protect national interests will also have a policy which, before we know it, will determine what areas of national parks, which are areas of nature parks, which areas are defined for exclusive or superior tourism, which areas are designated for mass tourism. So Croatia, for example, has only one third of national parks in its territory at this time in partnership with the European Union's milk. Therefore, it is in our interest that, before we accept what is in the European Union integration process, it is simply one of the components of this, to design our national management policy for this resource, which is a coastal belt and maritime goods in Croatia. At this time, it is centralised to gain agreement on spatial plans, which is now centralised and approvals are obtained at the state level, so at national government level, or ministry. Which means in translation, if I may use your metaphor, Mr. Minister, which in translation means that exactly what you have mentioned with this distance is that the concessions on the beaches and where there will be the beaches to which concessions are being shared or concessions will be called, that are now approved by the central state. But, on the other hand, systematic resource management such as coastal belts and maritime well-being should not be conducted at national level. I think we've come into an absurd situation to centralize the decision-making process, i.e. issuing permits and accepting spatial plans, in particular, and decentralised the general. This is where we issue our mission and the fundamental purpose of state institutions such as this Parliament, to protect what we consider to be national wealth and national resources. We at the HNS and PGS Club will advocate that maritime good and coastal belts are treated as national wealth, not just as questions of local self-government. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22566	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now just for a moment, as we received the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system concerning yesterday's debate and evaluation, whether Vice-President Luka Bebic injured or not, yesterday, voted on this opinion. Please, who's up for that opinion you got? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 69 votes for and 11 against the opinion adopted under the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. We're moving on to a debate on this subject. I ask the Honorable Vice President Vesna Pusic to take over the presidency. By the time she gets here, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic, go ahead. You're giving up. Thank you very much. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22567	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my presentation, I must point out immediately that I will vote against the proposal of the Law on the Agency for Planning of Management, Management and Control of the Coastal Area and the maritime goods proposed by the HNS, PGS Club. Why? Mostly because, in my opinion, the proposer in the assessment of the situation as a basis for a different and better solution to this problem does not state the real and credible reasons. In my presentation, I will not give you all the reasons why I am against this proposal. I'm already gonna focus on what's important to me. For example, the proposer cites the lack of systematic and planning approach to coastal development in both spatial and economic terms. However, with existing legal solutions, and in particular amendments to the Law on Spatial Planning, and the proposal for a regulation on the regulation and protection of the coastal area of the Croatian Adriatic, which will be brought to the Government, it is achieved and will certainly achieve greater efficiency in the state of the coastal area than would be achieved by the establishment of a planning, management, management and control agency of the coastal area and maritime goods. Go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22568	I ask your colleagues to allow Mrs. Brnadić to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22569	Furthermore, in the assessment of the situation, it is said that ecological protection of the sea and the coastal area of all forms of pollution is a necessary prerequisite for long-term development, which absolutely agrees with the applicant. But I do not agree that now, according to the investor's proposal, an investor is being forced to produce expensive environmental studies. These colleagues and colleagues are not imposing on investors but are required by law to take a step towards flat-plating ecological protection of the sea and the coastal area. It is not true that there are no real protection measures behind environmental studies, environmental protection. On the contrary. Each study based on legal provisions must contain and contain ecological protection measures and, more importantly, the study shall determine the monitoring, monitoring of the situation in the environment after construction, or at the time of use of the facility as the most important element of protection, environmental protection. And the agency couldn't plan to build any of the facilities of potential polluters without making an environmental impact study. However, as regards inspections in the coastal area, it is true that there may be a conflict of jurisdiction but a positive conflict of jurisdiction since the Law on maritime good and seaports has been established inspection of the safety of navigation and inspection of maritime goods which may sometimes overlap with the authority of the construction inspection. If, in a certain administrative matter, more inspections do not necessarily mean that there is a disturbance on the ground than the state with its mechanisms should ensure regular, complete, effective inspection supervision and, of course, the orderly situation on the ground. Of course, the state needs to exercise strict control at all stages of planning space, award of concessions and concessions, control of concessionaries, supervision of building facilities etc., etc. So, in one word, strict and effective state control that already exists and there is no need for supervision to rape the agency. In particular, the question is whether more inspectors should be hired which is certainly necessary and which should provide them with adequate working conditions. The proposal that the agency performs basic coastal management functions in one place is considered totally unacceptable because the practice shows that it is a decentralised form of management in the interests of the counties, cities and municipalities that make significant income from which they finance their development projects. In Article 5(1), paragraph 7 is proposed that the Agency implements exceptional management of maritime goods. According to the existing legal solution, management of maritime goods in emergency situations is in the jurisdiction of the county. With the expertise of port captains and in the future of the coast guard. So I can't believe that the central model will better look at the needs of extraordinary management than the current decentralised model, so action models immediately and at the scene, at the scene. I'm going to look briefly at the financial effects, which is better to say the shortcomings that the agency would suffer. I have already pointed out that the counties, cities and municipalities make significant revenues from concessions and concessions and the establishment of the agency will significantly reduce these revenues. For the sake of illustration, I will state that in Zadar County, the annual income of all concessions is cca. 2 million and 300,000 kuna. Therefore, as Article 13 is already the case. The Law on Maritime Good and Seaports found that the concession fee was shared in favour of the revenues of the state budget, the budget of the county and the budget of the city and the municipality, so in three parts, by taking another 10% of that revenue and 10% of the revenues of the concession approval and by significantly damaging the revenues of the agency of the counties, cities and municipalities, which would certainly cause their revolt and dissuasion and made it impossible and slowed down many development processes. The establishment of the agency declares the protection of maritime goods, and then far more rational means are needed for the Agency's work to focus on the protection of maritime goods, the safety of navigation and intervention in extraordinary events on marine goods. For no less important argument against the establishment of the Agency, it could not act without amending a series of laws and legislative acts relating to this area and the argumentation of the applicant did not demonstrate the purpose of its establishment and, for the sake of all this, cannot vote for the draft law on the Agency for Planning, Management, Management and Control of the coastal area and maritime goods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22570	Thank you, ma'am. Now, on behalf of the promoter, a Mrs. Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain, please welcome fellow Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22571	I thank, Madam Vice-President, the Government, in its opinion on a legislative proposal which provides that the procedure for awarding concessions to maritime goods awarded by the Government and managed by the Agency states that the process of preparation and evaluation of offers is now being carried out by the commission made up of representatives of the resolution ministries, which carry out the work of extraordinary working time and without compensation. I believe that the preparation for a decision and conclusion of a concession contract is a value that usually exceeds millions. Too serious work with far-reaching consequences to be determined for the state by amateurs, volunteers, or representatives of ministries that are not, in fact, because they are doing extra time and without compensation. As for the extraordinary management of the maritime good time, it is taken over from the existing Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports, it is quite imprecise and marks a set of activities and their financing in the case of exceptional gourmets. The fact that at this point, no one in any of the budgets, whether we are talking about state-owned, or whether we are talking about county funds that would intervene in cases of oil draining into the sea or the collapse of the waterfront and we have witnessed a series of inter-resorial outwittings about competencies for the recovery of the resulting situation. Let's just remember the case of a collapsed Dubrovnik Riva and today... does not refer to 40 tonnes of lumbar and oil that could potentially flow into the sea from Lenca. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We therefore believe that the proposed solution would clearly and unequivocally define the competence to carry out operations that do not, in their nature, suffer a delay. The role of the agency is co-ordinated, she is obliged to hire professional services and ensure the settlement of their costs. Finally, the government's objection to the use of funds collected from concessions was completely missed, according to the Agency's administration. On the contrary, the Law provides for a commitment to the dedicated spending of funds in the legal predictable activities of the Agency such as spatial arrangements, the establishment of maritime goods borders, the conduct of the preparatory procedure for the award of concessions and the like. It is therefore not about any administrative costs, but about the financing of the activities that bring new funds and at the same time achieve adequate valorisation and effective protection of maritime goods and the entire coastal area. This is exactly the kind of model that will allow the funds collected on the maritime good to return to the maritime good compared to the picture we have today when the concession funds are mostly poured into non-transparent, joint bags, which is inadmissible and irrational. I note this law would finally fully regulate the planning, management, management and control of what we all agree is the greatest national good, and this is the area of coastal area and maritime goods. The current regulatory status of this space is even with the other premises in the Republic of Croatia, is partially treated in different laws, and I must say if it were so good, there would be no need for us to change anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22572	Thank you. The correction of the incorrect allegations was reported by Mrs. Brandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22573	Thank you very much. College colleague Chicin-Shain said that the counties do not have the means for emergency events at sea. I do not know about other counties but I do know about the Zadar County that in its budget there is secure funds for extraordinary events, that it has an established eco-station which, in which all professional people who deal with this problem and in the case of pollution at sea, when it is an unknown perpetrator, and these are the cases of an extraordinary event of the eco-station management of all actions and very fast actions in order to remove extraordinary events at sea are solved and it is dealt with exclusively by authorised companies that have the authority of the Ministry of Environmental Protection to carry out these tasks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22574	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Next up is Mr. Representative Jozo Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22575	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Here at this late hour... and a few words about this bill. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposer of this bill rightly stated in an assessment of the situation in his bill that the sea and coast is the most valuable part of the territory of every country, and for our country Croatia we can rightly say even more because our coast is extremely beautiful and divorced. That this potential should be managed responsibly and that the state must worry about the protection of the sea and coastal belt, we all agree on that, and that is already said in the debate. It is just a question of whether such a concept can be better achieved with such a proposal for the Agency's law than what we have a concept in Croatia that we can say from independence because the Croatian state immediately recognized the value and importance of the sea and the coastal area after the establishment of the Croatian State established the Ministry which was then in charge of taking care of the sea and sea. And we today, when we talk about these two different concepts, we have to also list which problems would arise here, we can also say overlapping certain functions, certain state bodies. We now have the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, traffic, development. We have a network of port captains who have a long tradition, and soon a coast guard should be established, here's a little recession I hope with a seat in Sibenik. And now, with this proposal for the law of the HNS and PGS Club, another body, another agency for planning, managing, managing and controlling the coastal area and maritime goods, is proposed, in my opinion, unnecessarily. We'll cut back a little bit. Which, in its section, this agency, we said, so we're going to skip that part, we should take over the functions of the Ministry and other bodies. We must point out that it is precisely on the trail of the Croatian state's commitment from the very beginning that was a Adriatic orientation, which is also proof that in 1994 we passed the Maritime Code which had been amended and amended, and last month we also discussed the new Maritime Code. In 2003, the previous government, the coalition government also passed the Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports, and in 1997, if I am not mistaken, the Law on Port Captions was passed. Therefore, all or in the process are significant laws governing activities related to the sea as well as the protection of the sea and the coast. In addition, we have the Law on Spatial Planning, and last month the Government also adopted this Regulation on the regulation and protection of the protected area of the sea. Which clearly shows that this government implements its economic programme and orientation, the Adriatic orientation and executes ultimately and its election promises, which is to stop wild construction, devastion and concreteisation of our coast. And after everything that's been said, there's a logical question of what is being achieved by this proposal of the Agency's law? Whether this bill can achieve better protection of the sea and sea belt or perhaps better and more efficient management of this exceptional good, as we have all mentioned, of Croatia. In my opinion, neither. I believe that this law, and the agency would not achieve a single goal that the proposing, the HNS Club, states in its reasoning. But one thing's for sure. In order to significantly limit the powers of local and regional self-government, this bill would make local administration less economic benefit, which would certainly cause dissatisfaction and inadmissibility from itself, from local administration units themselves. Then there is a very important question as to whether the agency is able to carry out the proposal and, in my view, it is very important or to be authorised to carry out inspection tasks when it is the task of the state administration. The Ministry. It should be pointed out that the proposed Agency proposal also requires additional financial resources to be provided in the budget. That's what the minister was talking about. That's what fellow MPs used to say, so I don't think there's any further need to explain it. It should also be pointed out that if this proposal on the Agency was accepted as proposed by the Proposer, it would also be necessary to amend a whole series of laws and what has been very exhaustively given in the reasons set out in the opinion itself from the Government, and I think that Mr. Minister has been quite exhausted on this subject. At the end of the respected colleague and fellow MPs in my opinion, there is no reasonable reason to accept this proposal for a law on the Agency for Planning, Management, Management and Control of the coastal area and maritime goods as proposed by this legal proposal of the HNS and PGS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22576	I thank you, Mr. Representative. Next up is Mr. Zivko Nenadić. Here you go, colleague Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22577	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, since it is written what this Agency should do, and here it is said again, I will make it as short as possible. I'm just gonna fill in a little piece of Topic. In addition to the Ministry of the Sea, we have many offices and departments dealing with the same subject. So we have a county office, a state office at the maritime county level, we have a county maritime management department, we have port administrations, from state, county, city and municipal, we have inspection, port captains, soon there will be coast guard. So it's all really covered. And they're not amateurs, volunteers, they're professionals doing their job, and I really think it would be unnecessary to build up and increase the administration. That would be a waste of money, and for that reason I find this bill of law unnecessary and unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22578	Thank you. Next up, Mr. Representative Milan Meden. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22579	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, Prime Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Since I'm last in the debate, I'm going to try to be really brief, and I'm going to look back on just the part that maybe we haven't talked about or at least I haven't heard about, and it's almost unnecessary to explain how important the sea and sea shores are for every coastal state, and some countries have also entered wars. I believe that both the HNS Club and the PGS are for these very reasons and proposed the Law on the Agency for Planning, Management and Management, precisely with this review of the importance of the sea, seashore, fisheries, mining, sailing and tourism. According to this law, in fact, on behalf of the State, the Agency would manage maritime goods and coastal areas and develop a spatial planning strategy, control the spatial plans of municipalities and cities in line with the economic development strategy of the coast. With the proposal of this agency law, we have also received the government's opinion and two parent committees that did not support this Law. In fact, I would now like to look back at what we heard from members of the HNS and PGS Club, actually in the media at a time when he went out into a parliamentary procedure, or at clubs. That's how we are, for example. heard in "Free Dalmatia" of 20.7. where MPs quote, therefore speaking from the CNS - "Most towns and municipalities in Dalmatia do not have a spatial plan which turns this part of the country into Eldorado for a lawless city, and before it is established provides enemies among all wild investors, municipal mechanics and individuals in the body of state authorities who earn on the ground the lack of legal regulation". HNS and PGS colleagues continue to state that cities and municipalities are not in the interest of passing spatial documents, as they would be doing away with the area of bribery and corruption that local sheriffs are using today. My colleagues and colleagues, we will agree that actually the adoption of plans is crucial to introducing order in the construction plans, especially on the coast, and the answer to this question was given by Slavko Linic, who was vice-president of the government when he said it in Cavtat on 31 October last year at the Tourism Forum. I quote him: "For three years, we have extended deadlines for the adoption of spatial plans and local administrations to invest in football clubs, instead of catching jobs and protecting the space now decided by entrepreneurs and their lobbys." And this is unfortunately true, because I was the mayor in one municipality until 2001 where the budget was 3 and a half million kuna. We have collected offers for the development of spatial plans of around 700,000 kuna and this very regulations, I believe, the government and the postponement of my municipality Meden today has no plan, but we have financed in a variety of ways two football clubs amounting to these million and a half kuna a year, so I also believe that the statement from then Vice-President Slavko Linic was indeed on the trail of truth what was actually happening in the local administration all these years. Furthermore, I quote the same statements from our colleagues from the HNS. He says, "The moratorium of construction in a coastal belt 1,000 m from the sea is too restrictive, and not at all developed, under his debate, illegal construction will not stop but flourish." He goes on to say, "The bad side of the construction ban that the government advocates is ignoring the notorious fact by which no restrictions will be able to withstand the pressure of the capital of the domestic capital, and even less the foreign one at our door, and noting that the moratorium at the construction site will mostly hit investors in Dalmatia who spent the last year and a half in the process of issuing a building permit." I believe that we can also explain these statements by the proposed agency law before the Government of the Republic of Croatia passed the Croatian law that it was adopted at the 8th session of the Assembly unanimously by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Physical Planning and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction Act. We are all actually witnessing the success of the implementation of this law, which means we adopted at the 8th session, but with even greater determination, we are witnessing that the government is ending this wild construction. I can only say that by the end of this year, around 200 were removed in Istria, meaning illegal construction facilities, and yesterday in "The Voice of Istria" said 43 buildings were removed by investors themselves in the village of Kontrad near Poreč. We will agree that just the laws, these laws have passed more significant, but not the final order of lawless construction, and I believe in the design of spatial plans. I believe that these measures and a good answer to the pressure of any capital, so he was someone on the outside, domestic or foreign. I am even more confident that this very large capital will help to regulate spatial plans and implement these laws, because countries in which capital exists have long been regulated by this legislation. And when someone's talking about local sherphies, they're facts on the ground, they've created them a given opportunity, and I believe they'll fall off on their own through the implementation of this legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22580	Thank you, Mr. Representative. The replica was reported by Mr. Representative Lesar. Here you go, Comrade Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22581	Thank you very much. I sincerely thank my colleague for making all my arguments in response to the need to set up and propose this agency. I'll buy you coffee tomorrow for making my job easier, but using the arguments on your side you said, and that was said before, and everyone agrees that it's a national fortune when we mention the sea, the sea and the coast. But in any case, it does not agree, but it is acknowledged that the problems in space management exist, it does not agree to centralization of governance, management and planning, only in part as proposed law is given. You give us the right to suggest tomorrow that we decentralise the management of Croatian forests, Croatian waters, Croatian railways and mining wealth immediately, because all the rest of Croatia has no use for these national treasures, nor can it affect where the state alone rules, plans and masters. So, the only national wealth we have to have decentralised, where everything's okay, everything's fine is the sea and nothing else, and everything else that's national wealth has to stay centralized. It was just an attempt to propose the establishment of an agency, as we have Croatian forests, Croatian waters, Croatian railways, and also to use mineral raw materials in mining, and the minister knows that only the state benefits, not local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22582	Thank you, Comrade Lesar. Replicate response, Mr. Representative Madden, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22583	I've quoted you only in terms of where you're talking about spatial plans, and I've explicitly stated that you would probably be writing this law perhaps for a nuance different if you knew that the government would come out with new laws. I also said that just implementation and that determined implementation by the minister, Mrs Dropulić, of these laws, contributed precisely to the clearing of order, when we talk about the Law on Construction, both inside and on the coast, so I believe on the coast. And when we talk about the needs of decentralisation, I think it's necessary in every segment, but the state needs to know and manage the resources it actually has in a way to control the laws. And I made it very clear that it is much more high-quality to implement and control existing legislation, and these 10 million kunas that you might spend in this law, you might spend on education of an existing state administration to make it more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22584	I'd like to thank my colleague, Madden. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22585	I initially said the reasons why the government can't accept this bill and I'm not going to repeat it, but I'm going to look back a little bit on two discussions. It is clear that the centralisation of Croatian railways and decentralisation cannot be compared when it comes to the adoption of spatial plans and the rights of units of local self-government to bring, to arrange space in their area. One of the basic fundamentals and constitutional categories is the right of local self-government to edit space in its area. We are talking here today about the coastal area, clearly this is the right and on the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, but today we are talking and we are focused on the coastal area. Therefore, no one has the right to take away the possibility of city councils, the county congregations clearly depending on what plan it is, to bring spatial plans and to regulate the situation in their area. In order to avoid certain procedures in these premises and plans that are not good or not in line with the plans of the higher order or with the legislation, there is the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection which gives consent to these spatial plans in terms of I said before, their compliance with the law, or compliance with the higher order plan, and all of this is monitored and looked through this glass that we previously talked about, through a protected coastal belt, through the amendment of the Law on Spatial Planning where we have declared, where you have declared a thousand meters earlier in the hill or on land and 300 meters into the sea as a particular area of national interest for the Republic of Croatia. So it doesn't exactly say that this space is now even with all the other spaces. All areas clearly Croatia are equally valuable, but when we talk only about this space, about the sea, about one resource and that land is further assured to say, these amendments to the laws and regulations adopted by the Government so that nothing can happen in that space, but it is left to the citizens that through their parliaments of the city, through the city councils and the county councils bring plans, or to arrange space in that area. So that's one thing I wanted to say. And secondly, I cannot agree that today, when it comes to establishing the limits of maritime goods, this law proposes that the Agency determines the limits of maritime goods, I explained at the outset why it is not good, because it would take away the right again for people on the ground of local self-government units to determine it, and it works in an excellent and efficient manner today and in any case it is not and cannot be the reason for any slowdown in investment in these areas. They include not to repeat, county bodies, state administration bodies, port captains, county attorneys, local self-government in whose area will happen, etc. etc. and finally the solution is made by the ministry, and it is brought by professionals, so the people who are educated and who know the job, who know the legislation so they can't agree that they're volunteers, or people who don't really know the problem. They are professionals educated, but as we have written here for this work they do not receive any compensation. Therefore, in conclusion, what I said and in the introduction, the Government cannot accept this bill, because there is absolutely no reason to accept it, that is, everything that is proposed here, we think it is and we are sure that it has been much better solved through these legal frameworks, through the laws and through the regulations adopted by the Government in particular in the last five or six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22586	Thank you, Mr. Minister. On behalf of the promoter, Mrs Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain finally reported. Here you go, Mrs. Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22587	Thank you, Madam Vice President, thank you to the colleagues involved in this debate. It would underline some more perhaps important things from today's presentation of our bill with a note that I am actually amazed by the views of Mr. Minister, indeed the space of maritime goods and the area of coastal space is, as we all swear of exceptional importance, national good, and it is regulated and managed by that space through at least four, maybe five, and several different legal acts. This is certainly not good, and this is precisely the fact that such an invaluable great national value is regulated through different regulations, often mutually and inconsistencies, that we are witnesses to what is right in these local communities and these local environments we are all participants in any possible devastation of space, poor governance of that space, unknowns in how much to come from concessions throughout the whole region, that is, through this entire maritime good, or coastal area. We don't have complete control over it, we don't know how many years concessions have been issued, so we don't have one place from which we could consistently and concretely control, manage and control and control that space. This of course we did not expect this law to pass at all because it has not yet happened in this assembly, but at least I hope that we will provoke that the government will finally think about it, so perhaps at some point in some period that will follow, it will come to the conclusion that the government itself will offer such a similar or something similar to this proposal to us here in the debate. We are before the entry into the European Union, we have a large number of investors ahead, a large amount of capital will enter the country. It is very difficult to say no to capital force, it will be very difficult to reject potential investors. There won't be any place where you can get a quality service. It will go from municipality to municipality or city to city. Location permits, building permits will be requested, impact will be heightened, environmental impact studies. There won't be one place to manage this space. I absolutely agree that the maritime good coastal area is the same as the Croatian forests, as is the country's water economy or mining industry, that these are the resources that the state has to take care of, it must manage them from one place, regardless of, of course, the area has to be planned towards the local community and these revenues are ultimately to be distributed, but it is important that the state takes care of it and manages and lords from one place. In addition, the spatial plan, i.e. the proposal for a law on spatial planning that was in the parliamentary debate and which we adopted in the 7th month, also laid down in its provisions a 60-day deadline for granting consent to these precisely spatial plans. I think there's 170 in the coastal area, just for a reason to see exactly where it's going. I note that it is a provision that has been passed about a thousand meters in the coast and 300 meters into the sea is terribly restrictive and that it will show itself regardless of what good intentions are, that it will prove to be in a period that will result in a boom of illegal construction. And that's what we're gonna be witnesses to for the next summer. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22588	Thank you, ma'am. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this bill when the conditions are met. ... On behalf of the club? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, Mr. Kovacevic, on behalf of the HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22589	Dear Madam Vice President. This morning, the HSP Club, and the truth and the IDS Club, although they are not present, asked for the Minister of the Interior Mlinarić to inform us in full terms of the incidents of yesterday's in Savudrija Vala, and as we know, today was a new incident in 10 hours and 30 minutes. President of the Parliament, Mr. Seks said that during this session Minister Mlinaric will come. It's now seven o'clock, we don't have full information, so please see if Minister Mlinaric will come today? Did we fool him again that he's coming, and he's gone? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22590	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. Here, I will ask to check at what stage the realization of this promise is that Minister Mlinaric will inform Parliament of the situation in Savudrija Vala. So, is there any of the vice presidents here? I see there are no vice presidents. I will ask the vice president of the HDZ Club if it is possible only to check, that I do not rise from the presidential table, to check that Mrs. Byte is, this agreement on the arrival of Minister Mlinaric is being implemented. Thank you, Mrs. Byte. Comrades and colleagues, we have, Mr. Minister, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22591	Next. Proposal for a law on the Agency for Planning and Management and Management of Coastal Control and Maritime Goods. First reading, P.Z. No. 118. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on the Agency for Planning and Management and Management and Control of the Coastal Area and Maritime Goods proposed by the Club of Representatives of the HNS PGS for the reasons set out in the Government's opinion on reports of working bodies is not adopted. Please engage. The vote. Score. I find the proposed conclusion accepted by 72 votes to six abstentions and 29 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22592	My colleagues and colleagues, we have the next situation. Our session lasts until 7:00, as you know. It is now on the agenda of the draft law, i.e. on this agenda on which we are going, - Proposal for a Law on Animal Wellbeing – Proposer of Representative Ivo Banac, first reading, P.Z. No. 125. I suggest that if you agree, we begin this debate while we wait for the answer whether Mr. Mlinaric is preparing or already headed for the Parliament and we stop her and continue at the next session. Here you go, Mr. Lucin, on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22593	Madam Vice President, I'd like to ask you to continue to be congenital in the conduct of the Parliament's meetings. I remind you, today, the President of the Parliament, leading the session, has just postponed this point that we have now concluded by arguing with an explanation that there is no government representative. Since there is no government representative now... Don't, please, I'm talking about the Agency... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22594	Fellow Members, please allow Mr. Lucin, on behalf of the SDP Club, to complete and then report.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22595	Please, the promoter was here. And he literally said, when Mr. Calmeta showed up at the door, the president said, "You're too late, wait." Therefore, I would only beg if we were to be congenital. I don't mind discussing it, not discussing it, but if we're at least, we don't have to be condescending from day to day, but at least in one day that we have the same rules about holding a session.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22596	Thank you, Mr. Lucin. I must say that I respect this observation given that the previous Law was also proposed by a parliamentary club, but Mr. Calmeta announced and came to this assembly to take part in the debate and explain the government's position on this law. And the truth is, it's not only parliamentary practice, it's also a business provision. Therefore, by respecting what the Rules of Procedure and what we have practiced in this House, I accept this remark and conclude the session. I don't know if you want us to wait for an answer from Mr. Minister or, Mr. Kovacevic, do you agree that Mr. Minister will then arrive at the meeting at the next session?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22597	I agree not to go on her neck right now, on her nose.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22598	Thank you. I'm closing today's session. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22599	We're moving on to the animal welfare bill. - Proposal for a Law on Animal Wellbeing – Proposer of Representative Ivo Banac, first reading P.Z. No. 125; here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22600	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The friendship of man and animal is one of the most beautiful signs of obedience in the traditional world control. Animals obey man when man obeys the Creator. The Satisfying North says, we lose power over creatures when we deny service to the Creator. And the Yorkshire monarch Alkvin calls over a coward who did not return to his song in the spring as a lost son. That's why it's not surprising to have access to St. Francis, who spoke to animals as brothers and sisters. It's only in modernity that radically loses the traditional sense of sacrality of life that animals become soulless machines, substances that are experimented with, objects for processing in death factories. Because modern slaughterhouses really are the illustrations of that scientist attitude towards life. What is most directly present in Nazi pseudo-science, in which in the end man has become a substance whose skin or fat can be used in factory production. In his remarkable book Animal Liberation, the Australian philosopher Peter Singer refers to the typical modernist sentiment of Samuel Butler, who once said "the chicken is just the way one egg produces another." Singer's comment. Butler no doubt thought he was funny, but when Fred S. Haili president of a poultry company in Georgia who controls the lives of 225 thousand non-violent chickens, he describes a chicken as an egg maker, his words have more serious implications. To emphasize his business position, Haili adds the purpose of egg production is to earn money. When we forget that goal, then we forget what it's all about. Contrary to such a way of thinking, a traditional man was neither trying to conquer nature nor creatures in the garden. He only has the necessary measure, for he controls his own mortality in their dead bodies. A constant story from the 9th century so typical of a traditional order, in which Islamic writer Abud Bakar Iben Al Dunija says that Jesus and his disciples passed a dead dog. How terrible death, the disciples said, As the teeth of the white man were told by Jesus, and this is what he said teaching Abu Bakar to teach them how to avoid slander. The proposal for this law by a colleague and a colleague is indeed intended to extend and significantly strengthen the 1999 animal welfare law. That brought Croatian legislation back to the traditional world of co-existence with animals that recognize the feeling of suffering and pain. He was created in agreement with the Animal Friends Association whose members have long worked on the text of this proposal. Regardless of the government's negative opinion on this legislative proposal, I am extremely grateful to government experts for a detailed and unusually concrete comment, which despite its conclusions is a compliment to our undertaking. No matter how extensive and unprovoked he was. Such an attitude may correspond to the present awareness of the necessary level of animal welfare, but it cannot in any way prejudge the long-term perspective of protection already present in European legislation, regardless of economic-interest implications. That's how it's gonna be with us, if not today, then I'm sure tomorrow. I'd like to look back here at the main points of this proposal. They come from the reality of suffering and pain. So typical of the present state of our tyranny over animals. In Croatia today, chicks are cut off with hot blades by beaks, pigs are cut off by tails, and their teeth are pulled out by pliers, while bulls and pigs castrate, all without anatomy. Animals feed on a uniform diet of hormones and antibiotics to grow faster. It is precisely because of this state of affairs in our general provisions that we bring principles, precise definitions of the necessary terminology and a series of explicit prohibitions related to the death of animals, and the application of pain, suffering and injury to individual animals. The animals shall be cruelly threatened, hit, abused, overloaded8i for riding, tow or carrying loads, animal exposure to fire, hot and sharp means, feeding animals that cause suffering, transport or transport of animals under conditions which cause unnecessary suffering, abuse of animals for combat, operations against animals carried out without due care and humanity, footing of animals under conditions which cause unnecessary suffering, death, torture and exploitation of animals, whether in religious or cultural purposes, especially in film art or commercial messages, forcing animals to behave unnaturally, eviction of animals from nature or urban environments, game hunting during hunting, the release of wild animals that have been raised with the help of man in nature, therefore when they are not prepared for the survival of animals in the wild, breeding and use of animals as feed, etc. The specific chapters shall cover a number of animal protection measures, for example in holding and rearing. I'm not going to give you all the details, but I'm going to mention that here a widespread practice is also banned from highly urbanized countries of the West where cats are literally mutilated by the amputation of the panji, and a typical example of the modern world horizon where nature attaches itself to the human order. The animal protection chapter requires the use of anaesthesia in all surgical and zootechnical procedures. The chapter on the death of animals says that death can be carried out if the treatment of animals is long-term and associated with suffering and the outcome of treatment uncertain. The same chapter strictly prohibits all forms of strangulation, strangulation, and beating of animals. The animal slaughter chapter Anticipates European legislation and prohibits the slaughter of domestic animals, except when it comes to the slaughter of poultry and rabbits grown for food in the household. The Chapter on the protection of animals in transport requires the registration of carriers for that activity, except for their own needs, not more than 50 km away. The Chapter on the protection of animals in economic farming prohibits the production, import or export of animals exclusively for the purpose of the production of fur or leather. I would like to refer to a series of objections that have come from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, various experts on committees, and from the public. First of all, this bill is more relevant than the existing one, but that is why it does not lose to transparency, nor would it be difficult to implement. It just confirms how poor and insufficient the existing animal welfare law is, and as such far behind European legislation. The aim of the proposal for a law on animal welfare was to make a law that would be more detailed and, as such, more effectively cover all areas of well-being, i.e. the exploitation and abuse of animals, which unfortunately, according to all indications, there is an enormous amount. I don't see anything wrong with some areas being regulated by the Animal Wellbeing Act instead of sublegal acts. It is precisely for the reasons of better and more effective implementation of the same law and the punishment of its offenders and has entered into this detailed draft of the new law, the more I have not released any clarifications in the form of addition to the proposal, all of them have been obtained, and could be added by a special decision to the legislative proposal. I also don't see anything strange that the provisions of this proposal are intruding into several applicable legal regulations. The proposed Animal Welfare Act wants to be a roof law that will protect animal interests where they are not sufficiently and well regulated by existing legislation, for example the Hunting Act. It is also true that the establishment of new legal bodies, advisory and ethical committees is proposed here, which is not by chance again. Here the promoter was led by an example of Sweden, one of the most advanced European countries. These commissions are necessary to carry out successful surveillance where animal abuse is most intense and where surveillance is most difficult to carry out. I would refer to Article 1(2). Suggestion. In the government's view it argues that the bill is exclusive, I quote "because one law is assumed by all other laws, and there is no valid reason to do so". On the contrary. If it is the welfare of animals regulated only by the Animal Welfare Act, and in other laws there are controversial or conflicting provisions, it is in the interest of animal protection to assume that this law is in the interest of those laws that promote the killing and abuse of animals. For example, Article 54. Hunting law. In Article 2, I would refer most to a comment in the Government's opinion in which the Government disagrees with point 17, and I quote "with the formulation that the experiment is such an intervention that causes pain, suffering, stress and impaired health conditions, because it has a whole series of attempts where none of the above is present". I'd like the government to point to at least one such painless example. Just keeping animals in cages is completely unnatural, not to mention sadistic experiments with thousands of electrical shocks, bibisectation, radiation, fear tunnels, deprivation, learning helplessness, drug overdoses and opiates, etc., and also the fact that over 30 million, million animals in various so-called so-called animals are used annually in the United States alone. scientific experiments. I personally know top experts, our countrymen experimenting on monkeys, at the leading medical schools of the United States. They defend themselves to the divine benefit that comes from trying, but none, believe me, none will deny that these animals are actually subjected to cruel torture. For animals, said Isaac Basevis Singer, all people are Nazis. That is why we want to protect students in veterinary and biology, for example, at the PMF and high school students who are often past their will to carry out any experiments from completely unnecessary killing and cutting down frogs in high schools, to more sophisticated anatomical exercises in colleges. First of all, students and students have the right to object, and in Article 99(3), I propose, quote: "Students and students who do not want to look at scenes of animal dissection should not be forced or punished for their objection to conscience." In addition, it is not true that it cannot become a veterinarian without participation in various laboratory experiments on animals. In my hand here I hold video "Alternatives in Educationes" with Croatian titles showing some 450 existing alternative methods of education, from physiology and surgery to pharmacology, but without using animals, therefore, via electronic simulation. None of it's inaccessible or expensive. Knowledge will further advance with modern methods of education, but without unnecessary and brutalizing animal suffering. In Article 6(4), point (b) is replaced by the following: The government is of the opinion that animal castration from this proposal should be excluded, which is only possible in this proposal, and I quote: "in extreme need, i.e. in the event of injury or disease when such procedures contribute to the conservation of animal health". Because castration, I quote the Government's opinion: "present in the breeding of domestic animals and in cases where animal health is not at stake". That's unfortunately true. However, it is equally true that castration is unnecessary cruelty in the breeding of domestic farm animals and that uncontrollably abused under the pretext of animal health, in order for certain animals to become mild and obedient. Likewise, this bill prohibits cutting teeth and tails to pigs, and shortening the beaks of poultry in intensive breeding, so-called "debication". Which is a widespread method in battery poultry farming. Thus, the breeding of poultry in stacked wire cages in which the pangs of poultry are constantly entwined in the wire, and they are unnaturally distorted, which we would otherwise like to prohibit in Article 29. Animal farming in such circumstances, in closed rooms where it is simulated day and night, creates frustration and aggression in animals in which an industrial breeder is opposed to mutilation. There is no economic reason to justify such cruelty. In his opinion, the Government objected to an article 47 that prohibits hunting from sports. It was said, "It is forbidden to kill or hunt wild animals with an exception when there is strong scientific evidence for the justification of hunting, and to control the natural habitat when other alternative methods are not appropriate or when there is a direct danger to human life." If fox hunting is to be completely prohibited, in conservative England since July 2007, there is no reason why we would justify similar examples of antiquated heritage of the past. Why open space to criminals like those Italian, call, hunters who last Saturday as well as in so many other documented cases, smuggled 100 kilos, 100 kilos of killed protected birds. It doesn't matter if it's about smuggling from another country or if it's about protected birds. It fascinates the bloodthirsty of the hunters in question who must hold that their behavior is not entirely unsportsmanlike. In Article 51, we seek the prohibition of exactly the kind of trade in wild animals that, in the government's view, is interpreted as a ban on the accumulation of hunting grounds that have run out of game. The government also resents the ban on underwater fishing with rifles, mobile networks, harpoons, explosives, etc. Emerging nets and carts not only represent explicit examples of cruelty to animals but also destroy the marine environment in general. According to information from Charles Clover's published book, which warns of all the dangers arising from the modern practice of the world's fishing industry, the world's seas are on the verge of extinction. The European countries, including Spain, are particularly insatiable, buy fishing rights from poor African countries where they systematically destroy the last fish stocks. If we meant it seriously when we declared we were a fishing-environment zone, then we have to show that it's not about who destroys the last fish of our sea. A foreigner or a domestic gambler? Not even a caged fish is the right answer. Sometimes, Clover says, it takes about 20 tons of ground fish to feed a ton of live fish in underwater cages. A particular problem is environmental damage that goes with artificial caged fish. For example, at Bol's on Brac. In Article 69(1) of this proposal prohibits the breeding of animals for further sale, except in the case of domestic animals having an economic purpose in accordance with the Law on livestock farming. In his opinion, the government objectes that a dozen species of feathered game and just as hairy savages who, without that artificial breeding and its release into nature, would be threatened by its survival in nature. First of all, wild animals are not grown exclusively to prevent their extinction, i.e. to ensure their survival, but it is primarily for the purpose of maintaining sport hunting. But even if that wasn't the case, it was raised by any species outside nature. I'm not sure zoos are the best place to maintain a panda, especially through artificial insemination. Nor would the possible survival of a proverbial Mauritius doda be extinct by the large birds with whom in the 19th century and the modern awareness of species extinction may have been experienced by success, that by any chance some London refuge went hand in hand to maintain the continuity of this beautiful bird. I would point out that various objections not only in the government's opinion but also in the discussions, and also in the public, often act trivially and concentrate on the irrelevant. It is as if the proposing's efforts were to be caricated, thus being omitted from the sight of all forms of animal abuse. The ban on the unnatural behaviour of animals is not directed against the artistic performances of Lipicans, although it can also be debated, but primarily against the monsters of pornography with the subject of bestialism, one of the latest internet imports from the West. The aim of this proposal is not only to protect animals but also to protect man from his own humiliation and brutalization in relation to animals. Here I would refer to objections against this proposal from part of the Pet Protection Association. What worries is an extremely narrow video of these people, they don't seem to see other animals except possibly dogs. I do not understand how associations can advocate that Croatia retains the existing very border law on animal welfare. Moreover, they suggest that the promoter wants the murder of unsettled dogs as if the current 30-day term were in shelters after which the death is worth every praise. First of all, the proposal for a law in Article 66(1) clearly states that abandoned and lost animals must be placed in for that purpose, in which they will be provided with permanent accommodation or further fosterment to a safe and quality home, the financing of these institutions, as well as the organisation of a programme of control and supervision of unwanted animals and stray animals must be provided by the county. Point 2 mentions shelters where permanent accommodation will be provided to lost and abandoned animals, and point 3 tells the responsibilities of the local community to provide alternative shelter for such animals. So nothing from the sea. However, in point 7 of the proposal advocates special conditions for the insurance and operation of animal shelters and hygiene services, wuldo shinteraj. It is also noted that the existing Regulation is not sufficiently applied in a series of private shelters, which are part of the part under the supervision of some of the associations mentioned above. We have to keep that fact in mind when it comes to who's really protecting the interests of animals and who's making money on them. Finally, the proposal for a law on the welfare of animals is on the trail of recent European and Western legislation. I welcome the ban on the battery breeding of poultry in Switzerland and Austria, the ban on selling eggs of chickens grown in battery cages in the Netherlands, the ban on breeding pigs and calves in the narrow borders in Great Britain, the ban on the occupation of ears and tails of dogs in Austria, the ban on keeping lions and tigers for circus spots in Austria, the ban on forced shopping of geese in California, the ban on trade in furs of dogs, cats, seals in Belgium. The introduction of animal rights into the constitution of Germany, the large fines for leaving the dogs in Italy, the prohibition of breeding animals for fur in Austria, the ban on fox hunting in Scotland, England and Wales, and other provisions already adopted as well as many others that are in the adoption phase. I will conclude with the conclusion of Peter Singer in his already mentioned book quote: "The animals themselves are unable to demand their own release, or protest against the conditions in which they are held through votes, demonstrations and boycotts. Human beings have the power to continue to suppress other species forever until then until we make this planet inappropriate for living creatures. Will our tyranny continue by proving that morality means nothing when it conflicts with personal interest such as the most cynical poets and philosophers have always spoken or we will do something and prove our ability to truly altruism by stopping our reckless exploitation of the species that are in our power. Not because the rebels or terrorists forced us to do it, but because we realize that our position is morally undefense.". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22601	Thank you very much. The Legislative Committee? Agriculture and forestry? Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22602	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On October 8th, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on animal welfare submitted by Professor Prof. Dr. Ivo Banac has been acting on 21 June 2004. Proposal for a Law on Animal Welfare of Proposer Prof. Dr. Ivana Banca was discussed by the Committee as a parent working body. Following the opening explanation of the motions and representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and Water Economy, the members of the Committee are familiar with the opinion submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 27 August on the proposed law. In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia states that the proposal for that law is not acceptable because it is too widespread and therefore loses its transparency and would be difficult to implement. Many provisions penetrate a whole series of applicable laws. The Veterinary Act, the Hunting Act, the Sea Fisheries Act, and others, and its implementation would require additional resources in the state budget. In the debate on the proposal for this law, it has been pointed out that it is not sufficiently professionally prepared and that many of the proposed solutions are therefore inconclusive and contradictory. However, the opinion was also expressed that this proposal could serve as a good incentive for faster and more comprehensive regulation of this significant area. On the basis of the debate held, with a majority of votes of 6 votes with 5 abstentions, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the next conclusion, which is that the proposal for a law on the welfare of animals ofproposer Prof. Dr. Ivo Banca for the reasons mentioned in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22603	Thank you very much to the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, the Honored Representative on behalf of the Committee Marko Širac, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22604	Mr. President. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament at the 12th session held on 23 September discussed the proposal for a Law on Animal Wellbeing submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by Prof. Dr. Ivo Banac is a representative of the Croatian Parliament by act of 21 June 2004. In accordance with Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee considered the subject matter act as an interested working body. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on animal welfare is rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22605	Thank you. Does a representative of the government want to explain his opinion now or later? Now or later? Later, thank you very much. We're going to a club debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Vladimir Kurecic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22606	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representative governments, colleagues and fellow MPs. The awareness that animals are being felt by suffering and pain, the concern of animal welfare and the legislation resulting from it is certainly a civilizational reach, whose level should be the administrative proportion to the level of development of a society. This is also the case in our country where the issue is recognised, and the sensitivity to animal welfare was shown in February 1999 when the Croatian National Assembly adopted the Animal Welfare Act. Therefore, the applicable law regulates the care of animals through animal welfare in keeping and breeding, in performing health care and dental procedures, regulates the possibility of killing animals, the protection of animals in transport, the protection of animals in economic farming, the protection of animals for society, wild animals in nature, zoos, circuses and exhibitions, the protection of abandoned and lost animals, the protection of animals in breeding for further sale, for experiments and other scientific research, shall establish further control of the application as well as penalties in the event of their infringement. The existing law is certainly not ideal, but it is real and good. In the AVI of 20 April this year is mentioned as a good basis for future development, and we will definitely need in the context of adapting legislation to the existing law to work but not in the way and with the solutions offered by the Law on the welfare of fellow representatives of Dr. Banca. However, although there are good solutions and interesting ideas in this proposal that may be discussed again, the number of solutions to this proposal is not realistic and could be called futuristic. In addition, the proposal is too much to deal with with 43 articles in the current law here is proposed 127 articles, which would be difficult to implement, the more some articles in collegiate with other articles of the same proposal, and some in a conflict with solutions from other laws. Nevertheless, this is what the Proposer says is about the proposal of the roof law. This proposal, apart from many other prohibitions, prohibits, for example, the use of animals for traditional and cultural purposes. It is forbidden to force animals to behave naturally. Dressures, sports competitions, chariot pullers could also be placed in the category of unnatural behaviour. For example, this proposal should not be castrated by males or carried out by mutilation, the number of rodents could be regulated by sterilisation means, and the death of rodents only after drowsiness. All animals are listed in the law, all animals should be introduced into the animal register and the like. This proposal would also prohibit the breeding of animals for genetic progress, as well as breeding of animals in order to achieve certain external features, this otherwise selection work would be at stake. According to Article 47 of the proposal, killing or hunting wild animals would be prohibited except in some cases, I would say more difficult to prove. Several types of fishing would be prohibited, as would trade in wild animals as well as the use of animals at circus points, the hosting of such circuses in the Republic of Croatia. It would be prohibited to use animals for educational purposes in cases where it could cause anxiety in animals. And students and students of the Veterinary College should not be cut off because of their complaints, so in that case, there would be a danger of having two types or two categories of veterinarians, one of whom had completed a college of sicing through the subject or exercise of anatomy and others who could or should not because of your conscience. Some of the provisions of the bill that I have mentioned in some media in the past days are two relatively related to the proposal, but it should be pointed out that what the bill says is what I have stated and what I have commented on. Only a few of these examples can reflect the consequences of this bill, such as economics, tourism and other areas. Furthermore, the fact that the supervision of the implementation of this law should be carried out by as many as three ministries, the Ministry of Agriculture, environmental protection, science, in order to further justify the advisory and ethical committee refutes the claim in the introduction of this proposal that no additional resources in the state budget should be required for the implementation of the law. My colleagues and colleagues, some called this bill dilettaneous, the word used at the Committee on Agriculture session. Some, such as 17 associations, have opposed or opposed him, although some of them are allegedly co-proposers, the Animal Friends Association is also listed as co-proposers and in the case in which they are against this proposal, so I do not understand what is true in this case. Some may call this bill futuristic, etc. All in all, this proposal is not real right now. And because of all of the above, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22607	I thank the esteemed representative Kurečić. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative of Tonino Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22608	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Although the Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture and Forestry rejected the proposal of the Animal Welfare Act, it still retains its value as a cause for debate on matter that exceeds the topic of living world management in Croatia. In line with the views of the competent parliamentary authorities, it could indeed be critical to discuss the nomotechnics of the level of expertise, to discuss the scope of the proposal, its applicability, as well as the means necessary to implement the requirements. However, the need to regulate the area in a new and better way is unquestionable not only for the national economy but also for strengthening culture to violence and consideration to those who themselves are unable to seek help. In fact, this and similar laws speak of our relationship to the living world at all. A country that has recently experienced destruction and mass destruction should support new mechanisms and living world standards among the first ones. This approach should be respected regardless of the facts that say that many European countries do not currently apply the standards that the proposal seeks to establish. It should, however, be mentioned, in Germany, which has become the first European country whose amended Constitution guarantees animal rights. That's Article 20a. The German general law states: The state takes responsibility to protect the natural foundations of life and animals in the interest of future generations. and the European Parliament adopted a Law prohibiting most animal cosmetic testing and selling cosmetics elsewhere in the European Union. The Charter of the United Nations on the Protection of Animals has globally determined the relationship of the world organization to the co-existence of living species in nature with a special responsibility for man. In addition, a number of countries in the world have banned various forms of cruelty towards animals by eliminating Croatia's alibi for the adoption of a new more extensive animal welfare law that happens with uncertain consequences. This proposal is not and should not be understood only as a law on the protection of pets or animals for the society of those who have separated special circumstances from the circle of animals devoid of particular human care. Moreover, the proposal should not only be recognised by restrictions because there is no protection and well-being without effective influence on behaviour and actions contrary to the very foundations of humanity. It should be recalled that the protection of animals and the constitutional obligation of which the basic legal act is referred to in Article 52. Today, the sensitivity of our citizens is to the quality and origin of products that we use higher than ever before. For example, it would be difficult to refuse to use genetically modified organisms in Croatia with a new approach to animal protection. It's about the same kind of relationship to nature and responsibility to preserve it. A dangerously disrupted partnership with the nature of our environment, whose evolutionary performance itself cannot be restored without new sensitivity to the position as well as rights of other forms of the living world. The real animals come from the right to live. In this respect, animal welfare should be addressed, which is a concept that advocates the treatment of animals by respecting their dignity from the concept of animal rights that insists on rights which cannot be denied. The proposed text after several years, more precisely than the adoption of the earlier law of 1999, returns to the Assembly the subject of animal welfare. It is an attempt to really intensively and in certain parts to address animal welfare issues in keeping and rearing them, their health care and the performance of the zoo of technical procedures, deaths, transport protection, economic farming or further sales. The proposal speaks of the protection of wild animals in nature but in zoos, exhibitions and entertainment. He has the ambition to deal with the increasingly serious problem of protecting abandoned and lost animals while giving particular attention to animal protection for experiments and other scientific research. The proposer also foresees the formation of inter-resor bodies whose duty would not only be advisory but would also take care of the ethical dimension of this matter. In particular, the powers of the national authorities and the criminal provisions for law enforcement shall be clarified. I believe that in this House no one who at least quietly approves of known slogans of animals must suffer to create a quality product, or purity without cruelty will not dispute that our debate today should become a serious legislative initiative. Mr. Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, this bill can be referred to as I have already said many remarks because part of the solution is difficult to implement and some, in the opinion of experts and activists, raises questions and good solutions from the applicable law, as is the case with Article 66(2) of the Law, which puts abandoned animals in animal shelters which are unfortunately not available in Croatia. There are also doubts about the obligation to microchip all animals for society and others. However, if the parliamentary majority maintains the view that this bill should not be released in further procedure, the Government of the Republic of Croatia should respect the obligation to submit its legislative proposal as soon as possible. However, it is also said in the government's explanation that the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Wellbeing Act is scheduled next year, but it would be more rational if the procedure had started already today, as it is not an emergency procedure that opens up space and for the most serious completion of this proposal. Therefore, the Social Democratic Party Club of Croatia supports this bill as an expression of its serious intention to further interest the Croatian public in animal welfare and their legal protection to the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22609	I thank the esteemed representative of Toni's Piculi. It is on behalf of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22610	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Well, as is known, there is an Animal Wellbeing Act that regulated the mentioned problem but we must agree that the fact that this area needs to be regulated in accordance with the changes that are taking place, especially in the European Union, and, of course, on behalf of the HSS Club, I thank the Assembly representative for his efforts and I think that this is the way the interest of the entire Croatian public in a particular segment is aroused. But we can talk about this law not only from the point of view of animal welfare but also from other aspects, so I'll say a few words about it. In the government's view, the legislative proposal is very detailedly affected by the veterinary or technical implementing parties, and I don't think there's much to be added and mixed up about it. The fact is that this law will be brought into line with European Union legislation as well as on the government's own opinion, but the fact is also not publicly stated a strategy that will be led by our negotiators during negotiations with the representatives of the European Union. I have repeatedly warned here in the Croatian Parliament that a government strategy should be presented, concrete views of the Croatian government and that they should be confirmed in this Croatian Parliament. You ask what the reasons are, why I'm asking for it, and why I'm saying it here when it comes to the Animal Wellbeing Act. I believe that this proposal highlights one area that directly affects that part. I'll try to locate those two areas and it's primarily hunting and one thing so-called. traditional cottages or what the Slavons would call pigs. These areas are defined by the law adopted in the Croatian Parliament and the laws will also be laid down in negotiations with representatives of the European Union and we will, of course, only retrospectally confirm the already decided matters without the possibility of affecting decisions as has already happened. As far as the cradles are concerned, they appear to be crying, asking whether we are changing the cabins for Croatia's entry into the European Union. This bill is being abolished in a traditional way and some new requirements are being put in front of the peasants on whose need to introduce them, I don't think it's necessary to waste time. I would spend time asking the representatives of the government who are present here if our villages will be able to continue smoking boilers in November and December and traditionally socialize our peasants next to the cabins. I think it's extremely important to announce this part because it enters these negotiations most directly, and I think there's going to be a lot more words about it. We have seen the Croatian Government negotiate and burn on Protocol 7 which, unfortunately, the European Union has not yet applied. But that's why our imports are higher in the first eight months than in the whole last year and unfortunately by the end of the year will increase by almost 30.40% compared to last year. I must point out here that the law of the small door introduces and bans the hunt, and abolishing the hunt, which I find extremely inadmissible. And yet what shows is that the very essence of hunting and the concept of a thief is not understood. I must react on behalf of all Croatian hunters who, let us not forget, have made no small contribution to the Homeland War. And with their hunting rifles among the first to defend our beautiful. It is known that the Croatian Hunting Association is a Croatian hunting alliance that operates through the county hunting alliances and the hunting alliance of the city of Zagreb. In its membership, the Croatian Hunting Union brings together about 50,000 hunters and about 2,000 hunters, and about 830 hunting associations and other legal entities. In hunting, hunting and shooting savages are wasted at the very least of their time, over the winter hunters organize duty, feed game, which is often the only option of survival. Hunting sites in Međimurska, Varazdinska, Zagreb, Istria County are one of the most model European hunting sites. I think that thinking and proposing that in the European countries, for example, in the UK only in 2007 is a question of abolishing traditional hunting, something that should surely be thought about. However, we have before us a law that definitely speaks about the need to do so immediately and now here in Croatia. I think we still have to keep in mind everything I've said, that hunting is something that isn't just something that sometimes wants to be shown killing animals, but also a certain one of the deeper contents that I've been talking about. I wouldn't want my exposure to show that I'm safe for the protection and welfare of animals. But surely we must also have the thought that there is a measure in the particular and protection and welfare of animals, but also the overall well-being of people. Because if we don't have a good relationship, I think we can go the wrong way. Finally, I would suggest that, in the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia commits itself to giving us some clarifications and, as far as we have seen from its explanations, giving and announcing certain bill proposals, which will be put into the procedure. However, it also defines what will happen in the area of a certain law by entering the European Union, which works must be negotiated and which we really define and propose in a certain law. I think there's one more time in the end that I'd like to support the initiative of the MP himself, but certainly with all those removals that we're in the name of the club that I've brought out here. And of course the club will refrain from voting positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22611	I thank the esteemed representative Pankretić. On behalf of Club IDS Damir Cain, he's not in the hall. And it's on HNS territory right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22612	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representative of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. It is my fault that I have to express my dissension with Mr. Banc, but this law is in line with the road safety issue that imposes an unnatural and unnecessary standard of 0.0 change. Just as the 0.0 prominence of the legislator has not thought about why it will cause this norm on the economic basis of the country, so this law does not consider what kind of behaviour imposes on a large part of Croatian citizens, I claim this law is probably a good fair intention. Like the intentions proposed by 0.0 promila, it was likely also motivated by the reduction of severe car accidents. But as we all know, we can drive after drinking beer or two children of wine, and someone would say better. We also know that this law that is proposed here is the stunning of animals before the slaughter is inconclusive. Because don't forget and Mr Pankretic talked about it, how now there's a pig's stake going so that no one in Croatia would listen to you. Do we know what we're proposing here? In Croatia, one-third of households are rural, all of them for their own purposes and for their own consumption are kept by animals. Is that what someone wants to say in the yard in Istria? They'd tell me in a basket you can't slaughter a pig. You have to take her to a slaughterhouse where she'll be reduced to anesthesia and so on. And well, no matter what we talk about it, someone's gonna say it sounds morbid, but does anyone think you're a good part of our peasants can afford it? I can't. There's a bunch of people who've been receiving pensions for about 1,500 kunas. Minimum income from selling some agricultural product, they have to pay everything, and simply gentlemen, they can't afford it. Gentlemen of Croatia is not only Zagreb, Rijeka, Pula, or Split, but finally from these cities one third of the population is going to the cabins to say here, because there are only one third of the population from the rural parts of the Republic of Croatia. We don't usually have the right to touch. It's part of the custom it's more than that, I'd even dare say part of some kind of existence. A law like this can be written for pets. It has no problem.a But one is life in Zagreb, another in my Buzet, in the suburbs of Osijek, I don't know how Kramarić will return to Osijek. Or the suburbs of Chakovec, Virovitica, Slavonski Brod. It is clear that animals need to be treated in an appropriate way, and finally does anyone think that our people do not. Are we underestimating our people? We don't think they're some psychos who want to live on animals. They're not there, or I'm saying there's very few of them. I'm only talking about this law because of all those people in my Buzet, the Kaiins, the Smurfs, the Squires, the Drasčićs, the Pengarys I don't know the Jelovics, the Marchanegles and the Livadas who could now be banned from slaughtering a pig in their basket. Gentlemen, that's a social problem, then. It's like someone's trying to shut down that village that notes the source of our identity. We have destroyed these people, these winemakers with a 0,0 prominence provision, they are required to pay for each service and now we no longer give them as Mr Pankretic said just before, to gather the family around it under the allegations of the events. I assure you it's harmful. We're not even allowed to poison rodents now, so I'm afraid soon someone will also ban those cartoons about Tom and Jeri. But let's put the joke aside. Has anyone calculated how much life would have cost by applying laws like this? I claim, significantly, unless it's intended for tomorrow's purpose, I don't know we all become vegetarians and move from our beliefs to our commitment to something else. However, there is one proverb in Istria, about, "Cha is for Istria, not for Africa." Namely, there in the mid-30s after Mussolini conquered Ethiopia, he took down an old Austrian-Hungarian railway, a steamed one, and wanted to transfer it to Africa. Somewhere in the middle of the Mediterranean, that ship submerged, and since then, that saying saying, don't touch the customs, don't touch the tradition, etc. Okay, someone might say, in Europe it's different. I'm saying it's not. But nowhere is likely, not anywhere, but nowhere is as this law suggests. However, Europe has, at least it has western uncomparably higher incomes than Croatia per capita, incomparably lower prices of food products, so changing lifestyles rather will endanger our standard than improve the standard. I am also interested in these provisions of Article 47 prohibiting de facto from hunting. Again, there's nothing in Europe. Well, we're not going to be experimenting with our people here right now, although after that 0.0 standard, I wouldn't be surprised. I'm not a hunter and I don't have a high opinion of hunting myself, but I respect people who are hunters and who aren't just going hunting for the mere need to shoot an animal. It's not their only concern. In fact, hunters, and the truth is that the hunts are getting smaller, they're also behaving a whole series of other useful jobs that ultimately allow these wild animals to survive. Article 2 says: Animals are all mammals except men, birds, reptiles, amphibians, fish, unkings, etc. So, the fish, too. Yes, of course. In this article 54, gentlemen, it literally stands, says no fishing, underwater, crack, and with the help of lifting equipment, underwater nights, moving nets, harpoons, explosives, clearly, that is logical, poisons, etc. I don't know, but it's like someone planted it on the promoter. I don't know, maybe writing this article could be a motive for wanting to resolve the Piran Bay or - Savudria Wave, that our fishermen Latin, Kolec and society will not be allowed to hunt, will not sail from Savudrija, and Slovenians will not cross the middle line with their police ships. It is one way perhaps to resolve the Croatian-Slovenian distinction, only that gentlemen with the existence of thousands, thousands or tens of thousands of Croatian fishermen. What do we do now suddenly with so-called. In addition to fishing? It just can't survive. It's something you can't accept. Article 62 prohibits circus points with animals. What kind of European country does that exist in? I'm not a fan, I'm not a fisherman, I'm not a fisherman, I'm not a fisherman, I'm not a fisherman, I'm not a fisherman, I'm not a fisherman, I'm not a fan, I'm not a fan of these circuses, but I just don't have it anywhere in Europe. Has anyone heard of a European country banning it? It's not. I have the impression simply that after the social defender, the lawyer for gender equality, the guardian for children, we will now come into a situation that we will also introduce ourselves by quotes, to make a joke about, "the animal defender" or, as Article 2 says for birds, reptiles, amphibians, fish, queenless etc. What's with the shells? And the shells grow in this country thousands of people. Well, it's not just a game. For the end. This law, I think, is still out of time, these solutions don't exist anywhere, some sort of partial solution that was spoken of by the promoter, yes, but not like this. This is, I don't know, maybe a law for vegetarians and those who live in big cities, metropolis, but a large part of our country is rural and we finally get to the very penalty. They're dragonish, too, out of space and out of time. From 20 to 100,000 kuna for those who, for example, they trade in animal products, but I don't know if they could be subjected to pumpkins, paragraph 11 of Article 119. In paragraph 12, he hunts fish against Article 54, holds a circus, etc. In one word, such a law at this time in the Republic of Croatia is inconclusive and would do enormous economic and any other damage. He offers solutions that don't know each other, I think he's even at war with our custom. Clearly, it is not customary for anyone to experience it, nor for animals, but I also assure you, that the people who have it, mainly our farmers, are taking care of these animals. From my father and beyond. However, I also assure you that our people, even though that concept is mentioned here, are not Nazis when animals are compared. There are good solutions, IDS is that this legislative proposal is going towards another reading, believing that in the famous parts it will change, and I believe that at this point it would be far better to talk about the protection of our indigenous breeds, from the boscarins, the bottoms, the Međimurje horse, some other breeds, etc. There is a clear need to take care of nature, to take care of animals, humanity, the survival of all species, of ethics at last, however, and of everyday life. I repeat, the IDS Club has no objection to another reading, and it is good that at this moment, one such legal proposal has been found, which one will strongly dispute, one will praise, and all with the aim of instigating the interest of the Croatian public and so much is successful, regardless of what solutions from this legislative proposal are made by my deep court in the karate I come from, the mentality that I belong to, etc. They're unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22613	I thank the esteemed representative Caine. A word on behalf of the SDSS Club, honourable representative Milorad Pupavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22614	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Unlike my colleague Cain, I didn't take Professor Banc's proposal so restrictively. I didn't take it as a kind of totalitarian initiative in relation to animals that would rule out any human component human history knows about animals. I understand my colleague Cain's concerns about the topics he's opened, but I don't think it would be fair for this initiative to be classified into some kind of ecological totalitarianism. And you might get the impression that's the way it is. Unlike the approach of other colleagues, both the HSS and the SDP and HDZ who did not recognise this kind of initiative, but something I would like to say now, two. It is absolutely certain that history, human history, shows that the relationship between man and animal is an integral part of a culture, or an integral, indicator of a culture that exists among humans. The degree of violence we manifest towards animals is rarely an indicator of human violence. That's what many cultures of human beings confirm. And in this respect, I actually understand this initiative of Professor Banca, not only as a legislative initiative but as an appeal for a different culture that we as a society can have within ourselves, especially the animal world. And if you'll allow me, especially Mr. Secretary of State, I'd like to refer to a phenomenon that gets places on the pages of our newspaper from time to time. In the last two weeks, our newspapers have rightly, our media have rightly highlighted the fact that the important activities of our border services, our police at the borders they have held, brought and initiated criminal proceedings against those from neighbouring countries, above all, Serbia-Montenegro, then further countries such as Romania, foreign citizens, have been carrying large quantities of animals that are protected species. Died in a kind of unauthorized hunt. And now I'd like to ask us a question here, is that what's going on with us? Is this happening in Croatia? Does it happen that the same kind of police that we have caught at our border with the right and export from our country in a similar way under the same circumstances as they do in neighbouring and other countries? Who have not done enough and needed to protect their species, especially protected species? And now let me say exactly what I mean. In areas of special state concern, the State has introduced a concession system for the hunting grounds. And wherever you go, you can see the board in every village, in every village. Fortunately, you can't see in Knin, but in the neighboring village to Kistanj you can see in the family houses the term "state hunting ground" or "hunt it and that" which allows people not only to hunt without control but to hunt even by village. And in doing so, hunters poison dogs, destroy crops and, of course, create a situation that is inadmissible to security and respect for what every country must respect and every hunting culture must respect. In 15 days or a month, a large number of such, mostly foreign citizens, will enter the area of Northern Dalmatia and like. I ask this High House who controls how many Chevys, how many other species do these people kill over three months how long do they stay and move? So if we haven't been able to prevent the devastation of the domestic livestock fund, the animal fund in the area after Storm, and the consequences of this so far, can we prevent it from happening today? Do we have a obligation that we can literally consider not only our own treasures, national but general human treasures because rare species are something that belongs and is a matter of general human values and general human treasures, can we prevent it? I would also ask the Government from this place, Mr. Secretary of State, so if it is necessary for this House, that all those who have these concessions, and the question is, how do they relate to their obligations to the state when it comes to these concessions, be strictly controlled when it comes to the allow of catches both by number and by species? Because there are indications and there are indications that what our police say is happening in other countries is happening with us. And in that sense, if you allow me on behalf of the Club I speak, on behalf of the SDSS, we may not agree with any provision proposed by the esteemed Professor Banac, but when it comes to the spirit of that Law, the spirit of that proposal, we absolutely support it. For a different culture towards animals, for a different relationship to something without which human race and species simply cannot exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22615	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22616	Mr. Vice President, I'm going to correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of the Popovec where he claimed that where the plates of the hunting grounds are in every place or village in the house that hunting is allowed. That's not an accurate finding. Hunting is allowed 300 metres from each settlement, according to the Hunting Act and therefore is not allowed to hunt in populated areas but only 300 meters from the settlement and from the houses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22617	Thank you very much. What do you want? ... He can't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Correction no in...... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Professor Dr. Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22618	Mr. Vice President of the Assembly, Baby. Unlike some, I find this legal proposal extremely important. Civilization says significantly more important than the discussion of the arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. As far as the contents of the Law are concerned, the Law is written as if it were written by the animal king. So if animals were asked to write the law, they would probably write the law, or such a legal proposal would be proposed by St. Francis. I'm a fan of animals. At home, I have a schnooker bitch, perhaps the last of a generation with bought ears, it's the personal gift of the late President Franjo Tudjman to my son Frani. Animal relations are a standard, among other things, civilization of a society, and I think it is good that this bill appears to point to some kind of animal utopia and warn us as citizens of Croatia, to whom God and the happy historical circumstances have granted this happiness that we have not destroyed some or most of the animal species that we have inherited from our great grandfathers and grandfathers, to tell us don't destroy them. If you go to Europe, you will see that there is no bee in nearby Switzerland for 30 years, that there are no bee birds, that there are not many animal species whose development of civilization and the insatiable relationship to nature and animals threatens eradication. As for the relationship of different cultures to animals, I'll tell you two anecdotes. I was in Thailand in the city of Chiang Mi, it's up on, in North Thailand where there was a bridge on the river Kwai, and I found a big rat in the room. And I tried to kill him, I failed, and I went to protest with the receptionist. The moment I protested, I saw the receptionist feed two rats. So in Buddhist culture, killing animals or killing rats is ominous and culturally unacceptable. In that sense, I think that this law is unfortunately unacceptable, but it has the meaning of a civilizational, almost animal cry that we don't allow when highways are built that we don't think about liquefied bears, that we're thinking about species that by the logic of things we're going to root out to think about that one sneeze at the Lastovos is 45 kg, and finally why it's unacceptable. I will tell you an anecdote for birth technologies in Zagreb. My friend, a nurse named Mary Fallow, was assigned by a world health organization to visit several maternity or maternity homes in Croatia and to describe how women are born in Croatia. She came very pedanically and watched at the Holy Spirit as children were born and when she wrote her report she gave me to read it I was terrified, she said aggressive nurses wouldn't let their fathers in the door of the birth, it was 70 years old, frightened husbands and younger children were waiting under the window of the woman waiting for them through the rope windows to deliver baskets in which they put cotton, little flowers, one letter, little food and fruit, mostly as she described it seemed pretty monstrosistic, I tried to answer her to write such a monstrous report on technologies and birth practice in Croatia because I was humanly injured and explained to her why it was impossible in Croatia to reach the ideal that all women were born at home in professional medical care, in comfort conditions, I explained how many women had no housing, how much there was no water and how few toilets and the report had been released. These provisions that say that animals must have good conditions for being associated with humans are undeniable humanistic good-intonated provisions, but they are unacceptable in Croatia and people do not have apartments,... a dog schnauzer should have a separate treatment at home. This is certainly worth it and it is a real shame that in this law, without even the thorns of cynicism and irony, Mr. Fiolić, who is in this business like all other people, said. Because this bill actually became Dr. If a bankman who can propose such a law is certainly not a bad man to be sure, it was suggested by an association that I met with, I joined them, they truly and deeply love animals and therefore such a proposal is a warning to us, and that some clubs themselves were talking about I would read a short pamphlet and then I would finish the very association of friends of animals that probably intervened with Dr. A bank in the bill of this law. I was contacted by a whole mass of other animal friends with various values of experience and futuristicity, so they were angry with Dr. The bank on this proposal but I think this represents to say a radical version of friendship with animals that we must deeply respect and anyone who wants to mock this bill makes a bad service to this High House and to the Croatian country and the future of a harmonious relationship between animal and world and nature and people. Animal Friends say this: "In light of the changes to the existing laws of the European Union and beyond, the Animal Friends Association would once again like to point out the necessity to change the incomprehensible bad existing law on the welfare of the animals of the Republic of Croatia." Animal Friends maintain that the existing law does not comply with the laws of the European Union and that, as such, it cannot meet the criteria of countries wishing to be part of the European Union. Unlike the existing Law, this is why the new Animal Friends Act seeks to monitor these changes that occur at this time in the rest of Europe, and in almost three times as long a proposal from the existing Law, they want to ban circuses with animal dots, cabins, experiments with animals, especially for cosmetic purposes, notes, I am in medical school, and you need to see a lot of experiments with animals that are very instructive, for example if you have a male rat in a cage and expose it to Pink Floyd for a long time will get hypertension and can get cancer. If you have a rat with a rat and someone who provides social support, the same stimuli will not manifest such pathological changes. Not to mention the difficult conditions and irregularities of animal experiments, it wants to prevent the fur industry from trading protected exotic animal species. Inhuman breeding and transport of farm animals, battery farming chickens hunting from sports and entertainment, killing abandoned and lost animals for society and other forms of animal abuse. As to what Mr Cain was talking about, it is not entirely true that the proposals in this Law do not have their own role models in different European countries and that society draws attention to them. Following changes to the laws of the Western countries banning battery farming of chickens in Switzerland and Austria, banning the sale of eggs of chickens grown in battery cages in the Netherlands, banning the breeding of pigs and calves in the narrow bulkheads in Great Britain, banning the purchase of ears and tails to dogs in Austria, banning the keeping of lions and tigers for circuses in Austria, banning forced swimming of geese in California, banning trade in furs in dogs, cats and seals in Belgium, the introduction of animal rights to German Constitution, large fines for leaving dogs in Italy, banning breeding of fur animals in Austria, banning of foxes with dogs in Scotland, England and Wales, and many other provisions already adopted as well as those already in the adoption phase of the Croatian Parliament will propose them. Ivo Banac. Therefore, I think that we must respect this legal proposal, read it well, certainly reject it, but be aware that the subject it is driving imposes an additional form of responsibility on us to treat nature, plant and animal life with much more respect, however, it would suggest that we treat each other with more respect. So I'm congratulating dr. Ivo Banca on the bill, unfortunately, the HSP Club and I can't personally support him.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22619	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS PGS Club, Ms. Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22620	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. I thank my colleague Banac for his proposal for the Animal Welfare Law provoked this debate today and significantly improved the protection of the animal world compared to the protection that was first regulated by the Law in 1999. The observation and treatment of animals as primarily sensitive beings and the proposal of new standards in the protection of quality that contributes to the nature of the animals themselves but speaks even more about ourselves, the level of our consciousness and sensibility to the pain and suffering that we daily overpowerfully cause bad habits over powerless beings. The proposals concerning improving the standards of keeping and relations with animals, animal health control, and the prohibition of animal abuse and the processing of perpetrators are greatly in line with the already accepted standards of the European Community country and their harmonisation today will be much easier. Although, at first glance, this proposal for a law on animal welfare seems to be too radical for the traditional environment to which we belong is that today's regulation does not have almost any possibility of insight or intervention in industrial animal breeding or established criteria for the use of animals in laboratory research or prescribed protocols for the care of abandoned animals and the procedures for euthanizing the same animals. Today in the Republic of Croatia only Zagreb has such a shelter for abandoned animals Dumovac, which is managed by the veterinary station of the city of Zagreb, not a very happy solution, because the contract is renewed annually and an uncertain investment in improving the quality of such a stationary. By forming a city company modelling the Zagreb Zoo or Sljeme and by taking over the functions performed today by the veterinary hygiene service, so-called. It would be resolved in one place and the question of hunting for abandoned animals, vaccination, holding them in quarantine, but so would the animal. The law is indeed as noted in the government's opinion too strong. A certain change in notification could be maintained only on essential provisions, and details of application should be regulated by more flexible sublegislative acts. But it would certainly highlight his important educational character in raising a strong traditional public awareness of animals as beings who feel suffering and pain. Improving the quality of life for animals and minimalising the application of pain, i.e. disabling the application of pain through a regulatory mirror is our civilizational reach, and therefore, in a number of remarks that follow from individual articles, the HNS Club supports the proposal of this law. Comments are mostly nomotechnical in nature and except in the hunting issue section, which requires a more careful and long-term alignment with the current regulation very easily and could simply be removed. So we can go through the articles. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It would be desirable to delete because it says it quotes, whose survival is not dependent on man. Because unfortunately, all wild animals today depend on man. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth As a rule, euthanasia is not carried out by narcotic means, i.e. The preparation is a different composition, so one nomotechnical correction again. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Can an unscrupulous animal be beaten? Article 4(2)(e) shall be prohibited, preparing to combat other animals or humans. Although Article 118 solves the use of official dogs, they should have been singled out here in a special way. Article 4(2) prohibits the exploitation of animals for traditional, religious and cultural purposes. This indicates that it would be prohibited to use animals, for example, in theatre performances, filmmaking, living nurseryes for Christmas, perhaps this article should only be more precisely formulated. In Article 5(2), the owner of animals shall report each animal to the animal register. It's not fully visible who's running the register. Criminal provisions do not provide for penalties for not applying to that same register. So these are new shortcomings that could be quite simply eliminated. Article 10(3) is replaced by the following: Which is exactly what the Proposer was going to say. Who will, how and why sterilize, for example, rats? Maybe it was meant for some form of sterilization by chemical means. But it's not visible from the article. Article 14(2) prohibits the use of toxic products which is in conflict with Article 10(3) which... Deratization. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Article 19(1) prohibits loading and transport during heavy heat and cold, or cold. What are the limits to which the inspector will prohibit loading or even better transport if it is under way, where with animals? So these are all things that would be much simpler if some sublaws were regulated, because then they could be more precise. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It prescribes the issue of certificates of knowledge relating to livestock breeding. The question, on what basis does the State Inspectorate issue that certificate, if it's a course, who's holding it on both the program and who's paying it? Since this is not worked out, this item should be completed or deleted. Article 25 discusses the protection of animals in economic cultivation. In practice, there could also be abuses because all of this is hard to prove, and therefore quite difficult to implement or should be given a sublegal act which precisely defines the implementation of this article. Article 27 is prohibited in indent 4 from growing, importing or exporting exclusively for the purposes of the manufacture of fur. Does this mean that all chinchilla breeders should stop producing, who pays compensation for it? We're in favour of a gradual reduction, down to total suspension, but we need to give one deadline with transitional provisions. Breed, hold, import or export if they fall into exotic animal species. What about the zoos? We are certainly witnessing today in the world that there are much more humane zoos than we are, although I must admit that the Zagreb Zoo has made great progress and a lot of efforts to make the life of animals in Zagreb's zoo significantly better. In London or San Diego, we have zoos that are such that the animals held in these zoos are absolutely, in the environments closest to their natural habitats. We stand for this and hope that we in Zagreb, and also in Croatia, will be able to build such zoos in the next 10 years that animals have adequate accommodation. Article 31(1) and (2) are contradictory. First, it is said that each animal should be introduced into the register, so that it is then said that the administrative authorities responsible for veterinary purposes can establish a list of animals for a society for which registration is required. In accordance with Article 32 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission is to take into account the information provided by the European Parliament and the Council by the European Parliament and by the Council on the implementation of this Regulation and by the European Parliament and the Council on the implementation of this Regulation. In Article 33, who and how can assess whether someone has space and time and financial resources to meet the standard of living, according to which criteria. In Article 34, what are the cages for birds and small mammals that are unproductive? And what does it mean to be too small a cage, according to which standards, and how do you spend it in life? Animal mating is prohibited in order to achieve certain external features that may be harmful to health. That article should be thrown out anyway, because the question of selection is not solved in this way. Article 44 to be deleted, given that the monitoring of the movements of infectious diseases is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, which, if necessary, adopts orders and other acts, and the issue of quarantine for animals is prescribed by the Regulation on quarantine for imported animals. Article 49 is also quite questionable. Using chemicals in agriculture. It's artificial fertilisers, pesticides and insecticides. Such a ban could also put an end to agricultural production. It's more important to determine the measure. In the framework of overall sustainable development, find a measure between the use of these funds and what we want to protect in the animal world. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Banning the breeding of wild animals would mean abolishing hunting tourism. What kind of economic conjecture would that have? Where would the game come from? Except for Article 51 of the game and intended for human consumption. What about some preservation of specific species? It's not fully defined, and it's a thing that must certainly be done with more attention. By Article 55, how do you catch those kinds of fish that only bite live bait? Article 57 seems to me to have gone a little astray in this law. I don't think there's any need to ban the export of whale products. At least not from Croatia. Article 60(2) of the Decision on the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in Article 58, 59 of this Act shall be adopted by the Ministry of Environment and Others, and by the Advisory Commission. One solution can only be made by one body, so the Ministry can carry out the administrative procedure, since it is a assumption that the commission does not have that authority. Article 60 states that it is necessary to attach animal origin and health documentation to the authorisation of the maintenance of the exhibition. Does this mean that the organizer, for example, should first collect all the necessary documentation, and only then could he ask for permission? It's not exactly that article. This Regulation shall enter The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning and Construction prescribes conditions for the maintenance of animal exhibitions and the veterinary office of the county issues a solution for their maintenance. Those two don't go together. Article 65 which are competent institutions which would have to be reported without delay by an animal found or lost. More precisely, this article should be defined, defined. Today there are shelters that are mainly organised by associations and such a solution is not right and it is not the right solution, the right criteria are not known so that we do not often say that they can be the subject of certain malversions. Article 66 should be deleted because it is not enforceable, it would mean that nine people from the commission oversee the hosting and accommodation of 20 shelters and veterinary and hygiene services in Croatia that if they are organised at the level of the county. Here we need to take a look at the number of people who should actually control it on the ground. Article 66 makes it difficult for the local community to provide accommodation for a wild animal but it can be tried at the level of the county or at the level of zoos. Article 99 of students and students who do not want to look at scenes of animal suckling should not be forced or punished for their objection to conscience. If it is to be judged by the text on the assessment of the situation under b) basic issues to be regulated by the Animal Wellbeing Act, the word "lively" is to be added. We of the CNS and PGS support this law with the above reserves and remarks that we are fully aware of the radical attitude that is painfully affecting the traditional and traditional behaviour of our ordinary man but the change will take place sooner or later and it is good to start with these processes because they are very, very long, difficult and require a lot of attention. Improving the quality of life of animals and minimalising the application of pain or preventing the application of pain through a regulatory mirror is once again our civilization's reach. And that's why I repeat, we accept this law from the PGS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22621	Thank you very much, ma'am. At 12.19, it was time to apply from ten minutes to the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Then it's Mrs. Danira Bilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22622	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Although I support the intensification of the Animal Welfare Act by my colleagues, Ivo Banca, who tried to make it more precise, more detailed and efficient to handle matters in the field of animal welfare, unfortunately I do not feel that he has achieved his goal. Why? Not only because it is too widespread, in some parts it is non-transparent, but because it has a whole series of unacceptable provisions, it also has a whole series of provisions that are very difficult to implement in practice and also some provisions actuate the meaning of other provisions in the proposed law itself. The team would also be difficult to implement because many provisions go into a whole series of applicable laws, such as the Veterinary Act, the Hunting Act, the Sea Fisheries Act, and others. For example, Article 47 prohibits killing or hunting wild animals except in three cases, where there is strong scientific evidence of the justification of hunting or killing wild animals, then in the control of natural habitats where other alternative control methods are not appropriate and when there is a direct danger to human life. Therefore, this article directly enters into the applicable Hunting Act or its hunting rules according to which there is a time for which hunting is prescribed for certain species and the time when hunting is allowed, of course, under certain conditions. However, although this proposal provides for a ban on the killing and hunting of wild animals in Article 47, Article 4(2) prohibits hunting for game at the time of hunting, hunting for females in the time of mating, childbirth and breast-feeding of cubs. So, according to that article, Article 4 when there is no hunting and if it is not a female in those circumstances, then it can be hunted and this previous hunt is prohibited... According to 47, it's out of the question except for these three things I said about exceptional cases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not the only illogicality I've seen in this bill's proposal. In fact, Article 51 states, "It is forbidden to trade wild animals and products from wild animals for commercial purposes unless these products are intended for human consumption." and further in Article 52, the breeding of wild animals is prohibited. So, 47th forbids hunting, 52nd prohibits breeding and 51st allows trade in wild animals and products from wild animals if they are for human consumption. The article 69 states "The breeding of animals for further sale is prohibited except in the case of domestic animals that have an economic purpose in accordance with the Law on livestock farming.". Therefore, for further sale or for commercial purposes it is permitted to raise domestic animals, it is also permitted to trade for commercial purposes of this other law to wild animals and products of wild animals if they are intended for human consumption and, as I have already said, the breeding of wild animals is prohibited and, of course, Article 47 is prohibited to hunt or kill wild animals, I just don't know how we will then come to these wild animals and products from wild animals which can therefore be used for commercial purposes. There is also no reason why it would be prohibited to raise wild animals when other countries also grow wild animals, and in the Law of Hunting Basic Leaderships it is the breeding of savages. Furthermore, why the ban on the breeding of wild animals when we have artificial breeding of a dozen species of feathered game, just as hairy savages as we have seen in the opinion of governments who, without that artificial breeding and its release into nature, would be threatened by survival in nature. Without such artificially grown game and its release into nature, its survival would be compromised and several species, according to experts without such help, would have long come into number below the living minimum. Furthermore, in addition to all the reasons mentioned in the Government opinion, also mentioned today in the Assembly why this bill is not acceptable, and that we received last week an appeal signed by 17 different animal protection associations that also suggest that we do not accept this bill in this form for reasons which we already know very well, and we heard it today from Mr. Banca so that it would not now explain why it but merely underline how it means and associations, a variety of different animal protection associations also in this form do not want to accept this bill. Although I personally like the high degree of ethics and compassion towards animals that are read from the whole of the law and that it is an extended concept of what animals are, i.e. that both reptiles and amphibians are now involved, and I find that the whole series of provisions are unacceptable and that such a comprehensive and important law governing the relationship of man and animal should be adopted in cooperation with representatives of all the interested structures of society and, on that basis, bring a coherent and transparent new, extended and complementary Animal Wellbeing Act, thus expanding with all the knowledge that has been formed in the period following its adoption. I also hope that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy will announce on the round table of May 15th this year, in cooperation with representatives of all, as I have already said, interested structures of society, a new proposal for the Animal Welfare Act as soon as possible, and that it will respect all the good things in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22623	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Representative Marko Shirac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22624	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The applicable animal law recognises them as beings who feel suffering and pain, and it is forbidden for no reason to kill them to suffer and inflict pain on them. This law contains provisions relating to the protection of the animal world as areas which, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, enjoy special protection. However, the Proposer of the Animal Welfare Act Prof. Dr. Ivo Banac, in the assessment of the situation on basic issues that need to be regulated by the bill, thinks quite differently. And it states. In the applicable animal law, they are treated as things and not as sensitive beings sensitive to pain. Well, the sadness, stress and physical support that leads to pain. There is almost no control over what happens to animals in industrial farming, with pets, therefore additional measures are more than necessary to change the existing situation. An assessment of such an animal protection situation in our country cannot be accepted by me. Neither does the bill's proposal, because it's based on the grades of what's been presented here. I must point out that the national programme for the accession of the European Union is envisaged during 2005 to bring the existing animal welfare law into line with European legislation. During the first months of 2004, our ministry organised a debate on the draft animal welfare law in collaboration with the Croatian Veterinary Society and the Veterinary Faculty. In this way, the initiative is familiar with both the professional and the rest of the public in the Republic of Croatia. Our ministry has called on interested parties to engage in this debate in order to make one draft of an amendment to the existing law during this year, which would include all solutions and knowledge through the past five years since the first adoption of the law. One of the associations bearing the name of animal friends delivered on the basis of this initiative and its proposal. And our esteemed colleague Dr. The bank in the same text delivered here to us in the high House a bill on animal welfare. It is certainly his right but it is also our right, or mine, not to agree with such a proposal because I do not consider this proposal professionally well prepared. He's overextended, he's for me and futuristic. It's written for other living conditions and for another society. It is therefore not life-threatening, and it would be difficult to get rid of in these circumstances in which we live in practice. The promoter practically prescribed the largest number of provisions of the applicable animal welfare law, with it being a little wider axis, of course, with solutions that will really need to be built in. But the question is whether in such a scale and with such solutions. In my opinion, some proposals have been incorporated into the bill completely unacceptable, such as Article 31 Who commits all animal owners to society to mark them with a microchip. Some proposals go into the economy in a way that bans some of us from the usual forms of animal management such as hunting, fishing, trade in wild animals, and others. I think we're all aware that the introduction of these bans would adversely affect an entire range of economies. And primarily on tourism for economic fishing, and our citizens would be deprived of a valuable source of food, which is now available to us. The bill also proposes amendments, i.e. such solutions, which would lead to changes to a whole series of other laws and should probably involve changes to the structure of the state administration. You'd have to change the law on veterinaryism, the Hunting Act, the Nature Protection Act. The sea fishing law, the freshwater fishing law and so on. In addition, the proposer proposes to set up new bodies to monitor law enforcement. These are the expert ethical committees, I don't think anyone should be convinced that for the work of such bodies to be osigular, funds should be provided in the state budget, and in addition, I have not seen in any European legislation the attacks of the bodies carry out expert supervision. They can only act advisoryly and on a completely different basis than those proposed to be governed by these laws. And in the end, I'd say next. Our country, in the process of joining the European Union, has a obligation to bring national legislation in line with European legislation. But not at the expense of their own interests and the protection of the animal world. An important law that regulates human and animal relations should not be amended by a bill that does not clearly and effectively regulate the area of animal welfare. In my opinion, this law should be rejected and it should not be let into another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22625	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Mato Squirt's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22626	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. By law of 1999, for the first time, animals are renowned as beings who feel suffering and pain. And it is forbidden to kill an animal for no reason and to inflict suffering or pain against its provisions. Mr Banca's proposal prescribes the applicable law in all its parts, and the news it brings is those that extend or supplement certain areas of the law to the knowledge that was formed in the period following its adoption. The Government also announced, at or from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry on the round table on 15 May, under the name Animal Well-being, the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Animal Well-being, which was foreseen for the beginning of 2005. The bill proposes provisions that are intruding, I think of Mr. Banca's proposal or is annulled in a whole series of provisions in several applicable legal regulations. The Veterinary Act, the Hunting Act, the Nature Protection Act. Sea and freshwater fishing laws. Some of the proposals that have been embedded are very much affecting the economy in a way that is completely prohibited by some forms of animal management, such as Hunting, fishing, breeding of wild animals, wild boars, etc. Unlike my fellow Caine, I am a hunter, and I am also a fisherman, and I am also involved in the farming of fishes, which, according to the proposal of Mr. Agent Banca, are also considered animals. So other than man, birds, reptiles, amphibians, fish and queenless. I'll just list a few articles that I don't think are right and that are contrary to each other. If it is said in Article 2(6) that the wild animal is the one who lives and is successfully reproduced in the wild and whose survival is not dependent on man, and in Article 46, Mr Banac proposes, meaning, Article 46, public institutions operating protected parts of nature, as well as... the rights to hunt, are obliged to enable wild animals to provide veterinary health care, the resolution of possible confound, emerging environmental disturbances in the habitat. So, both law and law, the article doesn't go. We have an example. in Article 10, the death of animals may be carried out when it is necessary to control the size of a population of a particular species in accordance with the hunting law. And as counterpart Bilic said, in Article 46, the 47th article says: killing and hunting of wild animals is prohibited unless there is strong scientific evidence in the justification of hunting, and here we say it is in accordance with the law on hunting. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And what I think is wrong, and also in the opinion of the Government, Article 54 is prohibited from fishing for mobile networks, meaning direct entry into the economy and Article 55 is prohibited from using live animals as bait in fishing. We fishermen know what it means to hunt predators, so both catfish and pike and without live baits would be very difficult. In addition, it is prescribed by the Law on freshwater fishing. So we already have a definition of what a live bait is. Or Article 70, which states that animal experiments can be carried out by legal persons established by this law on the basis of a decision on the authorisation of trials by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, with the prior opinion of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Advisory and Ethics Committee and for the purpose of teaching, means Article 70(4), teaching purposes in the studies of medicine, veterinary, pharmacies and biology. And then we have an article in 94 that says that it's forbidden to use animals for educational purposes that I just listed here. Or Article 99, prohibited intentional killing of animals, including for the purpose of insecure purposes, that's what my colleague Kočia said, so it's a missing word for living animals, and if it's a dead person, it means dissection just for the sake of training, I think it would be okay for veterinary students, because it's very difficult to explain, as several colleagues have said, that these students who are not involved in this will ultimately be performing animal surgery, and Article 46 says that abandoned, sick and injured animals will have to be provided with appropriate veterinary assistance. So if the animal was injured, and we have a man who finished his veterinary work without being dressed, I'm not going in now as much as I could wear the videos Mr. Banac said, but I think it would be a split veterinarian into two types, two kinds of diplomas, and I don't think that would be right. Due to all this, as well as the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I cannot support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22627	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are students in our assembly VII. Zagreb high school, so let's say hello, here. The motioner called for a word, Mr. Dr. President. [[Applause]] Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22628	Mr. Vice President, I'm not going to abuse the privilege of proposing, so this might be my only intervention, or a replica of a series of discussions, but there are a few things I'd really like to say. First of all, many of the objections mentioned in the discussion have been anated by my performance and have been explained, although I do not deny that there are a number of contradictions in this proposal, which I intend to fix for a second reading. Therefore, to ask for the debate to stand on this, as counterpart Shirac did, I think he's simply going after the dictation of the debate. But it doesn't matter. What I think is very important to understand is that a series of discussions comes from a fictional Croatia, some Arkady Croatia where there are some good old customs and that is completely outside our industrial world in which animals are regulated mostly in an industrial way. That's what we have to consider. I have described a whole series of procedures that have nothing to do with the state of breeding of domestic animals or the relationship to wild animals that may be typical of the 19th century and some of our novels that we all grew up with. We live in a different time. So, what my colleague Cain said. When it appeals to our good customs, it's actually one completely wrong picture of our situation. Besides, some of our customs aren't that good. And they have to change. I think it also comes from a picture of Croatia that was assigned to the poor, there are large differences between Zagreb and the province. And these differences really exist and they must, of course, disappear. But if the starting point of every discussion, including this, is that we must assume that such a relationship is long-term, then we will not get far, because various changes, not only in this case, but in the legislation in general, which brings us into the EU's bid, will have to be done. Therefore, he well understood that we would have to change many things and not at the expense of our own interests, but these changes will always be in favour of a completely different imagined community in which many of the roughness of our present state will simply not exist. Therefore, I agree with my colleague, Pupovac, that this is not about ecological totalism, but about a different understanding of the relationship between man and animal. And finally, just one clarification that was presented in my performance, but I think it's good to stress it again because some of the Animal Protection Associations, I say very problematic, have managed to create a false impression that all associations are against this proposal. It's just not true. The Animal Friends Foundation did not participate in this protest, the so-called "Friends of Animals", the so-called "Friends of Animals", the so-called "Friends of Animals". 17 associations. They made an important contribution to formulating this proposal. So I ask you nicely to make a distinction between those who really want to help protect all animals and those who are directed towards one or another species, and mainly have the most direct interests in maintaining the current state.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22629	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bishop Perman. She's gone. Ms. Representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go. She's gone. Does a representative of the government want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22630	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Indeed, behold, I have heard all the discussions today...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22631	Excuse me, Mr. Brstilo. Here, MP Kovacevic called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22632	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Brstilo is not the secretary of state, he's the assistant minister. That's why he can't even represent the government, talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22633	Then we'll... Then we'll lose your comment this time, Mr. Brstilo, so thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22634	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I didn't absolutely mean to abuse. I was just about to add that to my discussion, to say that it was wrong of some respected parliamentary deputies to title me State Secretary because I am indeed an assistant minister. But I was thinking maybe some or just answers questions because the other thing is, I mean, here's the discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22635	Thank you. Do you want to hear from the Proposer again?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22636	No thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22637	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. He'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-06-0.u22638	Proposal for a law on animal welfare. First reading. P.Z. No. 125. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on animal welfare proposed by Agent Ivo Banac is not adopted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. Please engage. The vote. Score. Please, colleagues and colleagues. I find that the conclusion was accepted by 73 for, 20 abstentions and 17 against. Ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. I kindly ask you to welcome today's senior guest, Mr Gunter Verheugen, Commissioner of the European Commission for Enlargement. Your Excellency, I warmly welcome you here in the Croatian Parliament to the highest representative and legislative body of the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause]] I am free to inform you that in the Croatian Assembly of great interest and special honor we have accepted your address to the representatives at this crucial moment, after the European Commission has adopted, under your personal leadership, a pre-accession strategy which we are confident will contribute to the process of joining the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. With your official visit, you have done a great honour to the Republic of Croatia and its citizens and sent a strong message of encouragement to this significant and no less sensitive period that the Republic of Croatia is about to come on the road to public membership in the European Union. The Republic of Croatia has taken a major step this year by gaining candidate status by showing a high degree of maturity and consistency in achieving this strategic goal of national interest. We are aware of, of course, that only by our own efforts and by the tenacity of the implementation of the reform process can we be recognised as a country capable of coping equally with tasks and challenges. Which brings itself belonging to the European family of rye and peoples. The Republic of Croatia is determined to achieve the planned goal of joining the European Union, both because of its own citizens in the first place and because of other countries in this part of Europe. It creates a unique space that rests on the same democratic values, and guarantees stability in both political and economic terms. The Croatian Parliament also plays a significant role in adapting European legislation to Croatia. The lion's part of the legislation that has been passed in adapting Croatia's legislation to European gains has been passed by consensus on the basis of political judgment and the will of all parliamentary parties. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Commissioners, Croatia will continue to carry on consistently and vigorously meeting all the political and other criteria in order to be ready to assume the obligations of membership in the European Union by 2007. Your Excellency, please address the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause]]
