ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10127	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. It's-- it's on the agenda. It's-- it's on the agenda. Proposal for a law on a national test centre for education, first reading of P.Z. No. 74 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Education, Science and Culture. You received the report at the session. Please Jelimir Janjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10128	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable Madam MPs, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. This is the first legislative proposal from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports as a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I must remind you at the beginning that in the last meeting of the Croatian Parliament at the 26th session when discussing the Law on the Institute of Education, which was held in December 2002, we reached one conclusion that the Croatian Parliament obliged the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose a law establishing an institution that would conduct an external evaluation of the educational system in the Republic of Croatia including the organisation and implementation of the state graduation. This would result in conditions as in many countries in our environment to improve the quality of education. France, England and Finland have a centuries-old tradition of conducting state exams. Great Britain, Scotland and Northern Ireland have more institutions that organise and conduct different types of exams within their education system. Spain, Italy, Germany, Ireland, Finland and Denmark have central national test centres, and the Netherlands is one of the world's strongest centres dealing with psychometry and educational measurements. In the United States, education tests are very popular, so such institutions have all federal states. In European transition countries, such centres have been established over the past ten years, and I think of the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Russia, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and Slovenia. We have no developed model of external evaluation of student achievements or evaluation of the success of educational and educational institutions. All we have is an internal evaluation of the educational achievements of students conducted by teachers who also teach students. The achievement of schools in the existing system is difficult to measure and comparable. This makes it difficult to introduce innovation into the teaching process, to create education policy and ultimately to improve the quality of education in our schools. Since our goal is to raise the quality of education in order for students to be ready to continue education, we now know that only 30% of all who enter the study and finish the study, and the average of the study is 7.7 years and we know that only 7% of the students complete the study within the deadline. Of course, we must prepare students better and better quality for the world of work, so it is necessary to introduce a system of external evaluation of student achievements and the success of educational institutions. This will enable us to closely monitor the effectiveness of the work of teachers and schools, achieve better insight into the suitability of school programmes and the quality of the entire education system. To teachers, directors, education policy makers, external evaluation will provide all the necessary information on the basis of which they will be able to plan to improve their work, but also systems as a whole. By establishing a national test centre for education, we will create institutional preconditions for establishing an external evaluation of education in the Republic of Croatia. The criteria for this evaluation will be uniform, allowing for the comparability of the achievement of all schools in the Republic of Croatia. Teachers will be motivated to improve the quality of teaching, a higher level of co-operation with students will be established with a view to achieving the best possible outcome. He will not, of course, be indifferent to the fact that the achievements of the disciples in his case are, for example, much weaker than in other schools in the environment or beyond. Students will be more focused on acquiring knowledge and developing the necessary skills, and less on comparing the ever-increasing assessment. So external evaluation enables us to assess the suitability of school programmes, to monitor the effectiveness of teacher and school work, to understand the quality of the entire education system, to obtain information from all education policy makers, to compare the achievements of schools to each other and to raise the quality of education, which is the most important goal, so better preparation for continuing education, but better preparation and for entering the world of work. We have imagined a national test centre in this section relating to the structure as a public institution which is the founder of the Republic of Croatia, and the rights and responsibilities of the founders are carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. A board of directors and six members shall be established. The Board of Directors will adopt the statutes. Four departments are foreseen: research and development, information and computer, press and distribution departments, data security services. Headed by the director, we predicted it would be a doctor of science, if he had 10 years of experience, and we would have one professional body, that's expert advice. Of course, the dynamics of the establishment of the National Test Centre are foreseen. After this reading in the next second reading, we hope it could be by the end of May, but I say it with caution. Within 60 days of the adoption of the law, the administrative council should be established and, then, in 30 days, the statutes shall be adopted, followed by the natural employment of 10 employees as provided for in this section, which shall speak of the means necessary for the implementation of this law and we shall count on the final establishment of the National Test Centre of Education in the autumn. So that would be said I'd say some kind of optimal deadline, if we could do it and achieve envy will be largely respected MPs and representatives of you. The necessary funds are provided in the state budget, but as you can see that only in the autumn will the National Education Examining Centre be established, all of the intended funds may not be employed because the funds provided for in the salary will you see that they are actually in a larger amount than it will take about three months to figure out how long it will take for the first employees to be employed. One part of the funding is, of course, intended for external associates, and this is an institution that will greatly count on experts of all profiles, i.e. external associates. One part of the funds is intended to edit the space. I can tell you right away that it is a space in Ilica 246 where there will also be an Institute of Education, so where will the School Office move from Badalić Street. I must also tell you that in the last meeting of the Croatian Parliament after the conclusion of the end of 2003 that this law was given in the parliamentary procedure, however that there was no time for this law to be discussed. We have repeated all this procedure in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so both on the section and on the Coordination of Social Activities and ultimately on the very Government of the Republic of Croatia which has identified the final proposal. I'm telling you this because I think it's an important step in our education system. We are aware of the fact that in the entire educational verticals we have a large number of students from preschool to higher education, a large number of employees, parents and all those who are in any way directed to the education system. We appreciate that it is almost half of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so we believe that this project must be realised responsibly because of its national interest and this is also an important novelty in our education. It would be good to really agree on a solution to bring this document forward if possible by consensus. I personally believe that these issues should be resolved in agreement with all parliamentary parties in the Croatian Parliament. That's why we're open to all the suggestions, all the suggestions you're going to make for the honourable MPs and the respected representatives to present for this speaker. We are primarily grateful to the members, all members of the Parliamentary Committee on Law, all members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture as a parent committee. Not only have they supported the bill unanimously, but also because they have made very useful suggestions that we will certainly include in the second reading of this law. I call upon you honourable MPs, and I hope a large number of you will participate in it. I have no doubt you'll be making a lot of quality suggestions and solutions. I hope that you will help us resolve some of the doubts in some of the solutions that there are, and everything you say will certainly be precious in the preparation of the final bill. I am convinced that you will personally accept this project as your project and thus contribute to improving the quality of education in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10129	Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Yeah. President of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Dear Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10130	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At its meeting on 20 April, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal of the Law on the National Test Centre for Education P.Z. No. 74th submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. In a debate in which the necessity and usefulness of setting up such a centre has been unanimously accepted, it is noted that, in addition to the knowledge catalogue, there must be a catalogue of competence contrary to other programmes, in line with other programmes in Europe. It is also proposed that the National Test Centre be associated with the Institute for the Promotion of Education as well as with the system for international recognition of qualifications. Furthermore, the law provides for the role of the Croatian Parliament, not just the Government, in confirming the statutes, the appointment of an administrative council and so on, and that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports commits itself to delivering implementing projects to the Committee in connection with the State Graduation. It has also been established that centres in other countries that exist have changed their attitude towards education, and that they have caused a real renaissance of values for which the educational and education system is more difficult for us. The national test centre should be an engine for other changes in education, as changes must begin with exact steps. In addition, the objectives of this law are in line with the objectives of the study, the state's graduation in Croatia, the proposal for a national approach. It was also asked by the ministry's representative to submit to the Committee a draft final draft bill about two weeks before it will formally refer it to another reading in order to further influence the solutions that will finally be proposed, which the minister also accepted. The members of the board unanimously reached a conclusion, which is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the proposal of the Law on the National Centre for Education P.Z. No. 74. And all proposals, the comments on the proposal will be addressed to the proposer who will draw up the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10131	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, respected representative Ivanka Roksandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10132	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the moment society learns that investment in education and science is a national priority, then we can say that it has a future. Investment in human capital is a priority of the current government. Due to the importance of education for national development, and the development of science, social technological change, all education systems are trying to improve and adapt time. All countries that are members of the European Union, as well as those that will become, are trying to level educational systems, as well as Croatia. There is no single school system in Europe. But what balances them are some common objectives and common principles of their construction, and performance features, all of which guarantee equal educational effects. The basic definition of the education development strategy is primarily based on the lifelong learning strategy. The concept of lifelong learning includes not only school education, school is not the only place of organised learning, but different forms of learning are being established, all due to rapid technological and social changes. In such a concept of education and attitude on learning and learning, knowledge is changed. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that in today’s system of education there are only values within the school by teachers, professional associates, who work there and students themselves, which certainly led to unequal criteria of evaluation, i.e. evaluations of knowledge up to the evaluation and methods and formats of teaching, as well as the organisation and quality of work at school. Sadly, students are learning more and more about grades, not about learning or learning. The method of enrolment in high school has led to the flood of excellent grades in recent years, as a number of points need to be achieved in both high school and college. We are witnessing unequal evaluation criteria despite the fact that there is a rule on the monitoring and evaluation of pupils in primary and secondary schools. The establishment of an institution such as the National Education Examining Centre, which will deal with an analysis of the evaluation of education, will certainly lead to a better quality of education, as the data collected will allow schools to compare, and the teacher will be motivated to work and to be able to compare. This is certainly a significant step in education reform. It is precisely because there are no exact indicators that make it difficult to introduce innovation into the teaching process. System management and education policy creation. The independent system of evaluation of the national system in the Republic of Croatia can help all, and above all, students and teachers to focus on the goals of education and try to meet the uniform criteria of different schools, and most importantly to stop inflation of the five. Certainly, one such institution encourages both responsibility and all those involved in education. And the state exam with unique tests and tasks for all will enable students and the most realistic result of estimating their knowledge. Thus, the test centre puts knowledge and skills at the heart of its activity. Such institutions are also independent throughout Europe, and within the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union, and we are taking this step. It should certainly be commended for the ministry's insistence that, within this short period of time, at the very beginning of the term of office, it begins specifically with the reform of education. Unfortunately, we have long been participants in the debate on education reform on what is happening in education, but apart from some cosmetic moves so far, nothing concrete has been done. The adoption of the law also means concreteising the start of the reform, and the start of the long-awaited state graduation. Finally, the HDZ Club will certainly support the proposal of the Law on the introduction of the National Test Centre of Education, because it is a system of education, investment in knowledge, and it should all be a driver of the overall development of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10133	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Libra, Honorable Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10134	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me therefore, on behalf of the Libre Club, refer briefly to the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the National Test Centre for Education. The Libre Club will support this Law in its first reading because its adoption is based on the conclusion of the December 2002 Parliament which obliged the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose a Law establishing an institution that would carry out an external evaluation of the education system in the Republic of Croatia, including the organisation and implementation of state graduation. I think it should be noted here that this bill is actually a law written by the former Ministry, they are identical and that the election did not bring to the Parliament's agenda what we heard, and our opinion that it should have been referred to the procedure in the first or second month of this year. Club Libre supports this Act because it also contains some parts of our project “New School” whose goals are to coincide with some secondary objectives of this Law, which are to create equal conditions for all students, better quality knowledge acquisition, foster child creativity, teaching programs adapted to the interests and proneness of children, full-time learning and so on. Right away our project “New School” envisions the evaluation of school work through independent institutions at national, national level. One of the conditions for achieving these objectives is safe and external objective monitoring, evaluation of the quality of schools and the functioning of our education system, which would also allow systematic analysis of the causes of success and failure of education. We do not currently have any objective picture of this system, and therefore we do not know which way to go to improve the quality of our education, and we all agree that something needs to be changed. We wander from one announced reform to another, and the situation actually remains the same. The only reliable data we can get from statistical research that is not at all favourable, so the figures tell us that in 1997, the primary school completed 52 thousand students. And that after four years, in 2001 it was the same generation, the high school had completed 48 thousand students, so we see less than four thousand students. So we have a large number of students who don't finish high school today. The data continues to tell us that in 2001 some 44 thousand students were enrolled, with only 13 thousand and 800 graduates. All this results from the fact that Croatia is at the very bottom of the European floor by the number of inhabitants with higher school and university. Croatia has only 150 thousand inhabitants with higher and 267 thousand with higher education. This is not the basis on which we can build our future, so it is vital that we train our education system. Of course, it is an important element of this Law and the introduction of state graduation, which would significantly speed up the internal transformation of the school system and permanently improve its quality, so one of the results of the introduction of the state graduation would be reduced disproportionately between enrolled and graduate students. I have already pointed out that Libra's project "Our new school" among other things foresees the establishment of such institutions, but in our opinion, and in the opinion of the Ministry itself, in which, as the reason given for this Law should be independent institutions, not institutions established by the state and which will carry out the evaluation and supervision of state schools. Article 11 provides that the President and members of the Governing Council shall appoint and resolve the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister. If, therefore, we want to get really objective information, we think it would be good to think about some other solutions so that the National Examining Centre would act as a fully independent institution that ensures top-notch expertise in preparing and conducting the exams. We are also of the opinion that effective supervision of the work of the proposed Centre should be ensured and we propose that the Centre report the results of its work on the relevant parliamentary committee. We also have an objection to the part of Article 4 which speaks of the issue of external valuation licences. It's not clear what kind of licenses are and who should be given to the Centre, so it should be worked out. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Club Libra, will support this Law in its first reading because it supports the establishment of such an institution and calls for this to be achieved as soon as possible but we stress that its establishment is only the first step and solves only part of the problem in the school system and that the issues of material, material and spatial conditions in which the students and teachers operate must also begin to address at the same time. Just to point out that with more than 90% of our school course takes place in two or three shifts and that if we want to introduce a school in one shift, as stated by the minister himself, we need to increase our investment in education. The question of the status of teachers themselves who continue to lag behind their colleagues in state services should also be resolved, even though they have the same expertise. Libra tried to reroute this year's budget to management, the project “New School” i.e. The introduction of one-way teaching and equalisation of teachers' salaries, but unfortunately our amendments were not accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10135	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10136	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, according to his own school experience, 29% of students show that often or very often avoids boring teaching, and almost every time possible, our high school students tend to avoid teaching and schooling. This large percentage of our high school students who mark and flee from school is an alarming data that calls for action because the school exists because of students although such avoidance behavior can be considered a normal adjustment often frustrating conditions that students at school are subject to. We've spent too much time discussing what and how to do in the open without doing anything. The position of the SDP was and remains that the change, that changes in education should be gradual, that they should be conceived as a set of constructive measures and small steps around which there is a national consensus. And in this sense, the SDP Club will support the adoption of this Act by a team more than the SDP has proposed in the last term, and the Croatian Parliament has also adopted a conclusion that obliges the Government to propose this law. This is what we have proposed from the SDP, deeply aware of the need to set up an evaluation system because it is exactly the system of evaluation and the quality of the evaluation of measures for the quality of the system. We considered it then, and today we believe that the introduction of a system of evaluation into education is a good step that can, and certainly also wants to encourage other changes in the system because it is precisely systematic implementation that will give us insight into the right state of affairs, define problems and offer the way to solve them. NO, I'll talk about it later. A few specific sentences about the Law itself. This is about one more technical law establishing one institution, determining the bodies of that institution and the tasks. The draft law has a number of technical and nomotechnical shortcomings that our deputies and deputies have already presented at the Committee meetings. They will also talk about this in their individual discussions, so I would not only owe it but also point out that, until the second reading, it is necessary to make significant interventions in the Law itself in this technical sense. It is a very important description of the activities of the future National Test Centre. In the SDP, we consider it important to note that it is necessary to establish that list of activities referred to in Article 4 and bring it into functional contact with the projected structure of the Centre in order not to have a form which will not know how to respond to the content and vice versa. In this respect, amendments to Articles 4 and 8 of the Law should be made until the second reading. Article 12 of the Law provides that the Director of the Future Centre may be appointed a person with a PhD in science and at least 10 years of working experience. We consider such a provision in the law unnecessary and we suggest that the final text prefers the concept of competence to meet some more or less justified formal criteria. Quite by the way. It is precisely the idea of introducing a quality evaluation system that needs to promote knowledge and competences, or competences contrary to meeting some formal requirements. The bill provides for the centre to report on the results of its work to the government and report to the public. Since it is important topics and results that we hope will have a major impact on the entire school system and its structure, as well as adapting the education system to the labour market, we in the SDP think it would be good if not necessary to include the Croatian Assembly in the whole process or at least our Education Committee in order to expand the base of interest for education problems and promote the importance of education and its quality. Mr. President, allow me a few words about the metrics and future activities of the center. In the SDP, we consider it necessary and important to define very clearly the concept and importance of external evaluation in education. External evaluation is a set of defined clear measures and procedures aimed at assessing and assessing the effectiveness of the educational process and objectively monitoring the outcome of education. External evaluation is carried out by an institution that is outside of direct educational work and is a section of the internal evaluation that teachers and students are primarily carrying out, i.e. schools themselves and evaluating their own success. And exactly the establishment of a national test centre we want to establish such an institution. I consider it necessary to point out that the most widely popular segment of the external evaluation is the national prom, an important element but only one element in the whole of the system and therefore it is necessary to develop other components of the external evaluation system. In this regard, we in the SDP expect that the Ministry of Education will present to the MPs, but also to the public a full project of development and the introduction of this system of external evaluation in order not to find ourselves within a month in a situation where we have a formed institution that has no clear vision of what we need to do with this more time to delay we do not have. It is also necessary to establish in the law the links and relations of the National Test Centre with the Institute for the Promotion of Schools in order to allow data obtained through the evaluation process to be used as an indicator of the necessary changes in the content of the school, i.e. curricula and programmes. It is also necessary to connect the test centre with the national "Enik Narik" office which is part of the European network of qualifications recognition systems and recognition of diplomas and certificates. Because we are functionally linking the external evaluation system to other segments of the education system, we will achieve the desired goal of implementing external evaluations to influence and encourage the introduction of innovations in system management and the creation of education policy. Without this integrated and complex system based on high professionalism, on high skills, but also on ethics, we will not achieve the desired goal of improving the quality as well as of directing students to the desired goals of education that are achieved through work and gambling, and we need to be aware of that when voting this law because the limit between the good performance of this project and the barren work is extremely thin, and the result of the poorly designed external evaluation system can have devastating influences, especially because it calls into question the purpose of the school. Therefore, it is necessary to be very careful in making final decisions, because some of the announcements we have read in public, for example, that public graduation will be introduced funds of two thousand questions per teaching class are potentially very dangerous, because it can easily happen that the purpose of schooling can then be learned to answer two thousand questions, which is then quite contrary to the imagined idea and should be aware of this decision. A few words about State's graduation. The state's graduation is written a lot in public, there's a lot of talk about it, and because of the closeness of the vision of simplicity, everyone feels competent to talk about it, but contrary to the popular belief that the state's graduation as some magic wand will solve all our problems, the truth is quite the opposite. With the expected positive effects, the introduction of state graduates will generate a number of problems and will cause major earthquakes in school, of course, in a positive context. Therefore, it is necessary to prepare well, gradually respecting the current situation in schools, respecting all the specialities in different parts of Croatia and respecting relevant scientific research. Because if and only if the project of national graduation will be based on relevant scientific projects with respect to the experience of the countries that have introduced the State Graduation and if we will view the process as both a process and as a result, the national graduation will ultimately be a good project for the benefit of students and schools, and not for students one trauma in the whole system. We in the SDP want to warn and call on the current educational authority to take good care of it. In this respect, it is particularly important to establish the standards of the entire system of state graduation. A few words about the Minister's announcement on the creation of a catalogue of knowledge. Knowledge catalogues can be an effective assistive tool of measurable indicators, but they cannot in any way and must not become a criterion of evaluation. On the side now that our legal system in education does not know the catalogue of knowledge at all but is a obligation of plans and programs, catalogues of knowledge can be a bad message if we want to promote competences and desirable levels of cognitive operations and acquired skills. That is why the State's graduation must be conceived so that during the entire schooling, not only in the final exam, it directs the learning from factography to solving the problem and from reproduction to creation. We also have a big job to do to adapt participants and users of the education system, because if only one generation of students is damaged because of the introduction of state graduation, it will be too much. It is also necessary to do much to develop a test instrumentation which, in the opinion of us from the SDP, must not be imposed from above by some council of all-knowing wise men but must be the result of the work of a new centre with students, with teachers, with schools. Such details about the state's graduation and the whole system are much more and should be taken into account and conducted by expert debate. Just one detail. The entire system of evaluation and establishment of the quality management system will be incomplete unless an internal evaluation system is established parallel to the external evaluation system. It's not an evaluation, it's been heard so far. I would like to point out that internal evaluation is not an evaluation, and it would be good if the Ministry of Education prepared this project as well as an evaluation. And final. The SDP club will support the adoption of this law in the first reading, noting that the law until the second reading needs technical and nomotechnical arrangements, as well as the preparation of complete quality projects for the introduction of a system of evaluations, and in particular state graduations. Only then will the proposed objectives of improving the quality of education and promoting a new system of work-based values and competences be achieved after the law is passed. And since I have time, if you'll allow me, Mr. President, one small anecdote. I watched a movie about a business man about ten years ago, an engineer who was working on bridges and major projects, and he went on a business trip to some eastern country, and then there was some kind of political pretubation, and they locked him up in prison, and he ran away from that prison, found himself at the airport, and he saw an opportunity at the airport to escape and go home. In one terribly chaotic situation with all the iconography, hostages, mobs and so, his only reasoning was I'm an engineer and I'm going to solve the problem and that's what we in the SDP want, to have students, to have students when they come out of primary school, not to know how to name the factography, but to feel competent to solve problems in life-important situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10137	Thank you very much, thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Luka Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10138	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. And we at the HSS right from the start have to say that we will support this bill. and with one part, and because we are here at the 26th session, it seems to me that the Croatian Parliament in the previous session in December decided to discuss the proposal for a Law on the Institute of Education and made a commitment to the Government to refer the draft law and to come up with a proposal for a Law on the National Examining Centre of Education. In our HSS, the external evaluation of educational achievements ensures more objective monitoring of educational outcomes than internal evaluations and evaluations that are common in our schools and which are conducted by the same teachers who teach students in one and the same. There's already been a lot of talk about students who are learning more and more about grades, about the flood of medals, and about the question of real knowledge. And not only is this the attitude that we support in the HSS, so the proposal that the former minister of education and sports, Mr. Vladimir Strugar, on behalf of the former Ministry of Education and Sports, will be prepared in July 2003. The proposal was also adopted by the Croatian government. And the proposal was also on that broader draft agenda of the Croatian Parliament ahead of the parliamentary elections. Unfortunately, he didn't get a chance to discuss it, so now we've got him on the bench. And we do not mind at all that today's Ministry of Science and Education and Sports has made almost the same proposal in an unaltered form of this government, and we in the Croatian Parliament appreciate that it is good that it is trying and wants to pass this law, because it is a prerequisite for the implementation of state graduation and international evaluation of achievements. It also says that the former ministry had a complete picture of changes in education and education. In the assessment of the situation, it is clear that no external evaluation models have been developed in Croatia. If there were no state-run central scientific institution responsible for carrying out external evaluation and harmonisation of Croatian and European standards. The establishment of the Centre can certainly be achieved. The law, according to us, will have positive effects on at least three areas. First of all to student activity, which means acquiring quality knowledge and developing abilities. On the effectiveness of schooling, i.e. taking responsibility for quality and finally to the functioning of the education system, above all in defining the new curricula and programme, which is the starting point for all other activities. The centre will primarily contribute to the gradual changes and harmonisation of the Croatian and European education models. Institutions dealing with external evaluations are an integral part of the educational system in many countries, as described in the bill, in some countries the state exam has a century-long tradition such as England, Finland and the like, and central national test centres exist in many other European countries. And it should be noted that almost all transition countries have such centres established in the last decade. In the HSS, we too can agree with the assessment that the establishment of a national system in the Republic of Croatia, which would ensure a valid, reliable and objective evaluation of the results of the education process, will be necessary to improve quality, education in Croatian schools. An independent system of evaluation based on high professionalism and ethics can undoubtedly help all subjects in the educational process. First of all, teachers should focus on the desired goals of education, try to achieve them by working and pawning. Finally, it is not worth recalling that, just as I said, the Croatian Parliament committed the Government of the Republic of Croatia to debate in December 2002 on the proposal of the Law on the Institute of Education of the Republic of Croatia to propose a Law establishing an institution that would carry out an external evaluation of the educational system including the organisation and implementation of the state graduation. And it is well noted that the rights to ensure that students are provided by means of national graduation as well as the attitude of state graduateship in other forms of the final exam must be regulated by a special law. The optimal dynamics provided for in the proposal for this law should be respected because there are also planned resources. And the Croatian Parliament certainly agrees we must be involved in confirming the statutes of the institution. For all these reasons, the HSS Club of course supports this proposal of the Law in its first reading and expects to pass laws as soon as possible with all the quality remarks resulting from this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10139	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS, a respected representative, vice president of the home Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10140	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a Law on the National Test Centre of Education is one in a series of steps to establish a state degree, some have already been done and many are still ahead of us, it is a good idea, a short and in the right direction-oriented law and the HNS Club and the PGS will support it. It's a project that's about a little over a year away from being commissioned by one of the Institute's Institute of Social Research, and it's the basis for these steps, one of which is exactly the bill that's before us. According to its model, this proposal sent to us in the Parliamentary procedure is most similar to the Slovenian model of this law, i.e. the Slovenian model of this element in the realisation of the project of state graduation. According to all that is available and what describes the functioning of this Slovenian model, it seems to be a good template, since it has been successfully implemented in Slovenia, i.e. it is successfully implemented. What's most significant about the whole concept of state graduation is the introduction of minimum standards for all schools. Everyone who worked at the university either at school or had children of that age knows that the fact that the grade speaks very little about the degree of knowledge and quantity of mastered material at school, that people with or young people with the same grades have very different levels of knowledge with which they come and that depending on where you go to school and which school the child goes to get out of that school regardless of the grades with very different knowledge. This, this model of state graduates allows these minimum standards to be introduced, to define these minimum standards and to monitor the application of these minimum standards in all schools, and therefore we will also propose to the ministry to consider the possibility of entering in Articles 4 or 6 some of the additions that would help in this regard. ABOUT WHAT contributes to the core experiences of other countries that have this model of state graduation, what contributes to such a form of knowledge evaluation is also raising the standard of objectivity in grading students. Something that at the beginning of the state graduations was debated a lot and became doubtful to what extent the state's matura would contribute to the objectivity of all the indicators that valued the application and state diplomas showed that objectivity in the evaluation process and satisfaction of participants in the objectivity process increased. Using also existing experience dsmatramo to be useful in introducing a period of experimental graduation, so try state graduates in some schools and check the way this model works. We also think that it would be useful to introduce a period of choice between traditional or traditional, this form of graduation that is known today and that we have had these new matures for years to be gradual, and so that we can compare and possibly improve this model of state graduation. A few questions. If a national test centre is introduced, it is a special institution, we think it is good that it is a special institution. It has a good structure, a question similar to that which occurred earlier but for other reasons whether the director must be Dr. Science. The problem with this is certainly members of the advice must be doctors of science. The equalist in this case set the condition for the equalist to be a doctor of science is probably the first function which the editor must have is a dbede good organizer to know how to run an institution well. The fact that we have so few doctors of science, that everyone or at universities is already working or in some major economic organizations. It puts us in danger that we will have a very small circle of people who will be able to choose the potential directors for a center like this. And that is very likely to be the result of the obvious circumstances of negative selection among the doctors of science. This should be considered that for these reasons it seems to me that it might narrow down the choice of potentially capable people who can orchestrate such a centre to lead. The members of the council must, of course, go to the doctors of science. But by introducing a center like this, we wonder what about the school office. What a function the school's office is. Is there a need for an education agency under these conditions? Should at least redefine the school's assignments. These are to avoid duplication of institutions and to accumulate red tape in education. Here I think it would be necessary to consider the elements of overlapping, and at all the function of that school office. BUT what I said at the beginning of this presentation on behalf of the HNS and PGS club how to contribute to the shift of the introduction of minimal standards equal to everyone, so some kind of uniform chance of quality education for all across the country. In Articles 4 or 6, we suggest that the ministry consider also the possibility to enter a formal position, which would prescribe the obligation of this centre to prepare a return of information based on the results of a held emature. In other words, people who are going to be taking the whole country's national prom will then become data on the school they come from. So the place and the school they come from. If the results of the tour show systematically that from a school or from some schools, systemically people, or graduates, achieve lower results at the state's graduation, it automatically indicates to the ministry that something is wrong with that school or that school is wrong. In other words, it is possible to establish, on the basis of the results of the State Graduation, that segment of secondary school institutions which are systematically or whose graduates achieve below average results. And these are institutions with which there is obviously something further to work with, osgiura other additional teachers, added programmes, which are therefore an indicator of the need to intervene on this element of raising the quality of education. This is what we consider in the HNS and PGSA club an extremely significant and important and potential advantage of state graduation, so we suggest that the ministry consider the possibility of formalising this in Articles 4 or 6 of this obligation of the National Test Centre. The model of state graduates directly fits and is directly the predecessor of the system of evaluation in higher education. And we believe that the ministry should continue to elaborate on this idea on what has already been prescribed in the law on science and higher education that we adopted last year in this assembly. A relating to the system of systematic system of evaluation of higher education. Which, of course, is almost the most important institutional part of adapting Croatia's higher education to European standards or realisation of the Bologna process whose Croatia is known as the signatories. The HNS and PGSA club also encourages the ministry and the ministry that it is also their obligation. That according to the existing law, this state graduation is an integral part of such a different approach to education. And especially approach to evaluation of education and that, together with this, one needs to finally tell and draw up a systematic model of higher education evaluation that is directly continuing on this national graduation. The HNSA and PGSA club therefore believes that this law is going in a good direction that we need the state's graduation, and we recommend that the ministry consider these remarks and install them in the draft law for a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10141	Thank you very much. The chairman of the Committee on Legislatives, Florian Boras, scheduled an extension of the session of the Committee on Legislatives today at 13:30 in Hall 233. Now on behalf of the HSP Club Mr. Representative Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10142	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The evaluation is a highly demanding and educational and morally extremely responsible job, not a bit easy. I will tell you this on two examples that look only seemingly banal, but that are repeated daily in schools and in the Croatian public. The other day, a colleague of Milanka Opačić, our distinguished parliamentary representative, was asked by "Free Dalmatia" to evaluate the scores from 1 to 5 me and Dr. Ivo Sanader and she gave us two. After that, I was asked as an experienced professor, I've had a professor's experience for over 30 years, to evaluate her and I've given her a +4 from the deepest professional and ethical beliefs. If you take a survey on the Internet today on the reviews of the Government of Ivo Sanader, on a very large sample of as many as 15300 amateur appraisers, on the day of the positive response and the positive opinion of the European Commission, you would expect the average rating to be at least -4, 4 or so on about these sizes. The evaluations are as follows: 39% gave the grader insufficient, 24% sufficient, 16% good, 9% very good, 12% excellent, the average is 1.83. A skinny two. As you can see, grading isn't a banal thing. This law only has a good intention. What he lacks I will now tell you at the level of a superficial sociolinguistic analysis that determines the nature of the writers of this law and all the risks that may arise in its conduct. Namely, if you read the law carefully, you will see there a huge discrepancy between what they are saying so far as the parliamentary representative and the representatives on behalf of their clubs and what other debaters will say and what the law says. Namely: a student, a student, a teacher, a teacher, a professor, does not exist in the bill; none of these words exist in the bill. Thus, they wrote as usual public officials who have two important prejudices. The first is a classical normative optimistic prejudice that the creation of law institutions can change life practice. I am a professor at the Faculty of Medicine, I teach two small and non-essential subjects for doctors, and over the years I became an opportunist appraiser because the criteria of evaluation in the last 30 years are getting lighter and lighter especially in postgraduate, which will be easy for colleagues who are experienced teachers to agree with me. So if they get from anatomy, pathaphysiology, physiology, internal, whatever you want, different small and large surgery, gynecology, more fives and fours, it would be unserious for me to give them as many threes, twos. I give, first of all, I give, I have averaged there in the early '80s, the average of about 3.5, and today my average is 5 in postgraduate studies and I rarely give and that's a general trend. Do not expect that the state and institutions can substitute what is precious, which is the professional responsibility of teachers, teachers who do extremely difficult work and there is enormous pressure from parents, student communities, general social anxiety on these difficult and painful jobs performed by teachers and teachers, and in this sense nothing can substitute professional autonomy and professional responsibility of the interrogators. The best professors, and in this House and in the Croatian government, you have brilliant professors and more or less good politicians. Here I was estimating one of his colleagues, my colleague Andri Hebrang. Brilliant doctor, fantastic professor, excellent science. What kind of politician I'll be estimating maybe after two years. So what would I suggest about this? A few would have quite concrete suggestions. The first is a curse with Croatian adjectives. All major problems in Croatia are related to adjectives because Croatians can be precisely understood in foreign languages, especially in English, which makes a difference, the important difference between Croatian and Croatian terms, so every American will easily understand the difference between Croatia and Croat in Croatia only exists in Croatia. In recent times, too much has been used in an incorrect sense national, so it's all national. When I hear the word national, I fear national security, national strategies, etc. Nationalally suppressed by the use of two concepts, an old concept that dominated the earth and that applied to the whole area and was in a political and ideological sense value neutral, which should be revived and the other should be Croatian. So if I were asked in the second reading, I would suggest a change in the name of that law, that the name should show what it's about. So if you read that law, you don't understand what it's about. This man who wrote the law, he must have written laws on self-government communities, free exchange of work. You have ideas about users of services, etc. It's all normal, it's not at all critical of what I'm saying. We all lived in that age, we all socialized and educated, and in our subconscious, this termology is common and the trouble with terms is that you have to fight them every day in silence and not in public and you have to think them criticalally. I would call it, therefore, the law on Croatian, the law on the Croatian Institute for the Valuation of Education and State Graduation. That would express what we're going to possibly regulate with that law. There's plenty of room to build that law. I'll only mention a few. The first danger that arises is the Americanisation of the Croatian educational process. We must always be aware of one fact, that Croatian health care at the time of communism was the best social subsystem. I did an economical one analysis, which I doctored, the effectiveness of Croatian healthcare which showed that Croatian health care was only 75% less effective than European average healthcare. Another good Croatian gain is an educational system, and if our pupils of primary schools, secondary schools are tested, those who want to enroll European or American universities are generally superior to their peers. So we have to fight to keep this great level of good general education that we owe each of us to teachers and teachers, perhaps the strictest and most perverse among them, who today would very often be accused of violence against children by the Ombudsman for children, are they mean... So in this sense, I must say that I personally have the greatest sympathy for the minister of this great ministry, he is, among other things, my student and my wife's student. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] However, any change should be tested multiplely, we must preserve the system of traditional evaluation from one to five, we must fight to preserve the school clock of 45 minutes, because it is a biologically imposed pace, every experienced lecturer, here is General Cosic or anyone who knows that in his brain is 45 minutes, who teaches should not even look at the clock, so it will happen. Large reformist procedures are not desirable. A few specific questions. They're already being talked about. For example, in article 9, when it comes to experience, I would always say at least 10 years of teaching or teaching experience. In order for it not to happen that some of the young men who deal with certain civil affairs come to such positions, they will not understand what this is about. Already, counterpart Pusic spoke little of those prominent scientists and experts who will be in need, the state administration cannot pay them well enough. In Article 12, when it comes to management skills, we have already accepted the concept of leadership skills, it should be specified what it means. The same article when talking about the principal also discusses 10 years of work experience, at least 5 of which I would book for teacher and teacher. As far as Article 13 is concerned, I was already talking about article 15, which is about users of services, not institutions, students, teachers, etc. In Article 16, when it comes to intellectual rights, we recently ratified an agreement with the United States on intellectual property rights, which is what we should call it. and finally in what I see great, as I would say, the general well-being of such an institution and the general intentions of legislation. All those who have read the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, I hope that most in this assembly have not only read it, but studied it well. They know the area is going to be so-called. Turn the Western Balkans into an area of free movement of human labour, ideas, etc. This means that very soon Croatia is transformed into an open market, for example, medical care, sisterhood, teaching, whatever you want in the ministry, and I see one of the forms of checking the knowledge of these potential candidates in the Croatian labour market. All in all, the HSP Club will support the intensity and in this period until the second reading some of these hints will turn into something more concrete. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10143	I'd like to thank Mr. Agent Leticia. And now on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and DC, Mr. Representative Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10144	Mr. Chairman, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. When we start reading this small law, as usual, when we read the laws, we focus on the articles themselves, I think that the key sentence of this bill is contained in the assessment of the situation, in the fourth paragraph, where it is said that with such evaluation procedures, it will monitor how much the educational system satisfies its fundamental purpose, i.e.. how much the desired outcomes of the process of education are realized. The fundamental issue, as well as the fundamental lack of the Croatian educational system from kindergarten to postgraduate studies, is precisely what we unfortunately do today as in the Croatian Education System and in general in Croatian society do not know and have not clearly defined what is the fundamental purpose of education and education. Unlike other countries where such documents are brought right into the parliamentary representative's legislative body and in which documents are clearly pointed out what is expected of the national education system, we today have an educational system which, as far as the philosophy of that system is concerned, has been inherited from more socialist self-management, cosmetically we have changed it over the past 14 years, some corriculum, some titles of the subject itself, some methodology of work, however, in a fundamental sense we have not reorganised our educational education system until today. And if you ask the average teacher and you ask here the scientists we propose at the test center, which is the basic task of the Croatian educational education attitude, believe that you will get different answers, or to get unblemished answers. Is the basic task of the Croatian Educational System to be competent? Is it a basic task to have as much knowledge as possible? Is it a fundamental task to have as many general cultures as possible? Is it a fundamental task to become more involved in the world of work, to succeed in the labour market, or to continue schooling according to verticals? Is it a basic task for a child to be satisfied at school? Is the basic task of an educational system to raise a democratic citizen? We, unfortunately, in no document, have in any document, starting with the document of the Government, which is a document of the executive body, to say the document of the Croatian Parliament anywhere, and have never determined what is the fundamental purpose of the Croatian Educational System. The American system does not need this, because they have this fundamental purpose set out by John Dewex and his book "Training Democracy" in which it is very clear that the basic function of the entire system is negatively stated that the educational function of the entire system is nothing more than that of the student to acquire qualifications which will be able to be employed on the labour market. And it's a legitimate philosophical and pedagogical concept that lasts almost a century as such. Some other systems, for example, Germany, in line with the European tradition of education, will more highlight the intrinsic motivation, the intriguing satisfaction of students, and more will talk about the function of the educational system in building the student as emotionally, selectively, congitively, uniquely, and how much more possible it will be for them to, therefore, become aware of other emotional capacities. I really don't know how we're going to determine this by evaluation procedures, does the system fulfill purpose, when we haven't determined purpose? And all the problems that arise by passing this law, and that will bring you forth in the very practical implementation of this law, because I repeat once again... Legislative optimism, I agree with fellow Flight One, but that reality most often resists our legislative intensities and that it is difficult by law, to call it "rape" reality, the fundamental difficulties will actually arise when we will have to value something that we are not sure in advance of what is the purpose and what is the ultimate purpose. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Aristotle also said that everything in the world determines the body or the ultimate purpose. What is the ultimate purpose of the educational system? If we don't know that, we won't even know how to evaluate that system. And although, if I said so right away, it wouldn't be... And doubtful, we support the adoption of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We believe that this Law should or should have been proposed in a package with a basic declaration of the Croatian educational education system, as the European Union has done in the document... according to the society that enters, which is today a basic document, according to the society that enters, the fundamental document of the European Union on the future of education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we should have done. Just because we don't know the ultimate intention and I'm afraid this external evolution will actually come down to the testo mania and the over-examination. So accordingly, I think that the title of the Law is also not affected, because if we want to further evolve the education system then the law should not or should not be called the Law on the National Examining Centre of Education but should be called the Law on the Valuation of Education, or the Law on the Centre for the Valuation of Education. Because the exam, the test evaluation is just one of the possible evaluations of education, the test is ultimately not, it does not exhaust the entire area and all techniques and all methods that can today value knowledge. Therefore, it would be that, whether it will be called Croatian, as Slaven said or not, it is already less important, I don't think it matters to be called Croatian, but I think it should be called, that it should be called a center for the evaluation of education. In order to avoid this testomania and to avoid the fact that now the tests that will be bazaarized and standardised from one place, from one center actually exhausting or subsuming all that force of other techniques and methods that unfortunately are not used in Croatian schools, not because teachers do not know it, our teachers are, in my opinion, together with children, the best part of Croatian schooling, but because they have neither time nor time enough measured techniques to apply these methods. And by this, ladies and gentlemen, I want to say it not as a bad prophet, we expose ourselves to the executioner that we are all reduced to the testomania and to the barbarian examination through the texts at the end of the year which I think is bad and that I think the ultimate purpose of this Law will miss, which is not to value knowledge but to just value students' abilities and skills. In particular, that's what we call it, they look at the fact that we have to be, that we have to be aware in advance, that no evaluation, no evaluation is devoid of subjective evaluations. Let's not fool ourselves, there's no such technique that will save us from our subjective judgments, even our subjective prejudices, or if you want a very prejudice. The research carried out seems to me a few years ago when children's literary papers were first given to one teacher and then sent to another part of Croatia that the other teacher of the same literary papers evaluated and thus changed each other's literature, this research by the ladies and gentlemen to remind you that what one teacher rated with a grade of 2 or enough, the other teacher considered it very good or even excellent. Someone will say that, so it's aesthetic judgments, not just aesthetic judgments, I assure you that other children's offices would be evaluated in different ways. Which, under the impression of perhaps familiarity, under the impression of their subjective judgments, is under the impression of what the teacher otherwise expects of the students. I'll visit you a year ago, one of our literary critics took the papers, it seems to me that Bjelovar high school students who were rated with grade 1 and said they were papers that he would have rated with a straight heel and that these papers could stand in any choice of contemporary Croatian literature and the teacher rated them with a score of 1. Therefore, we are talking about an area that is difficult to normatively predict, which is difficult to normatively determine in the area where subjective judgments play a decisive role. And I'm afraid that narrowing it down to, just the test on the testomania means improving the meaning of the entire law. What is certainly good and needs to be welcomed is the first effort to finally approach the evaluation and evaluation of the work of the entire school. Unfortunately, we have not yet valued school as an educational constitutional, individual school. And so far we have lived in a fake Uramilian, all of them equal, all of us teachers and all the schools, no matter what the results of each school were. That's what needs to be done. We must understand that certain schools are better educated and raised by children, that it is possible to measure and that such schools should then and appropriately, should be properly evaluated, so that if material rights should also be treated specifically in relation to those who do not achieve such results. What we also welcome is the fact that the adoption of this Law could finally in Croatia instigate something that we have not encouraged so far, primarily competence and competence, competence and competence are key words in education itself. If we don't have a competent student and a competent child at the end of school and if children don't feel each other's school as a place of competence, then if teachers feel their job as a competitive job, so, as a competitive job, not in the sense that we all reduce it to a mere competition between students, teachers and schools, but to encourage students to understand that acquiring knowledge is actually the first thing competence and then from another matter of competence, or competition between each other, which is a very legitimate principle today in education policies, I don't think it's possible to expect a greater motivation of students. Motivation only occurs when a child realizes that he is actually competing with his peer not only in the acquisition of knowledge but also in the acquisition of the skills and skills he will need for life. So let's try as much as possible, Secretary of State, just by passing this law to encourage competence. We ladies and gentlemen have no competence at the university level where it is expected. You don't have today, you've got a few attempts, here's a National weekly that maybe the most excellent students get some scholarships, you don't have a chance to each other competently determine students' achievements. Why, for example, a student who studies, I will tell my field of philosophy in Zagreb, someone who studies in Rijeka or Zadar, why, for example, their educated achievement could not be comparatively and comparatively followed. Unfortunately, there is no such thing today. As there is no and there is Ms Pusic right, still competence and... evaluation in the area of higher education without which I believe the quality of higher education, the quality of studies is completely unimaginable. Why someone if an estimate that, for example, Mr. Banac is a better professor of history than someone else at another university couldn't choose him, or if someone thought I was a better professor or a worse philosophy professor, they couldn't choose me and listen to me. Which is why there is no competence that would practically allow the basic autonomy of the academic community that any student can choose a teacher according to what he expects. We therefore support the adoption of this Law. We believe that it should be called the Centre for the Evaluation of Education and we think that this external, external evaluation, external evaluation will be carried out in order not to bring everything down to a mere testomony and that these two basic principles will therefore be able to implement the competence of both teachers and students and competences or mutual competition between students and teachers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10145	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that at 10 and 51 it is time to apply to the Rules of Procedure for the debate of 10 minutes, and now I invite you to welcome the participants and staff of the “Blado Zadar” Command School. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Ante Markov. [[Applause]] But you put the HSS Club here. What about the other part? Okay. Okay. Excuse me, Mr. Markov. We're moving on to an individual debate. Uh, Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10146	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm going to discuss this National, therefore to the National Education Examining Centre, start with my finding that I am not satisfied with all what has been done in the past years in the reform of primary and secondary education because I think we've spent too much time on stories about whether the primary school will last 6, 8 or 10 years. It doesn't really matter to me. What matters, therefore, is not form but content, it is important that our children learn, learn, and receive what kind of educated children we will receive after we leave high school. And the basics, therefore, and the middle. What I think is a devastating picture of today's educational situation in the Republic of Croatia is data from the State Statistics Institute that says that 18% in Croatia are those who have not finished primary school, that 40% of those who have completed primary school and that there are 7% of those who have completed high school education. In my view, for such a small country as Croatia with a small population education, the degree of education of the population is something that is very important and crucial. That this is what the National Competitiveness Council is saying, for example, for these 55 measures, if you have seen them, I think almost 1/3 or even more of their measures have dedicated precisely to the education system and the need for education to change and adapt to the needs of the economy. We have problems today that we have a very large number of unemployed at the Institute but on the other hand we do not have those personnel that are needed by the Croatian economy. So here and in that part, something should change. So I think that our goal must primarily be to eradicate this illiteracy, and on the other hand to change the education system so that we get educated children who will know how to use their knowledge. Today we have a rush of medals, but the entrance exam, for example, has been changed at the Faculty of Philosophy, has shown that these grades have virtually nothing to do with the real knowledge that our children have as a result potential students, so this has been shown in such a single admission exam. I have already said here that it seems to me that it is necessary to change the way and content of what children learn, the way they learn, and I think that it is necessary to encourage what experts call development education, which means that children need to take less and less care to learn the facts, some information that they may no longer need in their further education system, and they will not need in their daily life, and that they are learning much more about how to get the necessary information and how to use that information. Indeed today, with the progress of the Internet and all possible ways of reaching out to some information, not all information needs to be put in the head as well. The children are just getting tired of it, and I think that's exactly why, what my colleague Lugaric was saying, a very large number of children are running away from school, running away from school, and those who go to school are reluctant to go to school. I think that the schools are really there because of children, not because the teachers of the ex department come, every day their 45 minutes in 4 or 5 school hours do work in such a way as to tell the children certain facts and that in a few weeks or months they ask that the children crack up and the facts reproduce to them again and as possible, this one, more precisely as the teachers first told them. It's completely wrong, of course, that that's how we create frustrated and dissatisfied children. I think they're dissatisfied with this and a part of the professors that could be more creative in raising and teaching children than in this way that we have today, however, we need to change some things. I think that, according to my information at the Institute of Social Research, experts have made a new “curriculum” so new content of what children should learn and I hope that you will look at it somewhere and that you will allow us to change both the content and the way of everything that our children in schools are learning. That's how I think you're going to help teachers who are creative so that some programs don't slow them down in their creativity. Children absolutely need to be taught in schools for teamwork, for a co-operation relationship that is very important for the economy. I think they need to be taught respect for diversity and I think they need to be educated about peaceful conflict resolution. I think it's also one of the basics that should be in the education system. I've talked a lot about sex stereotype textbooks here over the last year. I was talking about how it's important to get out of school textbooks because that's how we send a completely wrong picture of children about, therefore, division of jobs and division of roles by gender. I'm going to say something here today about what makes me think that here's the wrong approach for education for children when it comes to our country. There's been an analysis of it. Namely, in our country's school textbooks, our country is depicted mostly as a poor, gruesome, bloody, enslaved, oppressed, unhappy. Trust me, after such child education, we can expect children to look elsewhere for their place of life when they finish school. In other European countries, they are happy, happy, smiling, sunlit. So completely one other representation of our own country than what we have today in our textbooks. Yes, of course children need to know all the facts, all the historical aspects that our country has gone through, but I think that the approach in one part should be completely different, so that one complete picture which in this analysis proved to be, as I said here, should be a completely different picture because it really is not Croatia as our textbooks show. She's completely different. ... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10147	I'm asking for some peace in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10148	Mrs. Petricevic, please. I think it's this law today, I'm going to give it the support of the SDP Club. I think he's just one and the first step in everything we need to do. I absolutely support all those who have talked here before me about the importance of introducing self-valuation mechanisms and external evaluations of schools precisely because they can get a first good picture of what we have today in the care system, in which we are in a phase of each school, in which way we are working, and then you can see where we have some mistakes where we are determined to be deficient in the work of a particular school and, of course, that in that way, we may be able to interpret the functioning of certain schools. State prom here some before me should not think that it is the main solution for everything, it is just one of the mechanisms I think good because in all the countries in our environment it has proved that introducing a state graduate is something that gave a good assessment of the real knowledge of students although of course there is not one tool of that kind that can absolutely well assess the education and knowledge of a certain individual. I'd like to say here that one research has been done because it's very important, therefore, that the state's graduation be brought in to support it by those who will also conduct it who will therefore do all the work to the state's graduation. And I'd like to say that research was conducted in 90 high schools where, for example, It's 63% in 90% of school collectives consider national prom desirable, and 87.8% of teaching students tend to the idea of state graduation. They're prone to state prom, and because they know that a state prom can only function so much if a girl's reform is carried out, and that's something I've just said before, that's what a lot of teachers would like to see some changes happen. As a result, one part estimates that the introduction of a state graduation would necessarily lead to such a girlly reform. So here I think this is just the first step a lot more needs to be done. And I hope, Mr. Secretary of State, that you will use all that energy that has been invested so far by experts, primarily the people of the social research institute. And others who have therefore worked on many projects of many analysis, research that is here somewhere finished. And I hope that after this, you will take some other steps to really gradually start preparing and eventually I don't know by some estimates in 2006 or 2008 maybe even introduce a national graduation, but before that, we will change everything that really relates to the content and way of education of our students. To send children to school as happy children and happy children who like to go to school, not children who run away from that school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10149	I thank Mrs. Opacic. The correcting of the incorrect allegations was reported by representative Babić Petricevic, please be my guest, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10150	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to quote but I have not memorized all the attributes described by my colleague Opacic in the textbooks as described by Croatia. This country is described in textbooks as an unhappy poor and so on, the textbooks of the Croatian state which is both primary and secondary school. Croatia was described as it was for the first 50 years. What is it like in the first 10 years of the creation of the Croatian state, and in the future what will be written by Croatian historians, Croatian people, Croatian educational workers, about what kind of condition it is. The way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10151	Mrs. Petricevic, the correction he's alleging.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10152	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10153	Mrs. Petricevic, it was not a correction to an incorrect quote as you know it. Mrs. Opacic for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10154	Well, the injury to Article 109 is because Mr. District can't correct the expert analysis I've been doing here. So that's not my opinion it's an expert analysis.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10155	Ms. Babić Petricevic for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10156	Madam Chairman, you have injured the Rules of Procedure. The lady referred to Article 109. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament not 109, but 209. So if he is already speaking and the Rules of Procedure is called, then he must know exactly what the article is. And I brought out what.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10157	Mrs. Petricevic, you have injured the Rules of Procedure because you have not corrected the incorrect allegations and let's not continue now. And this way you abuse the institutions of parliament because it's just making a mess and it's not commercially allowed to be used. Next up is Ms. Nevenka Majdenic, please welcome Mrs. Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10158	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament, state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. In any case, I support the proposal for a law on the National Inspired Centre because it will prevent the subjectivity of sympathy and affection that inevitably consents to internal internal assessment of students' skills and skills. It is inevitable that during schooling, special human relationships are created between teachers and students that may have an impact on the objectivity of estimating the knowledge or evaluation of students in the exam. Such situations would be avoided by the external evaluation of educational achievements carried out by an independent external institution, since then the interviewer and the student were formally and in particular would not know each other personally. On the other hand, I think that would have had a significant impact on the teacher's work. Encouraging their intelligence and improving their teaching methods. Namely, the national external evaluation system would allow for the improvement of the quality of the work of individual schools throughout the country, as well as teachers, because students' results are in external evaluation and an impact on the effectiveness of the work of the same teachers. Exclusive indicators, students' results would allow the creation of an education policy management system and the introduction of quality innovations. The proposed law provides for some important provisions to prescribe the status of a centre adopted by the Governing Council with the consent of the Government. Article 4 of the Law provides for the tasks carried out by the Centre and provides that the activities of the Centre will be determined more closely by the Statute. In particular, I would like the Centre to play an advisory role with the above-mentioned tasks, i.e. that schools may report to the Help Centre for cooperation with the aim of improving the education system. I also believe that it is particularly important to ensure the secrecy of flaring materials because without it, the implementation of external evaluation would not have the desired goal. The staff of the centre should be subject to correct business performance, with strict sanctions for non-compliance with the basic tasks of external supervision. If these elements were institutionally precisely regulated in the centre, I believe that this law would receive the desired effects of improving the quality of education, and I support its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10159	Thank you, Mrs. Majdanic. The next is Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević Marivnović and Mrs Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10160	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It is indeed to welcome this proposal for a law on the national test centre. What the Government is proposing after this and the obligation, given that it is the government that has been obliged by the Parliament to make such a proposal for a law on the national test centre of education, which will also be established by the State's graduation. He's almost me thinking identical to that text proposed by the previous government but that doesn't mean that you should catch up with a number of criticisms that come about the very normative and nomotechnical arrangements of this law, perhaps the general should say that he should really be immediately at the beginning to say that he is belligerent. DESCRIPTION in this normative work needs to be done well, for in practice it will cause a whole series of problems, and it is not necessary. So what I really meant to say in this regard was said and united in the debate which was quite extensive on the very Committee on Legislatives. Here I might just point out that it is very important here to define and protect the official secret precisely for the sake of ethics and ultimately for the objectivity of verifying what this entire institution is serving. So it's not enough by statute, because since such things are regulated by law, and especially because of the sensitivity of matter it's precisely necessary to do so by this law, but still... I think it's completely irresponsible of us Parliamentarians whether they come from the order of opposition or ruling. [[You don't understand.]] When any law is passed and this is the case and this is the occasion when it is spoken, and it is often one dogmatic that may think that citizens like it, when it says the law won't solve anything. I'm really saying that it's about not taking responsibility for the law to be as good as possible, not seeing the situation whether it's going to fix some other or some sublegal acts, and in that direction, take over your part of the responsibility here when it's taken over so regularly and we're taking over everyone every month and pay. So I think we should always stop once and for all that the law will not be settled. Some law may be unnecessary and then, in that sense, debate, but it is our duty for all of us to make this law and any law better and as high as possible. What I particularly wanted to point out is that the safe passage of this law of this internal, this external value of knowledge, and if it is well set up, will eventually trigger this training mechanism within the schools themselves. That is why it is very important that this test centre is not only focused on, but here we hear more often and already in the media with a catalogue of knowledge. A catalogue of knowledge is a lexicon where students learn from their minds, perhaps already scared since first grade high school, knowing that they are waiting for them at the end of graduation and that their entire schooling is focused only on such factographic knowledge collection without actually learning what school serves. The school should primarily serve democracy because we are learning to live in a democratic society with as much democracy as possible. And I just think there's already a discrepancy here and still our structure, a centuries-old school structure that despite some modernisms, here's even been criticised that our school is being overly Americanized, but it's still based on that authoritative system. Therefore, it is hardly possible in such a way that all the tasks that were set out in 1999 in our national education programme that is talking about human rights education, about raising for democracy, about a democratic civil state can be achieved. It would therefore be necessary to establish, regardless of what is thought to be taught and studied through certain subjects, a special subject of learning for human rights, starting with a variety of forms and appropriate children's age since kindergartens, that we do not speak in elementary and later high school when it is a little and late for such education, rather say for a re-creation if the students have not met with it. That is exactly what education for sustainable development should include for peace and non-violent conflict resolution. So it's something that could be studied through this subject, not by explaining that it is taught through ethics, through economy, through politics, philosophy, sociology, and already what subjects have. Let us only remember what and what problems teachers have encountered, but also the students who have opted for the subject of ethics. The subject, both teachers and students, were recently unscrupulous, considered simply a trojan horse of national or religious minorities, atheists, all in all of the bad Croats. I believe those times are behind us after all. So they also try to modernise schools that go after them to simply give in to this one general trend, thinking that in such a way the school is democratisation, when they simply give an excellent assessment, which is also a very big problem, and therefore once again the necessity of such an institution is too much needed. So just when you approach students in such a way as to raise the general public, I say that in that sense it is a democratisation, when you say you are all talented then we simply tell them none of you are talented. When still in our system and in society that we don't talk about schools themselves because these are the most common concepts used there, when intelligence is just one suspicious or some... word, then industriousness it's in school simple nerdy, ambition is disease, truthfulness these are some kind of mutations, courage is almost madness, and honesty is nothing but imagination. So when we create, simply and when students understand these basic values, then it is illusory to expect, and often convinced in the school system that it is so how to raise a brave student who will not be a conformist, who will simply be an active citizen busy for human rights, because human rights belong not when they are written in the Constitution but when an individual has the courage to achieve them and to fight for them. Because it is illusory to expect citizens' institutions to protect themselves. The rights belong to those who fight for them, that's another rule of old Rome. That is why we need children to be raised, but that is why we need such teachers, and they need such support. Such support is achieved in one active and role and educational authorities, both with trade unions and with teachers and with students themselves. I think a single approach like that could be on that internal side and with an institution like this that wouldn't have that one, it would have a catalog. It can also be called a catalogue of knowledge, but where it will not be just years, names, but where there will be trouble solving things very also objectively measured. But to bind the adoption of this law to the necessary amendment not only of the Law on textbooks but also of simple methods and what is taught in textbooks. You see today in the textbook...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10161	Time, Mrs. Anticevic. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10162	Please, just one sentence. It says whether democracy is even for people and whether Croats as few people are capable of democracy at all. It's still in our high school students' textbooks today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10163	Thank you very much, Mrs. Anticevic. The next is representative Danira Bilic. Here you go, Mrs. Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10164	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Although the law of only 18 articles can be considered a relatively small law. I am convinced that by discussing the Bill on the National Test Centre of Education, we are largely ensuring and enabling the improvement of the Croatian education system as a whole. And not just that. This bill implements the written words left in 2002 on paper. In fact, one of the strategic documents of the 2002 Strategy Office states that the priority minimum changes in the development infrastructure of Croatian education that need to be able to implement structural changes are among other things: the establishment of an institution for external valorisation of educational and educational achievements of pupils. I think the need for the establishment of this centre is unquestionable, and by doing so, the more the preambles of this law list many European countries where such or similar centres exist, and somewhere more than a hundred years and shows excellent results. We can therefore say that we are going to meet positive global and European examples and experiences on external evaluations of education and education. And for the first time, we will get the same criteria of the study to be fully uniform, thus achieving equality of all students and enabling the direct comparability of data. And according to the experiences of many other countries, the implementation of the external evaluation of education will also lead to raising the level of quality of knowledge and motivate students not only to learn about grades but also to acquire knowledge, develop the skills and other competences needed. Therefore, external evaluation will provide diagnostic and formal information that will enable educational policy makers, school directors, teachers, public to have reasoned discussions and lay the basis for planning the development and improvement of school work. In the very text of the bill, I saw something as indeterminate, and I noticed that some of the prominent colleagues in the previous discussions had also seen it, and it is in Article 4 where in one item that says that the centre is training, perfecting and issuing a license for external evaluation. Well, it's not clear enough here, so it means that some people outside of the national licensing centre are going to do that evaluation, or that they're going to be in the position of outside co-workers of the centre itself. If this is the first one, I wonder, since we are a small country, is such competition necessary in this segment? I also wonder, as well as others from previous colleagues, whether it is really necessary to perform the functions of directors, whether there should be conditions and doctorate and conditions for 10 years, at least 10 years of working experience, because I think it might limit some people who would be able and competent to perform those functions, and who do not meet one of those conditions. For example, I am aware that the director of such a Slovenian centre is a master. Otherwise, in Article 12, the appointment of the Director is subject to two conditions, and it is also said to bring the terms of his appointment and the resolutions will be laid down in the statute. I find it a little illogical that this dualism, so this way I suggest that the conditions for the appointment of a director or to be passed through the statutes or by law are complete. Otherwise, I read from this proposal of the law the willingness to tackle this Ministry of Science and Education and Sports and this government with reform or the implementation of structural changes to the Croatian education system. I simply believe that we are trying to catch the connection to our children, teachers and teachers, parents, and consequently to the Croatian economy, and to offer society in general quality. That's what all the truth and the meaning of this bill is. The Slovenian reform of education lasted 14 years and caused many heated debates. Let our reform, and this is undoubtedly its beginning, cause even more heated and harsher debates, but let all those who participate in it show enough determination and willingness to complete the reform successfully. I see we don't have to convince each other today whether or not we need to start this center. It's clear to all of us what we want or where we want to be and I hope that's what we'll do. The adoption of this bill would bring us closer to the best possible answer and the question of how to achieve it or how to get where we want. In this respect, I welcome and support the Government's proposal for a law on the national test centre of education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10165	Thank you, Mrs. Bilic. The next is representative Vladimir Plesko. Mr. Plesko, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10166	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The National Centre, the Centre of Education, I believe that the idea is very commendable and that it will finally establish basic criteria, means, for the examination and knowledge of children in all primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia. Many have criticised some of the provisions of this Bill proposal, but for this very reason I believe, this is the first reading that the Proposer, meaning, in the final text of the law, can also take into account all these facts and remarks that will be made in this debate today, and I hope that the Proposer will unite it in a law that will be appropriate for this Croatian Parliament, but most importantly, that it will be tailored to all school institutions in the Republic of Croatia. I think that the time has finally matured in the Republic of Croatia to approach one unique method of evaluation, meaning, knowledge in schools because we have seen, and we have witnessed many of us having children in primary or secondary schools, that there is a huge difference in evaluation, means, in grading children, and that this creates later major problems in schools, high schools and, finally, in the conclusion of higher education institutions. In the debate, many have so far touched more on state graduations. I think too little thinking is directed towards elementary school and what when the primary school is finished, the way you enroll in high school institutions, or high school. There is, however, a very large difference in grades, in student evaluation because it happens to enroll and correct grades in some schools just so that their children can get better and easier to enroll in some elite schools such as high school, or simply at that point, to collect points, grades that do not have their own strength in knowledge and children who later come to those high school institutions. I believe that this Croatian Parliament, through the proposal of this law, should be devoted to maximum care. Also, in the end, it means, and with the state's graduation, I agree, that the success of completing colleges and enrolment, and then the completion of colleges will be far higher because it is through this way of grading and, therefore, thus examining children at the end of high school education, will be able to easily determine what their guidelines are for enrollment. Whether it's technical, social or humanistic colleges and high school institutions. This proposal will also open up, in my opinion, and a competitive relationship between individual schools, which will result in a greater and better education of students, which can be crucial for the future of the Republic of Croatia, because when we see it in our personal part of the economy and in the economy, when there is competition that products are far better, far better quality, and also in primary schooling when it is a unique way of checking students' knowledge, then even among schools will develop this competitive relationship, and in that way the students will eventually get more, which results with people in Croatia much better educated and for what we are about to enter the European Union, I think that we will have a far greater chance in the future for the entire Republic of Croatia. However, I would like to say a few thoughts about the very draft of the law, according to several articles proposed, in the first row of the conflict between the provisions of Articles 8 and 9, which means the employees of the centre, where Article 9 says that there will be technical jobs at school, while Article 8 only talks about the employment of a highly professional, person with a high level of expertise. I do not think that it should be conditional through Article 8 of employment only by a person with a high level of expertise, because in order to carry out technical tasks, printing and dispatch of the test material that is examined, tested and therefore not to be highly professional prepared and that some things should be changed in the law proposal itself. It is also questionable that this is understood in Article 15 under the financing of the activities, I think that by the statute of the institution should be much more precise, i.e. explain, but also through basic indications in the proposal for this law. Also in Article 17(2) of the harmonisation deadline, I think it may be a little short and that it should in any case extend that deadline a little bit, because from the 30 days it has been put in, I think it is a very narrow deadline and I suggest that it be placed at least 60, if not 90 days. And a fourth, which I consider to be this proposal, which is the necessary means. I think they're too small, I think we should plan bigger funds. Because when we look at the structure of the employees that is predicted, renting space, equipping space, I think that these 4 million and something, that it won't be enough, I think it's going to have to be dedicated especially if it's intended to be tested, means the lists separately in the facility, I think that these funds are too small. And what's also in the debate so far has been said, and that's the official secret. This test centre will play its primary role for a unique check of the knowledge of all students in all segments and schools. Right through, so the official secret will be able to prevent some things. Because in the end, if we don't stop the possibility through the official secret of giving away everything that's going to be in that test material, there might be a problem with having medals in all schools that doesn't really reflect the situation. It is also another good circumstance of this law, which in my opinion will open up the possibility of a proper evaluation of the work of teachers, teachers in, meaning primary and secondary schools. Because so far we've had, as in all state services, that directors have assessed the work of civil servants, and in some things it gives some opportunities through pay, etc. Never before, at least as far as I'm aware could be conducted at the level of the entire Republic of Croatia one quality examination of what teachers, teachers really did and did in their work. Because only through this way of examination will you see exactly what teacher to what extent he gave and conveyed his knowledge that he gained by his teaching to the disciples and thus provided all that the disciples should know. And for the very end, we fully support this bill in the first reading. I hope until the second reading and these petty irregularities or shortages will be fixed. And I'd like to say what's been repeated here several times today, about proposing this meaning of the test center, which is that it's not enough to want and suggest that they do, it's necessary to specify these things, it's necessary to make a proposal and put it in the process. And right now, I would like to give my thanks to both Minister Primorac and all the staff of the Ministry's assistants who have finally outlined the proposal and referred it to the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10167	I thank my colleague Pleško. The next is the turn, and I'm sorry, yes, the truth, Mrs. Lugaric answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10168	Dear Madam Vice President, not because I disagree with what my colleague said, but I think one parenting experience is something else from an expert, I think we're having a good expert discussion, so I'd like to just have one dilemma here perhaps to clarify and highlight as important. Namely, grading isn't the same as evaluating. And that's a big difference between grading and insulting. The assessment shall mean more or less subjective assessment of where the student is at a specific specific moment. Valuation contrary to evaluation, except for that element to tell you at the end of the school year you know 3 and that three means this, the evaluation also has an element in introducing innovation and improving quality. In particular, if you knew about 3, what you know about three means this level of knowledge, and in order to know about four, you need to do it, and that, you need to work on this or that. And I think it's very important that we here distinguish that dry evaluation from this evaluation. And all of us, who are saying that this law is good and that the process of evaluation itself is good we're talking about right now, because if that's how it's understood, and I see that it's mostly understood by the promoters, it can and probably will, I apologize for the expression, but if it's a good time to do a little revolution in this whole educational system, because that's the point. To avoid this particular evaluation that you yourself have negatively qualified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10169	Here you go. You need to find a yellow tile. Here's an answer to Mr. Plesko's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10170	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'd just like to say one thing. Here, through the bill of law, it is evident that, meaning, the external evaluation of what students know will be carried out. In what way will that be expressed? Whether grades, descriptive or otherwise, there's a very small difference. A very small difference. It's not. In my opinion, it's a very small difference whether we describe someone as a grade or we make it through, from 1 to 5. I think the difference is small.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10171	Thank you. Next up is representative Jelana Pavicic's Vukicevic. Here you go, Mrs. Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10172	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. By establishing this centre, which, for one of the objectives or tasks of its work, also has the implementation of state diplomas as a unified evaluation of knowledge, i.e. The achievements of the students during his education, we certainly will not achieve that students prefer school and their stay at school, to respect their teachers more, to change the model of learning from memorying facts to interdisciplinary ability to solve problems, will not overnight as with a magic wand provide more knowledge in student heads, more order in school halls, playgrounds. Furthermore, it will not motivate teachers to change their teaching methods to ensure a more modern approach for the students and students to the one attached to the cathedral, it will not motivate them to use their spare time, and demotised by their payload power in the professional training or by the collection of academic material, which will, in accordance with the principle of visual teaching, open new horizons to students. We are all aware that we are not a wealthy society and that we have no money for major reforms because reforms cost money. We also met in the last term when the government, or the competent minister, proposed the introduction and compulsory 9-year education, because it was in fact completely inconclusive and not applied in a limited school space that was sometimes burdened with a three-way course. As my colleague Lugraric said, in a debate on behalf of the SDP Club, Croatian Social Democrats are aware of the living circumstances and therefore support the introduction of a series of complementary measures that will improve education and education systems that will actually prepare students for contemporary labour market processes. It is precisely in this need of graduality, the adaptation of the education system that we are today assessing inadequate, outdated and backward, not thorough and unacceptable because it does not really encourage creativity or freedom of opinion and a problematic approach to the situation. So, just in this gradual adjustment and I see the central role of this national test centre of education. The National Examining Centre is not just the starting point of national graduation, the national prom is one of the segments of the work of this centre which will also organise and implement the external evaluation of education in primary and secondary schools, as well as other institutions, as well as the international evaluation of education, establish a strategy and methodology for the implementation of the external evaluation of education, test catalogues and evaluation standards. I believe that this truly wide-ranging work centre can respond to the most alarming problems in the education system. Who and in what way teaches our students, what matter is present in the teaching process, what teaching methods are more desirable in education for the development of an integrated personality and all its potentials and what is actually the minimum that the student must know. Perhaps all this listing will actually sound like entering part-time work of the Ministry or the Institute of Education but indeed the work of the centre will primarily answer the question of what education is like today in Croatia as an independent institution and it is precisely... communication because it is expected that the school itself points to troublesome places in the need to create a new educated policy in Croatia. I would also point out that it is important to raise the culture of interrogation. But it seems that we are starting from the assumption that culture and evaluation are only being conducted mainly unfairly and unfairly. When we reached a consensus on the need for the establishment of this centre and the conduct of the state graduation, I don't think there is a need and some additional explanations to defile the work of primary school and high school teachers and teachers who have conducted both evaluation and evaluation so far. State graduation will uniquely approach every student not to be saved from the paws of an evil teacher who, regardless of his knowledge, gives bad grades but to learn for the sake of knowledge that will be worth the same in every part of Croatia. In this respect, and in terms of the motivation of teachers, I welcome the announced negotiations with the unions of primary and secondary schools on wage increases, which unfortunately lags 305 behind the national average in Croatia. In order not to repeat myself, I would really only point to a few elements that are highlighted here and here, both in the bill and in the very explanation. First of all, I would like to propose in Article 11 concerning the appointment of members of the board of directors of the Centre itself to introduce the Institute of Public Call to Institutions. Furthermore, in Article 13 where it is said that the Director of the Centre is in charge of the work of the Expert Council, this means that he is a member of it. And if five members are from the ranks of professional staff and two from the ranks of external associates, that would make an even number of council members what I think and in decision-making is not very opportunistic. Even in that sense, I think there should be some kind of change. And yet, I would also draw attention to the financial resources needed to implement this Law and, in fact, to all the businesses in the area of the newly established centre. In the light of this, it is said that part of the funds will be partially alimentated, in fact, from the revenues achieved by the activities of the National Test Centre of Education, so in that sense I think one clarification should be given. Does this mean that the school will bear part of the cost of performing state graduation, and in this sense will income tax support more funds to local self-government units based on decentralised school functions? Because so far, these funds that have been redistributed to local self-government units are not enough to improve the material working conditions in schools and let alone perform more, therefore, one additional function. And finally, I do not really doubt the scientific potential of Croatian artisans dealing with these pedagogical matter that the newly elected director of this National Test Centre must really be highly aware of the way such evolutionary centres work in European countries, a kind of knowledgeer of the model of external evaluation of student achievements, so knowledge, skills and skills. [[/Intruder: Please a little for peace, let's hear a colleague!.]] And if through the Institute of Public Competition it is shown that such experts that Croatia has may not be interested in running such an institution, I think it is very important to allow the newly elected director to gain insight into the funkiconisation, goals and methods of work of such centres, and also to enable such a director to have one education in order not to force everyone to learn on his own skin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10173	I thank you, next at work is President Nenad Stazic. Here you go, Mrs. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10174	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There's a lot of good to be said about this bill. The first good thing is that the new government took over the former government project, that it recognized this bill as good and that it had now been referred to the parliamentary procedure, so a legislative proposal that was already at the end of last, the term of last called the Parliament in the procedure, even passed the debate on committees, that it recognised it, and that in the same form, almost to the score now sent it to parliament. What is the goal of this Law? He's certainly only moving the first step. But the goal, I think, is clear to all of us. We have to become a knowledge society. And now what does "the knowledge society" mean? "The Society of Knowledge" is not just a society of education, "the society of knowledge" is the society that has educated citizens and that appreciates that these citizens are educated. "The Society of Knowledge" is that society that is rightly worth education and values knowledge. This evaluation, this evaluation of knowledge must start from the top of the institutions, from the politics itself. By referring to such a legal proposal in one way, it shows that it cares about the knowledge society in a normative, legislative sense. It must also show this in a practical sense by estimating that knowledge in society. In some ways, trading companies are more valuable in knowledge when we observe a segment of the whole society because a congregation of shareholders of a commercial society when she hires a management she does not care who she hires, who he is nationality, who he is faith or what political option she belongs to. She is interested in hiring a management that is able to manage the firm in a way that is as high as possible and thus making dividends as large as possible. This same management when hiring workers does not normally care about anything but whether the one they hire is able to do the job they trust. On the other hand, we have a state institution. There is also a huge number of people being employed, and we can ask ourselves now whether these state institutions are acting the same as companies, and are they to a sufficient extent trying to be a knowledge society? This is not just about red tape in the narrow sense of words with which citizens are probably rightly dissatisfied because they claim that bureaucracy is uneducated, not only unkind but also uneducated enough. It's about education, health care, the judiciary. These are all the people the state pays, which the state employs. I don't think there's enough value in that valued knowledge. Especially in those cases where politics decides directly, most directly. Because I ask you nice secretary of state no matter what knowledge society would replace one Sanja Crnković-Pozaic, one Paladin, one Adinda Dulcic, doctor and what message is sent to young people with such policy behaviour. The message is quite clear. It doesn't matter what you know or whether you know what political option you belong to. How can this agree with what the bill says? That the law will produce a number of positive effects, for example, the adoption of an attitude to pay off and learn because it is rewarded for real merits, and the motivation is increased and so on. When these young people from these examples of life that I have cited, and I could have led hundreds of others because their name is legions, I can conclude something quite the opposite of what it says here. Prime Minister Sanader said at the beginning of his term: "There will be no rematch, there will be correction of mistakes." If that's true, and I trusted the Prime Minister and I trust him, and now the conclusion can be made: Yes, it is a mistake to be educated. Because if these shifts correct mistakes then it's wrong to be educated, then it's wrong to be a doctor of science, then it's wrong to do your job well. These messages that politics sends to society don't encourage what we really need to be. The law is only the first step, we've already said technically. It establishes one institution and is necessary and necessary. It's the first step I seem to miss some content. It would be good to get that content into law by the second reading. First of all, when it comes to the State's graduation program. The law now provides, the state's graduation will be... It wouldn't be bad if it were a little bit detailed until the second reading, to see how it would be implemented, how, by what programmes, and to see if it would achieve those goals that we want to achieve. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second thing I think is that it's going to be a quality achievement for knowledge to be valued as a product because you know a student and a school. They enter into a legal relationship. The student undertakes to attend class and to study according to the program he has been given, according to which the course is performed. The school, on the other hand, must commit to the student, that the student will master knowledge and skills. And when it's out, so through this institution it's worth that knowledge that will be evaluated indirectly and the school because you'll see which schools are able to educate the students and train them and which ones are not? We're going to encourage competition between schools and we're going to get what we want. Valuation of knowledge as a product. I'd like to give you Mr. Secretary of State a grudge I don't have a lot of warning about just two. That is, the sentence: “Part of the funds will be partially alimentated from the revenues achieved by the activities of the National Test Centre of Education”. If that means that the state's graduation will be paid against it on its own. If that means anything else, then it would be good to explain it and be precise. And your calculations for employees but completely wrong. There's been some kind of incomprehensible mistake. I believe she's quite a coincidence because for 2004, you're predicting 10 employees and 960 thousand kunas. For 2005, 15 other employees and the funds needed for these 15 employees, but you forget to add those 10 who were employed last year. So they're not only enough for 15, but for the next year for 25, and systematically so on all the years, and then you're going to get to the point that you don't need a total of 4 million and 160 thousand kuna, but 7 million and 470,000 kuna. This isn't a grudge, please. These funds are not too large for this goal to be achieved. Only correctness works until the second reading correct these calculations and, as only so will you be able to plan the funds correctly in the state budget for each year, for the next and the next one that follows. With all that I've put forward, I support this legislative proposal and I think he's going to be released to another reading in this House unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10175	Thank you, fellow Stazic. A correction of the incorrect allegations was reported by MP Matušić. Here you go, Mr. Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10176	First it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10177	I thought you fixed it, you changed it, this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10178	First there was an injury and then later... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10179	Both of you, then I'm sorry to bother you, but first there's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10180	First, Madam Vice President, I think you've allowed a truly broad view of your powers that no one is taking away from you for the right or we give you for the right, but obviously you've allowed the subject to be transferred to a whole other area, so I ask that I base myself on Article 209, that those who really talk about the subject of which it is. This is about the Law on the National Education Examining Centre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10181	As prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, the right of the Chairman is that the assessment of whether or not the Rules of Procedure have been broken. My assessment was that he was not injured and your right is of course to state a different attitude if you have him. And now, to be sure, Matušić is correcting an incorrect navoad, please, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10182	I thank Madam Vice-President, namely counterpart Stazic incorrectly stated that Prime Minister Sanader sent a message to the Croatian public that it was wrong to be educated. It is true that Sanader’s example of certain shifts has sent the following message to the public. The message is that there can be no more members of those places who are irresponsiblely acting out their role as directors who are doing criminal activities, it is true that I cannot kill people who, let's say, have their friends' support because their friends are sitting in the government. These are messages that have been sent and the message is that it is indeed about correcting errors and correcting the wrongs that have been done in the past four years. Not what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10183	Maybe you should let the lieutenant tell you what he recommended. So, eating for the debate, there's a representative named William Herman, Mr. Herman, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10184	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The establishment of a national centre, such as in many European countries, will allow for an extra evaluation of education in primary and secondary schools and other institutions. Which will finally give the Republic of Croatia the opportunity to judge the actions of its education by a competent national and independent institution, i.e. public institutions. This will certainly lead to the possibility that, in order to obtain the present often unobstructed and thus unsupervised evaluation of the effects of education, which, according to its origin, was almost exclusive to the internal character. The same teachers participated in the process, and much less the students and other independent experts who conducted educational processes and programmes. On the other hand, however, it is not necessary to fall into the trap of complete impression with a dry mechanical and therefore a false objective assessment. The evaluation analyses that the future centre will be able to determine how appropriate educational programmes really are, and if they achieve the expected results, but what is most important by such an approach will be possible institutionally to condition the talents among the student population to make them possible exactly. And so focus on their systematic monitoring not only through the educational process but also after the completion of this educational process. This necessarily requires an extension of the activities of the centre, and this is my proposal, not only in the domain of primary and secondary education but mainly professional training and advancements in relation to adult education and what we call the long life learning system. In addition, it would be desirable to monitor and encourage informal forms of education that are significantly present in Western European countries, and their education systems in particular in the Kingdom of Denmark. In this context, the focus is also on the experience of a cito group from the Kingdom of the Netherlands and it has also served as a reference institution to propose it is formally this Government but in fact the government has passed it as one of the world's strongest centres for pseudometry and educational measurement of which some 150 thousand students pass the tests annually. This institution also works on systematic monitoring of adult education. Professional embellishment and acquisition of additional knowledge, after completion of the classical education process. This enables goo's full transparency in the acquisition of individual qualifications and encourages the realisation of close ties and significant cooperation between government institutions and the business world in this area. It is also possible to say that the lack of law in our opinion is in the absence of provisions that would clearly prevent a possible conflict of interest in respect of external experts who can engage the centre. Positive effects in education will be seen in a sense in the greater activity of students in the acquisition of knowledge. Raising the quality of the knowledge provided, worktvonroits schools to achieve the benefits of individual and common results to quality working communication of students and professors. Systematic monitoring of students' progress, the achievement of a stimulating working environment, with further appropriate school equipment to doactic assistance, informing higher education institutions and labour markets about the content of educational programmes and defining the missing girls. And setting clear uniform and transparent standards for each teaching course and educational area. And that's, of course, good. But it's only good what's imagined, or it'll only be good when it crashes with life. If there is more politicisation and there is as much of it as you want in life, there will be smaller doings, or perhaps quite unsatisfactory to the imagined project. And politicization can be in different ways of the dock. It may be present from the irrational or without the change criteria until the actual volunteer approach to the application of the law itself. So what is the next proposal is to find a mechanism that will be effective and a view of the control of the implementation of the law. The law also suffers from a number of nomotechnical remarks we agree with what the Legislative Committee has proposed. And in conclusion, I want to say that a permanent task remains a young person in the process of education simply learn to think, how much hast it sounds like a phrase but it is indeed a presumption of Croatian knowledge. And on the contrary, the natural pattern that we most often meet today is simply a naked collection of data not critically interpreted. So without politicizing the chance of the success of this prodigal law with politicizing a lot of what we're looking at these days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10185	Thank you, Mr. Herman. Next up is representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go, Mr. Jurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10186	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, this must be one of the most intense topics I think when we talk about schooling in one way or another and while fellow Janjic was on this side of the bench and he often talked about it. And I think when we talk about the interest of the Croatian public, the public that maybe health and education is what the Croatian public is more interested in, maybe the judiciary. But we almost didn't want to do this, and as far as the judiciary is concerned, we don't have to. So, indeed, a topic that interests every family, including all of us, had children who did not have children. So anyway, if we were to look at the essence of humanity in some way, we would certainly come to the fact that this is one way of systematically transferring human knowledge is one of the most important things that makes the difference between humans and other living things. I feel so much that every conversation about this subject and how important it is. And especially about this subject that we're talking about today is a lot of things I can say that I personally support this proposal, I think it's good that its intensity is good, which is most important. I think the particular idea of a national prom that we used to talk about is often to be supported but it's also obvious from what colleagues said earlier that it's a question of standard. So it's one of the basic questions when we're talking about State's graduation. in which way society will ensure that in all secondary schools a standard is provided which will guarantee that, under equal conditions and with equal knowledge, students will be able to obtain approximately the same evaluations, for example. Because it was really the most unfair thing to do, it could have been seen in high school as well. The most unfair thing was when with the same amount of knowledge students had different grades or even that it could have happened that someone who had a higher amount of knowledge had a lower grade just because the schools were simply not standardised, what we had was the middle where the mass of students passed with excellent success and therefore had an advantage, etc. So I think that's one of the basic issues that we're going to solve, how we're going to solve this standardisation, and that's also affecting the problem of primary and secondary schools, but also the problem of enrolment in colleges. I think the state's prom would solve a lot of this college enrollment problem, about putting potential candidates into the same position. One of the most important things in which they never made it to the end of the previous government, to increase when we speak to the standard and personal standard of teaching staff, that's another type of standard. If we do not have satisfied teachers, and all major civilizations have shown that they are based above all on human knowledge and that we can also say when we look at today some examples of countries that have made in ten years of terrible leaps, it is often said Portugal, Ireland, entering the European Union, etc., but then we will see that these were the countries that have invested most in the last ten years just in knowledge. Investment in education in every way is an investment in knowledge. Education is also important for one more thing, and that's socialization as we all know it. So in one period of that school, these groups of friends and also the role of teaching staff from teachers, teachers to teachers in high schools have an extremely important role to play. It seems to me that one category that is often, to which people are the most sensitive in society, is very much related to education, which is a category of righteousness. If we don’t develop in schools, we can evaluate students in a fair way, i.e. that the student has the feeling again that with the same amount of knowledge he gets the same grade as someone else in any school anywhere in Croatia, then we are in trouble. Then we are in trouble, because at that stage, too, in some way, we will come to the point of developing a sense of injustice, injustice, corruption, and I don't know what it can't be all about. That's exactly what I'm saying to make sure when things are being specified here, there's been a lot of ideas about it, state graduations to make sure that's exactly what we're doing and that it's a normal thing then what's going to determine in some way and the position of candidates when we get into colleges. I'd like something else when we talk about schools, and it seems to me that in our schools, and it's been mentioned here several times or more when it comes to AIDS, sexual illness, this and that, I really don't know what to call it in Croatian school. Regardless of all our frustrations and frustrations, all the dilemmas that exist in our society about these and those topics related to this area, it seems to me that a kind of education of this kind would be needed in a more appropriate way in our schools. Otherwise, when you look globally, I think that both our schools and our teachers are one of the most valuable segments of our society and by their efforts that they make and by their results, no matter what we think. This information on the number of students completed, etc. They are who they are. We're an educated country, we're a country with a bad education structure. We often beat ourselves to a thousand-year-old Croatian culture, this and that, and we fool ourselves a little, because when we look at that educational structure, then we see that the opposite of us is a social being, that some reality is a little different. But I say once again, it's not easy for people who work in education, in school, and it seems to me that, I'm not saying that for this government's sake, I don't think anyone has found the right measure at this point, that we should do everything in any way to improve the position and personal standard of these people. So by supporting this idea and thinking it's good, by supporting the idea of a state degree that was mentioned here, I think it might be a fundamental effort to do standardisation in some way in our schooling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10187	Thank you, Mr. Jurevic. Next up is Madam Representative Katarina Fuchek. Here you go, Mrs. Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10188	Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I am giving absolute support to this bill and not only for the establishment of the exam centre as an institution, but first of all, I see a step towards education reform, i.e. an operational step towards this reform of education and Croatian education systems, as well as raising standards and obtaining standards in the quality of learning, knowledge, ability and assessment of application and ability. I would also like to give support to the Minister who did not wait and did not wait for some complete material in the form of a strategy in writing, because he understood and well saw things that more time to connect to modern and modern society of advanced technologies did not have but that we must go right away, which means he had the courage to move on and to see in his beginning the essence and problems of Croatian education that he must face. Only the establishment of the centre is one step, and what I would like to say to this occasion is the quality of the existing education system and the problems that Croatian education is dealing with in this section. What is now a Croatian school and whether those who need it are, above all children who attend it, who come out of it with some knowledge, with some abilities and opportunities to engage in life, into new educational processes and the application of already acquired knowledge. Are the children satisfied? We are constantly witnessing other situations that our students often flee from school, that some of their subjects are not most relevant, that certain items are those that often appear as problematic in the view that children cannot master the material, that they need frequent instructions, that the material is inappropriate. Despite all the information that a modern man must know in this time of day to be able to do his job quality and his calling, we must face the situation that, after completing education, children come to us illiterate, literally illiterate. Here is an example that the load of materials is simply not applied in a quality way as reproduction afterwards. It doesn't matter now in which, or I don't know exactly what programme, in which part and in which class is taught in Croatian, aorist imperfect, but literally a lot of teachers remain in a reproductive way looking for it as feedback with the extensions "ah, ashes, aces, aces, aces, aho", etc., which I think is absurd. A child of such a thing, unless he is a professor of Croatian language must know at the level of information and in the literary part of the style application. That's enough. Remember, don't remember, don't remember. If he's not going to study, he won't need it anymore. I think that also information that might be interesting if you're interested in a particular area and if you're into it and if you're prone to it, but you don't have to, can be present in textbooks and can be checked, but it's certainly not important for some kind of knowledge check. As well, for example, how many people were at Stjepan Radic's funeral with all respect to the person and identity and Croatian history, I still don't think that information for some kind of knowledge check is important. So, if we can achieve this centre with good staff, with a quality approach, make the standard of knowledge checks and the general culture, as well as make a standard of the abilities, abilities and creativity of that student and the ability to evaluate those abilities, I think we've done a lot. However, it is also important with which personnel and staff will be involved in the design of individual projects, in the design of individual or individual catalogues of knowledge. Whether only those who, with certain scientific achievements, have acknowledged in their profession or those who participated in the teaching process and have achieved direct results not in terms of best evaluation but also acceptability and for students as good educators who know in which way knowledge enters the children's heads the easiest. I think that society is now a big difference, i.e. that the difference between the village and the city is gone and that in this sense our school, or our schooling in a material sense, must surely demand and surely have greater opportunities for equal access in terms of equipment, in terms of some technical and qualitative spatial conditions, and that these differences must be erased. Because the information through the means of public communication from television goes further equally to the village and to the city, and there is still a lot of environments that are certainly not materially mature in this sense, or not in this way materially equipped. Certainly, no advanced step that in any far-reaching future can go cheap and must be determined in this sense by a certain amount of money, but that is, in any case, investment in the development of Croatia. Education is the foundation, the foundation of society's development. They always said that, and everyone accepted it, but I don't think it's ever been true that it's always proven from the existing ones. So, lagging behind in the development of education in certain segments and not all being classified and aware of the motivation of teachers. The teacher is not enough to get only a monthly salary, but he must be satisfied in his work. It must have conditions, quality conditions for that work. Also, teaching teachers and teachers is a very important thing. A seminar of half-years is not enough, especially when in the past 10 years we only see backwards how much technological progress in information technology is very present and how far this has gone, I think that in this sense we have to take special care of teacher education, their motivation, because in this sense, the teaching process, regardless of the standards, will not have anyone to implement and will not gain that quality. It will still be a regulation, and it should be an application for us. We must restore faith in the Croatian schooling, above all the students' faith that he wants to go to that school, that he will learn something at that school not to be checked by the teacher but to apply his knowledge in his life and to have and see the goal and to have a way towards that goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10189	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10190	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Looking at the clock, I'd say a little bit of law in scope, and what a big debate, which means that you recognize the importance of this topic, and I think that the Proposer made a good move by sending such a law into the process. What confuses me a little is, of course, maybe the marble that followed a really quality law presentation by the promoter and many of the really good discussions, because it leads me to one small fear that maybe we all get together what's important, and that's the need to recognize that the law doesn't just change so much reality. So, will we recognize it when the state budget is brought next year because without that move, certainly all laws and good intentions will not be enough. As far as concrete legislation is concerned, I would say that he is one of those reform moves that should be included by the Croatian system of education in the European circle of education and looking at many of those findings that are statistically showing that perhaps, already someone here has said, I must say something that my view of our educational system may seem ambitious. No matter what numbers are as they are, I must tell you that every day in my job as a teacher, I meet a number of great young and educated people who, after completing their studies in Croatia, create beautiful careers abroad. This means that our education system has good sides and virtues, but that there's something in the system that doesn't first allow in one way or another to make it an elite top education that some of me really points out really get in our schools and universities to make it more massive. The other same from my own experience that I have to conclude is that the differences with which high school students come from high schools are dramatic. They are truly dramatic and you have young people who are not by their own fault and are actually denied through their 12 years of education and in that starting position, if we consider enrollment in the university as some starting position for the future profession to be significantly disabled. That is why the law proposed has a very good intention and a good message, and I suppose it is also seen from the law that the aim is in some way to level the criteria and control the quality, which is the assumption of an excessive pyramid of education from the basic, and even from basic education to the doctoral study. Returning to a concrete law, of course, I would not repeat a number of precise findings both in terms of the education system and in terms of the law, but perhaps concentrate a little on some concrete things. First, since the law is in the first reading, I think the proposer should see a little conceptually he defined the center as a public institution. Although according to some of its functions, I think Mr Letica mentioned Professor Letica in changing the proposal, changing the name of the term of the institute, which associated with the management organisation. It's possible for both models, but it's doubtless that if it's an institution, and even if it remains an institution, it has certain public powers. And in principle, public authorities should seem more precise and detailed to me and point out that such a public institution has certain public powers, because the very fact that a public institution does not give such public authority. Secondly, what I think the proposer should consider is a relationship with other institutions, in the first place, the Institute of Education, and also with inspections, I think there is, an inspection that deals with the school system, and that should be seen, whether their competences are intertwined and whether this entire system could be rationalised so as not to result in a bunch of bodies that may then have no real coordination between each other. Also conceptually when it comes to advice, the advice especially if it is related to one of these services as provided for in, for the test centre, is in principle a set of external experts who advise, so I have to tell me an unusual solution in which most of them are domestically made, so I say experts from the centre itself and the chairman, so there is also that problem of a number that is not clear from such a formulation, but I think that this advice should actually be really in the function of counseling from outside and whether it is really important that most of the domestic people are in relation to that institution and whether such one approach will achieve that function that is desired. In this evaluation, I think it is important to realize that our existing education system is and it is a fact concentrated and that young people at all levels learn too many facts that are even absurdly going into details, unnecessary details, and that creativity is ignored on the one hand. and others to neglect breeding very often. When I say that education is neglected, then I don't mean maybe always or don't think too hard this time about what's called civil communication courtesy, but I mean raising in terms of some values that should be encouraging for the development of this society. I would illustrate it with an anecdote, I had the opportunity to stay at a very respected American university for a short time, and I walked into a gym and found a large number of students writing something. and ask what you're doing? – they say – we write the test, we write the exam. And I'm asking, and who's watching you? Why? Because it's a big part of my job at college to make sure they don't sign off on a written exam. They looked at me astoundingly, and said that no one could think of a copy at all, not only because it was part of their morale, business in the future, and now educational morality, but also because because of the competence and the fact that if it unfairly comes to a certain result, it could or wants to take someone who was doing business in the company X or on that ranking list, so it's part of some morality and social morality that builds on whom work must be first. Personally, I think one of our important problems is that we do not valorize the work and the results of this work. So I think that education should go in that sense and that the evaluation of both institutions and individuals, so both teachers and students, should take into account both motivation and psychological and mental attitude towards work and tasks that each of us has in this education system. It should also certainly be encouraged in a positive way to the competence of individual schools. I think public publication of the list of successes at the national prom, so the university enrollment would be a clear message to both ambitious students and parents about what school is, which is worth, and on the other hand, those who are one year lower on the ranking list would be a motive to improve their work. I also think that our criticism of perhaps taking some new schools lightly, in particular of private ones that absolutely need to be stimulated, but which I don't think are sufficiently subject to evaluation and control, would lead to the removal of situations that often occur that are public, but also many private schools are not at the height of the task they have. That's why I end up very supportive of this law. I hope it's only one in a set of those laws that will come from the ministry. And of course I point out that the law cannot be expected to change the system overnight, but we all need a long, persistent and patient work to make it happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10191	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10192	The correction of the wrong quote refers to the phenomenon of copying. In fact, a colleague, Josipovic, interpreted him from the point of view of personal morality and the prospective orientation of students. We are all often in an awkward situation that we as guardians, teachers are much more uncomfortable even at postgraduate studies than our students who prescribe, and we are ashamed. The phenomene, or my interpretation, is related in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10193	Dude, these are interpretations. You're correcting an incorrect quote, you're not correcting anything incorrect. A colleague, Josipovic, said, was at that American university, which he saw. You can correct if you think that he incorrectly said that he saw it there how students. And the other is not a correction to an incorrect assumption. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10194	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, let me look back on this bill that is before us, and at first I want to point out the strong support of this bill, and actually praise this Ministry's step at the head with a very determined and brave young minister who knows exactly what is needed in the entire education system to achieve those standards that we all seek. Not to bother them since yesterday and the day after that, which has clearly been seeking for the last decades. And in this respect, this is certainly one of the first more powerful steps, and in this respect I commend both the minister and his associates personally on what they have prepared today. The debate that has been quite comprehensive as it has already been said here really encourages me and I actually think that we will have the strength to bring together in this assembly with such distinguished colleagues who have experience in the educational process, in fact to come up with some solutions that will improve a system that does not suffer much change and change. We all remember different changes in times that were not easy at all and that actually had a long-term bad impact on the education system. Let's just remember the famous reform of Shuvar, which has had an extremely bad impact on the development of an educated system in the Republic of Croatia, that is, the Croatian state. And I must say that it is important that today's knowledge in the SDP is such that we have had a single statement here, from fellow Member Ingrid Antičević-Marinović,... to reinterpret that the education system is the most taught by democracy and democratisation. This is a significant progress that comes from the ranks of party members who is directly the follower of a party that was totalitarian. So you'd be asking an automatic question about what totalitarianism was at that time, in times of communism when this party ruled over what school was learning then? Certainly not democracy and democratisation. So, I wouldn't, there's significant progress in thinking, but it's turned to essence. The essence of this Law is long-term external, therefore external, external evaluation of the education system, the whole process and all those involved in the process. So, from the students themselves to the teaching staff, to the institutions. And that's something that's extremely important because, already said here, there are great differences between institutions but also within the system between teachers themselves who are not valorized positively enough. I also agree that the results are quite ambivalent. And I'm just going to point out a positive example because it seems to me that exactly a positive example can lead us to how the system should develop. I will give an example from the work of the educational process which, with which I am professionally closely and connected, is an art education which unfortunately is not so significant in the overall schooling, nor is a large number of populations covered by artistic education. Just to get the impression of what it's about, let's say in Croatia it's a coverage somewhere between 2.5% and 3%. In one Germany, let's say there's a population of 20% now that you add population numbers to that, then you'll know what population it's about. So, in this part of education, Croatian students, those who participate in the education process in Croatia, because we also have foreign students in our school who participate in this, precisely in that part, therefore in artistic education achieve excellent results. Not only at national level but also in European terms, they achieve excellent results, therefore, the best results and on, we can freely say at the world level, because their results in world competitions are such that they simply contribute to the fact that we have actually excellent artistic education. So from that part of the system we could just apply those most significant characteristics and that's competence. So, the competitive spirit, a positive competitive spirit, where, indeed, only by the basis of their abilities, they can acquire their knowledge, let’s say certain rewards but also certain status within the system itself and among the students themselves. So that's one system that I say conveniently closed. And it is unfortunately also public, because the entire public unfortunately gives very little attention to these very parts of the educational process, and actually when you look at the media, through the media, there are other examples of these young students. And that's unfortunately, it goes, goes, goes so far as to make it so that the role model becomes those who have neither knowledge nor ability nor skill, actually all the opposite of what it should be. Therefore, the entire system of values in the Republic of Croatia should be focused on really being valued except for this evaluation that is needed through the institutional form to be valued through all other possible visions of action. First of all, I think of the media, those most responsible in the media who are just in charge of promoting this system of values and thus helping all those who participate in the system of education of young people, as well as in education as previously said here. As far as the law itself is concerned, there was at least a speech here, because obviously we are all one-hearted and in the assessment that it is extremely necessary, that, I say, it was long expected. And yes, of course, there is still a need to clarify the issue of the number of members of the expert council, i.e. the way of the election. But let me also refer to some suggestions regarding the director of the institution itself. Namely, colleagues and colleagues, I think it would be devastating and embarrassing if we allowed the provisions that were introduced into the Law or the Rules on the Management of Public Institutions in Culture adopted in the previous session to be introduced into this Law. I'm referring to the proposal of the former Culture Minister, Mr Vujic. In this shameful law, I call it a shameful intention to give a special weight to it, is a introduced provision by which the director, public constitutionals in culture, therefore, are mostly theatres, orchestras, etc., can also be a person who does not have a high school. It is embarrassing for the entire Croatian cultural public. In order not to come to such a situation, I absolutely support this position of the Ministry that at the head of the institution, especially because it is provided by this Law that the Director is at the head of the expert council. So in this system, the pyramids of education, of course, must be the person who was in the education system, I also support the proposal that he must have the least experience in the educational process for 5 years. So it has to be the person who has the least, let's say the least master's degree, and it would be good to be with a doctorate. So, absolutely supporting this one proposal so that we don't come to such an embarrassing situation that at the head of an institution that involves higher education in the least case, it happens to us as in this proposal, I say a shameful law for the Croatian cultural public that it can be a person who doesn't have such a professional training, so it can be a completely uneducated person, a person who has no idea about the matter. In that sense, absolutely supportive, especially this article of the law on my part. And yet once again, I point out the value of the external, external evaluation of the entire education system and all its components, but particularly bearing in mind the final objectives, promotion and standardisation, that is, those minimum standards that need to be established with the State's graduation. It seems extremely important to me because then these differences that really exist between different high schools and perhaps even more significant between different primary schools, they will be reduced, I hope, to a minimum. And one more thing that needs to be taken into account, is the education of teaching staff in this process, the preparation for the state's graduation. I think that this is a significant step and that it will take considerable resources to separate all these people who participate in the education process from education to actually educate and prepare for a system of state graduation that is fairly clear here and highlighted in the law itself. So once again, full support and commend the Minister and his associates on this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10195	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10196	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Matušić commended me, and here I am going to suck what I would agree to, but only in one part, so I am correcting this second part. He says: “I commend the Minister and the Ministry for boldly preparing this proposal.” I also commend the Minister and the Ministry for courageously signing our legislative proposal. However, they needed to be even more courageous and then groomed in this sense in which the debates went.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10197	My colleagues, and what have you corrected, I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10198	I also corrected what Mr. Matusic said that the government, or the minister and the ministry, prepared it, did not prepare it, but only instructed and copied it. It's a make-up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10199	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10200	Okay. Keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10201	Here you go. Now you have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10202	So, I further replicate my colleague Matusic, who was to me when I called on what I consider to be the most important thing, the democratisation... As a future foundation for real democratisation of society, he honors me for how I can talk about it when the party is non-totalitarian and belonging to a non-totalitarian party. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll give you a totalitarian party. I will tell you that a man can really belong to a totalitarian party but with his democratic consciousness he can democratisation it and that party can then be democratisationd in that sense that he can create both conditions and democratisation society. But a man with totalitarian consciousness, and even if he belonged to the most democratic party, can't change. Not her or herself.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10203	Reply to the replica, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10204	Yeah. This progress is very important in the consciousness of individual members of the heirs of one totalitarian regime and the totalitarian party. It is very important, very important and significant actually for our democratic system. That is, I absolutely agree, but I also want to say that it is brave and bold indeed from today's minister, and that is also the fact that you didn't have the courage if you had prepared something similar to this proposal you didn't have the courage to end it. That's a fact. Otherwise, we wouldn't be talking about this again today. So if you had the courage to bring this law to me today you wouldn't have had this request. We'd already have preparations for State's graduation. Therefore, but I fully agree with these findings about totalitarianity. There you are absolutely right to say, but significant progress made in your ranks and I am very pleased.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10205	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Krešimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10206	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here, allow at the end of this long-term debate on knowledge or ignorance, the acquisition of knowledge, about institutions that are important for the creation of knowledge in the Republic of Croatia to say a few words. We certainly need and there is a developed system of internal knowledge evaluations. If this internal system of evaluation of knowledge is good then it is very likely that external evaluations should not be necessary, but the fact is that everywhere in the world along with this internal system of evaluation of knowledge made by teachers or teachers, I do not know what they are called in primary and secondary schools, there is a certain external independent evaluation of institutions that aim at equating or equating the level of knowledge that children acquire in basic education. And what's particularly important about that now? And that's why I think, and I'm going to point out that this bill is extremely important because we don't only involve children in the knowledge evaluation system, but we also include those who teach children. Because if all those who teach children did so equally well then there would be no such difference that is alarming especially at the level of high schools and then this Law would not have as much importance as it has. But I'd rather stick around on one important issue that's just a little bit touched here. We really talk a lot about knowledge. It is now very popular for the last ten years “known base economy” means an economy established on knowledge, knowledge society and so on because, unfortunately, in many more developed countries, it is a mechanism that ensures accelerated economic growth, prosperity, quality of life, social security and many others. Unfortunately, in those other countries, that system doesn't work. And no matter how much we talk about knowledge here, it's gonna be hard to change the essence. And for that I would point out, and someone here has made a very important point in these discussions, the debates may not only not have received an answer, but we hope that in the debates that follow it will have to be answered. Why do we really, ultimately need these knowledge in our society? The ultimate purpose of this knowledge was not finally determined, and if we did maybe some random statistic, if we asked the children why they needed it, then they would say they needed a better grade. If you were to ask someone who might be watching a lot of television, he would say, "I need knowledge to win the Million...", that show, no, the show. I don't know his name. So what is important seems to me that there is still a completely false concept and picture of what knowledge is in our society and what knowledge is not and what is the strength of knowledge. Not only the knowledge at individual level but at the level of institutions, but most important of all the knowledge at country level. Why does the state need knowledge? It's certainly not an abstract category. The state has knowledge then if they have citizens who are part of that state. State, here I am going to be free and say the following as a man who worked for 30 years in a knowledge-making system, producing knowledge, published nearly a hundred works with international reviews, worked on various international institutions, the state needs first of all under the number one knowledge because of the competitiveness of the economy. In this competitive economy, much more needs than formal knowledge itself, and there was something said that we need high-quality knowledge, we need well-fluctuated knowledge. We need specialist knowledge, but in addition to knowledge, we need ideas, creativity, innovation, management and everything that today in the world creates a top product. Unfortunately, there is little or too little in undeveloped or transitional countries, and therefore there is a clear need to say this: we need to worry much more not only about knowledge but about the structure of knowledge that the Republic of Croatia needs. Let's remember well 15 years ago I was staying as a guest researcher at a respected American university at the Aero Space Department University of Michigan... And then I had a chance to watch all those young prominent researchers coming from Korea, India, China and many other countries. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I watched what they did and what they didn't do? What did they publish and what didn't they publish? And the result of all that, I won't go into further analysis, is very simple. These countries are those that today have high economic growth rates that have continued. These are countries that have a strong developed and commercial economy. These are countries that have strong not only medium and small prunes but large multinational companies, which have the greatest share of the world's knowledge. And that is why it is necessary to make it clear to the state that these kinds of knowledge are needed and that the state should have these types of knowledge in a quality way to structure knowledge. Further why the state needs knowledge is also needed because of a competitive I would say much more competent state administration. And in this whole story, certainly full of support for the initiative and the transfer of the law that I am sure will receive support for this assembly, but it also needs to move forward with further initiatives that should give us clear answers to those questions that may not be sufficiently highlighted here. What knowledge we need is what knowledge we are less concerned with, which knowledge today is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia and is not available and should be 8. In order to gain that knowledge, we must restructure our institutions. What we need to learn and what we do not need, because in a limited state budget for all ministries of all activities, it is quite clear that problems with limited resources will also have a Ministry of Science, for this reason it is important to set priorities. Which children will be good children generally need to learn those basic things, but let's move on. What people need to learn from colleges and what not. What matters is what's less important. Further to learning institutions, the question is whether they are learning and progressing in the Republic of Croatia today. It is an extremely important segment of strengthening and developing societies not only individually go to learning, but institutional learning is what we must, among other things, be concerned with the level of knowledge of the speed of growth, which today is embedded in some important institutions in the Republic of Croatia and I would say what is even more important than any important institution that would almost exist in all developed countries, unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia does not exist. And in the end, I'm afraid in this debate, we've made this story of knowledge-making knowledge of using it to an inadmissible extent. And that those discussions that will follow in the next draft laws will show this complexity of all that is important for the creation of knowledge awareness and more than anything in those basic two segments that I previously highlighted the competitive economy of a competitive and competent state administration. And finally, a very simple conclusion full of support, this initiative for the reasons I said at the beginning of this bill is not only about children but also about those who learn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10207	Replica esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10208	A respected colleague rightly points out the importance of knowledge. But noting that knowledge is important for strengthening the specifics of the economy and better administration. It seems to me to miss that important goal, the knowledge society is primarily a society of justice. A lot of criteria, why. Because the criteria are knowledge, the society of knowledge is the society where it doesn't matter what nations, races, skin colors, political belongings, people involved in society. Where knowledge is the only and basic criterion of its progress. We can have a society of educated individuals, who will, however, leave the country. If we're going to be friends then, we won't. And why go away, so because they won't have a chance to get involved in all the social events, get on the social scale. If we don't take knowledge society first and foremost as a society of objective criteria. We won't be able to hire them either in the economy or in the state administration, Mr. Cosic, why you're in favour. If some other criteria rather than knowledge criteria are on stage. That's why I think it's important what you pointed out, but you haven't missed the essence of this law the essence of the goal we need to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10209	Reply to the replica, respected representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10210	Certainly the fundamental thing about knowledge are criteria and standards at all levels. And that's not at all controversial, and I didn't explicitly emphasize it because it's meant as an integral part of one g of the lava character of that system. There have been a lot more words here about those knowledge that are important to this country that this state is looking for, and we don't have and we don't know how to create them, and that's why I said that this debate was one-dimensional. THAT was reduced to even things that are too large and inadmissible to simplify this important social category.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10211	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr. Željir Janjic's lovely secretary for a final review, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10212	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I thank you all who participated in the debate that you participated in preparing the debate most sincerely. I am pleased to discuss the proposal of this law that has been discussed in the regular procedure for more than three hours. It shows what our interest in the segment of education is really important for us in the Republic of Croatia. But it also tells us just how much you realize the responsibility you have on you along with the protractor to make this step the best possible way or the best possible. I dare say that we do have such assumptions, that this project actually started the moment when the conclusion was reached in the Croatian Parliament. And now it's going on with it. So just as in the last term some were the position of another opposition, now it's different, everyone has real motives to take this project as their project and I hope that we will end up with a final bill. We will make all these good suggestions and indeed there were many of them, both from the club representatives and from the representatives who participated in an individual debate. We will consider all these proposals and I believe a large number of them in the final proposal for a law on the national test centre of education or perhaps with a different name. We're gonna have to say still open for there can be some more suggestions. I invite you all, as well as those who are interested in you and have some suggestions to send us to the Ministry anyway. We accept our commitment and that we will be able to refer to the parent committee which has helped us a lot so far, to some draft final bill, so that we will continue to be open to new proposals, and I am convinced that there are 38 MPs in the Croatian Assembly in this meeting who have either graduated from teaching schools or are directly involved in education in the entire educational vertical at this time. I think these are really good assumptions to make this important step as one of the important steps to improve the quality of our education, which is our ultimate goal. If we're going to do it in one, two, three years, maybe it's less important how important it is that we go on that road safely and not make any mistakes. I thank you for having understanding of such orientation, thank you for your help that you are willing to give to make this the best we can do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10213	I thank Secretary of State Janjic. I'm closing the debate. Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10215	Proposal for a Law on the National Test Centre for Education. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a Law on the National Test Centre for Education is hereby adopted. Second, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that with 101 votes, this conclusion was unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10216	We're moving on to the agenda. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 73 The legislator is the Government. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, internal policy and national security. You received the reports at the session. There is no representative of the proposer. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Mr. Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10217	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed at the 10th session held on 21 April 2004, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 26 March 2004. In the opening statement, the representatives of the proposing shall meet the members of the Committee on the Lack of Provisions of Article 197. The Law on Armed Forces and in accordance with which it is possible to retired an active military person without elaborated conditions according to which merit is measured for the promotion of the Armed Forces. Therefore, the current application showed the need to supplement the cited legal provision of Article 197. The law. The proposed amendments and additions shall lay down the conditions under which the defence minister will propose the retirement of active military personnel following the decision of the Supreme Commander. The Committee has taken the view that the proposed legislative solution will create the basis for the selection proposal of retired military personnel. After the debate was held, the Committee supported the position of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and by the majority of votes, 8 votes for the adoption of this legislative proposal, one vote against and one abstention decided to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament: a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces is hereby adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10218	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSP club, the respected representative Pero Kovačević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10219	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I have to say on behalf of the HSP Club that it is a sad fact that there is no defence minister in the debate today, and I don't know how it can happen that the government's representative doesn't have a debate about such an important point, and we know that he is around in various interviews and the branches of the Armed Forces and everything else, and obviously he forgot that it was in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, I again express dissatisfaction on behalf of the club, and I also have to thank again for the reasonableness of the Prime Minister who realized yesterday when, on behalf of the Croatian Party club, I said on behalf of the right to what law it is to regulate only one part of the so-called part. Presidential pensions, which is only the part that the defence minister could possibly suggest while still the problem remains that the president of the state can self-initiatively continue to appease beyond any other criteria and this says that all the more important and important regulations in the Croatian Parliament will be considered. So the Prime Minister, Mr. Jarnjak, at our intervention yesterday, withdrew the urgency of the procedure. The first thing that is important to say about this law is that it was to expect the assessment of the situation to be such that it is known exactly how many such pensions have been allocated so far when the criteria are already trying to talk about the criteria related to the distinctions, then at least it was time to say how many such decorations have been allocated. It wasn't done, but HSP's expert team is normally prepared and prepared this time. We must first say that the Presidential Retirement was first established in the Law on the Service in the Armed Forces, which was adopted in March 1995. At that time, only one person was restrained, and everyone else was in favour. This person who was restrained is today's president of the state, Mr. Stjepan Mesic, who didn't know. Now we're going to see exactly by age, so 95 is determined and how much has been brought. In 95, only two people were retired, it was once Article 95. The Service Act of the Armed Forces. 96. - 33, 97. - 43 people, 98. - Three people, 99. - 24 people, but it was done by Mr. President of Parliament Pavletic who was changing because the president had already died. So these objections to the late President Tudjman means he didn't abuse it because it's only 105 pensions. Now let's see how many presidents he's retired from this so-called. The Presidential Retirement. 2000. - 27 persons, 2001. - 5 persons, 2002. – 22 persons and 2003. - 22 people. It means 77 people, including Chachia, who are no longer. So the case of Cacia, because he was retired in 2003 and the secretary of General Stipetic for the public. Now we're going to go to another variant of the Decoration Act, which was normally re-proposed by the Government, but I'm surprised that also colleagues from HDZ who should know the same, on the board, were wondering how many medals were assigned, so now I'm going to tell General Cosic how much was assigned. Velered King Kresimir, Peter Kresimir IV. Today, there are only three living things that have this distinction, and this distinction has General Martin Špegelj, General Tus and General Stipetić, and all three are retired, so it is obvious that the law is being prepared and simulated only in this case. Let's go to further decorations, this is Prince Domagoj's Order. About 301 is living who got that medal, of which 130 were postmortem assigned. The order of Nikola Šubic of Zrinski 890 living, 130 postmortem. Order of Bana Jelačića 271 living, 10 postmortem. Red Ante Starčević 50. Red Stjepana Radića 4, Red Danice Hrvatska 6 and now we are going Red of the Croatian Cross that is for disabled people there are 4500, the Order of Trolists that means to create an army, there are not many such decorations – 5410. It's a 6900 line of player. It is obvious, therefore, that even President Tudjman himself was speaking of him handing out medals with his hand and hat. He didn't hand out, and his hat is visible from what I'm telling you today. It's true and it's true that it's the most assigned so-called. The Homeland War Memorial. There are over 420 thousand of them, but we need to make two differences. One was the Memorial of the Homeland War, the first one in 90, 92, where it did not get a large number, and then in the Law of Features it was extended to others, meaning, not only for members of the Armed Forces and that is the number of 420 thousand. And since the law also mentions monuments to Homeland Thanksgiving, I'll tell you it's a total of 25 grand. So that was to be expected from the government to put a balance assessment in this bill and create a variety of simulations to see what that means. And now, let's read the argument a little bit, and you'll see that even the argument doesn't follow what the law says in terms of standards. It is said so on the page of the reasoning, so it says, for example, for more than 40 years of retirement internship as an additional condition enough one distinction from the group of dignitaries. It's incorrect because it's been talking about 10 years and a medal from a group of high-rises. So I'm just trying to figure out how bad this is about to be prepared, and we were even expected to bring it into an emergency procedure. And we forget the other side, and this is because today the participants of the school "Blago Zadro" asked us about the situation with sublegal regulations based on the Law of Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and other defence regulations. We know that both laws were passed in 2002 and now I'm just going to brief you, and otherwise all sublegal regulations were to be passed within six months. So we are now in 2004, the 3rd month, and that is certainly what the Prime Minister expected from the defence minister to first give him a report on these issues. So I'll tell you next. The commander-in-chief, so President Mesic has, has not passed six regulations out of his jurisdiction. Among them is the Service Regulations of the Armed Forces Officer, the Exercise Procedures Regulations, the rite Regulations, the Ship Service Regulations, etc. The defence minister who suggests such a bad law has not received 17 regulations, and by the moss these are regulations relating to the rights of members of the Armed Forces, so I'm going to tell you some of them alone. This is, for example, the Regulation on Military Provisions that it is known when anyone can obtain a provision under which conditions, the Policy on Housing, the Rules of Procedure and the powers in the procedure of exercising the right to health care, the Regulation on the manner of procedures and powers in the procedure of exercising the right to the protection of the handbook, the decision on the establishment of health commissions and, therefore, there are 17 that I do not hold them all together in particular. And now, we see a further situation under the Law of Defence, the same situation is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia itself did not adopt 5 important sublaws which it had to do within 6 months under the Defence Act. The defence minister also did not adopt nine such regulations, and the government did not propose to the Croatian Parliament, for example, a long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces. The government has not, and now only at our request, the HSP Club, the annual preparedness report and the government has not adopted a defence plan and the government has not yet made a war structure, a decision on legal persons of special importance for the defence of the Republic. So, 11. And this tells you all the fact that it's no wonder that the situation in the Armed Forces and the defense system is like this when we have two laws, but they can't be fully or fully applied because of the fact that those who were in charge, so from the President of the State, the Government, the Secretary of Defense didn't pass the implementing regulations, which tells us that we have essentially non-executive laws. So, I'm going to make it very clear. Watch out, the Institute of Presidential Pensions in all countries in the world is such a nature that it essentially follows the part that it can be accomplished by senior officers when going to retirement, for example, from brigades and more because... And rather suspicious that, if anyone could have become a high-ranking officer, so the brigade and general, that he was automatically and had credit for the Armed Forces and so the late President Tudjman applied it and it was correct. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now, what are we coming to, how has this presidential pension been applied in Croatia so far? It was applied in two ways. The first way was for credit, so you're leaving with a pardon on your head, as it would say, the President of the State, and the other way was to get rid of them and among them, General Cosic here today, a group of 12 generals who went into the presidential pension, to be expelled from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is to expect the government to really, especially the defence minister to understand the situation in the area of defence, how many regulations have not been passed, and therefore there is no need to wonder about all this. And I'm just going to give you a few examples of what we representatives of the Croatian party right within office days are receiving people and I'm going to tell you, and you won't be able to believe, the case of a man who's in the military and retired. He's got 38 years of retirement. And you know how much pension he's given? 344 kunas and 5 limes. Apparently there was some mistake, he's getting such a pension today. And then he asks me, he says, where did these five limes set me? Then you have a variant of guys who have entered the Armed Forces since day one, so 90, 91. Normally, they're more inspective to the Armed Forces in this reduction process and everything else. To them, the amount of pension is from a thousand to a thousand, 200 kuna. The Croatian public also needs to know that these pension presidents do not mean some high pension. We know the case of the generals who went into those pensions, the amount of retirement is below, I speak for the generals, under four thousand kunas, not to mention other acts. So it's not some huge benefit or anything. Now you'd also have to look back at a phenomenon that's happening at the Department of Defense, which is that it's about so-called. Under the Law of Administrative Disputes on the silentness of the administration. Most of the people who address the Croatian party's club rights say they have sought certain rights that belong to them, either under the Law on Armed Forces Service, means, the difficult working conditions and everything else, whether that Master's supplement, for a doctorate that is being achieved by officials at the Ministry of Defence. But watch out, they don't make employees in the Armed Forces. And now, they're requesting members of the Armed Forces and the silence of the administration, no one's answering. 2, 3 of these cases we have here, no one answers or has a chance of getting an answer. So you see what a complex situation this is in all of this, and then you don't have to be surprised that obviously the defence minister is not able to cope with everything he's received because there's no significant shifts. And therefore, it is clear to all why the HSP Club has asked to hold a full debate on the state of the defence system, on the situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia because it is truly unserious to say that two branches of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia will be abolished. So we have to change the Constitution, or we'll end up with a variant that we'll only have two brigades, and then we'll only have enough of the Armed Forces Regulation. Then we shouldn't have a series of provisions and everything. First of all, don't understand, because I'm really tied to the Armed Forces. Since the first day of the 90th, I speak a little bit more emotionally, but the real situation in which the Croatian Army is located at this point hurts my heart when I look at what the situation is, and it is about the winning army. So let us reason, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, we must be the ones who will encourage this important issue to be resolved and not to talk about something that has been done, and nothing has been done and let us discuss such bad legal proposals no more. Once again, I thank the Prime Minister first of all for making a reasonable decision because he understood briefly what it was, and if we had gone further in the process, if there had been no more Prime Minister, he would not have believed that it would not have gone into an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10220	Thank you very much. Then they'd break up and we'd move on at 3:00. The first is on behalf of the SDP Club, the respected representative Nenad Stazic. My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Honored Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go, buddy. The debate on the test centre was closed. And now it's the law to amend and supplement the Armed Forces Act, to serve in the armed forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10222	Your Honor, Mr. President, we can't say hello to the minister, because he doesn't care what we're talking about here, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club supports the proposed legislative amendment and will vote for this legislative proposal to pass the first reading. And I say that right at the beginning so there won't be any doubt about it. However, the SDP Club also has some objections to the proposed legal text, which let me present in this brief debate. Several categories of citizens are entitled to retire under special regulations. Among them are active military personnel. Namely, the Supreme Commander shall have the legal authority to decide independently or on the proposal of the defence minister on the retirement of active military personnel, which are particularly responsible for the promotion of the armed forces, or if there are other important reasons for such retirement. So far, there have been no nor have there been minimum criteria that the defence minister would limit in whom he would even propose to the commander-in-chief for this extraordinary presidential retirement. As for the commander himself, these criteria will not be further. Because the proposed novel does not refer to a situation where the commander-in-chief independently without a proposal of the minister makes a decision on a presidential pension for an active military person. That might not be a good situation. The criteria imposed by the Minister of Defence in proposing retirement, therefore the criteria imposed by the Minister of Defence in proposing retirement should also apply in cases where the Supreme Commander alone, without a proposal from the Minister, makes a decision and for the simple reason that this good news should not be played. And how is it possible to play it? Simple. If the minister and the commander-in-chief agree to die without respecting these criteria, then they will do so in such a way that the minister does not refer the proposal, but that the commander-in-chief uses his authority, which does not change this paper and makes the decision on his own. Such a possibility should certainly be avoided. Here's why. Namely, the reason and reason for the amendment to this legal text is, it should not hide the recent case of Major Chachi. Major Chachia has been on sick leave for many years, but this did not prevent him from actively participating as a seriously ill man in the HDZ pre-election campaign. By doing so, he also violated the Law of Service in the Armed Forces. Because the law precedes him to participate as an active military person in political gatherings. Everyone knew that Chachia was breaking the law. And if they didn't know that by accident, then they could have found out by reading the paper. Because it was just the journalists who had alerted the fact in time for the campaign. I believe that journalists are also monitored regularly in the president's office, and that the president's counsel on defence and military matters together with his two assistants knows the Law of Service in the Armed Forces. The current prime minister Sanader, who served as HDZ president, also knew that Cacia was breaking the law and hired him to do the job of securing the party's pre-election campaign. The former Defence Minister Zeljko Antunovic also knew that Cacica was breaking the law, and for these very reasons, she asked the Chief of Staff to carry out a staging procedure on Cacci. Based on her request with the fact that Cacia broke the law, he was also familiar with Chief of Staff General Lucic..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10223	My colleagues and colleagues, please be patient, let's allow our colleague's representative to speak his mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10224	So, with the fact that Cacia broke the law, Chief of Staff Lucic was also familiar, as was the new defence minister, Mr Roncevic. And what happened. Chief of Staff General Lucic neglected, not only the former minister's request, but also her later rush and publicly said that the tightst procedures are too much, and that he would be able to deal with someone who publicly in front of the whole public violates the Law on Service in Armed Forces and participates in the HDZ pre-election campaign. Also, Minister Roncevic was not impressed at all by the fact that his predecessor had requested the implementation of the tight procedure, and he himself completely ignored everyone's obvious fact that Cacia broke the law. And so he sent a proposal to the President of the Republic for Chachia's extraordinary retirement. The president's counsellor on defence and military affairs, Colonel Imragotic, along with his two assistants, was also not impressed by the fact that Cacia broke the law, and so he proposed to the President of the Republic to agree with the minister's request and his decision to retire Cacia. And Prime Minister Sanader, of whom it all began and who not only engaged Chachia in pre-election activities, has urged him to break the law, but has also been warned that Chachia had roughly broken the law, has made a decision to reward Cacia for his participation in the HDZ election campaign and to appoint him assistant defence minister. The way things fell apart. It's bizarre. The fact that Chachia violated the Law of Service in the Armed Forces would not have been enough to set off if the media had not again discovered that a man had also an extramarital child who had not been cared about for years and had not been paid by a court ruling established alimony. It was then and only then that Cacia was removed from the post of assistant minister, and the President of the Republic withdrew a decision on his retirement. The head of insurance for the HDZ pre-election campaign has thus far challenged several laws, on the rights and obligations of state officials, on the establishment of a state-run alimony fund, and now here is the Law on Service in Armed Forces. In order to avoid Chachia or Chachia, the law is, we all agree on this need to change. But the first and the basic criteria are not well set. In fact, the legislative proposal provides that the active military person proposed for retirement must have a minimum retirement period of 10 years. That's absolutely not enough. In fact, there are no other categories of citizens who could retire with such a small pension. All others who retire under any specific regulations must have a minimum of 15 years of retirement, so we do not see why the same time limit would not apply to active military personnel. The need to correct the text is seen in the last paragraph of the proposed amendment. In this regard, it is said that regardless of the prescribed conditions for retirement, active military persons against whom a tight procedure has been initiated or the final punishment imposed can not be proposed. The Chachi case just described shows that the provision is not strict enough. Namely, Chachiu, who apparently wanted to be rewarded for services done to HDZ, was spared a tight procedure, although the minister had made a request for its implementation and even sent an emergency. The tightening process is simply not mobile, and we don't know if it's even started to this day. That's it. We don't know if General Lucic has yet found enough time to initiate the procedure. What I'm trying to say is that the very fact that a tight procedure isn't initiated just doesn't mean anything at all. If someone wants to protect themselves because they participated in the HDZ pre-election campaign, then the tight process will simply not start. And the public will be told there's no time for him. The formulation must be changed in a way that it is said that the retirement proposal will not be able to be referred to the president, nor if only a request for a tight procedure has been made. So if the request is made, let the strict procedure be initiated and implemented, and only then, if it finds that there has been no acquittal, can retirement be followed. We hope that the Government will respect these remarks and amend the proposed legal text by the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10225	Thank you. We have a little correction of incorrect allegations. The esteemed prisoner, Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10226	Your Honor, Mr. President. I am correcting by who knows which time Mr. Stazic's incorrect quote, where he stands out every time Major Cacchi as a negative example of the current government in staffing. I wish Mr. Stazic had heard from you on February 12, 2003, when the Colonel was appointed in the same way. [[Intruder: colleague, colleague, please, colleague Bucan.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10227	Correct the quote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10228	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10229	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10230	Mr. President, I think it's a little misunderstanding. I didn't really lift it this hard, I was holding a plate like this, and I think I've done a job injury. So let me do it now, to explain where there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10231	How am I supposed to see from here? How am I supposed to see from here?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10232	It was, it was like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10233	What does that say? That's the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10234	Here, honourable representative Mr. Stazić constantly, I would say constantly with all my discussions hurting the Rules of Procedure and this time he did so on the basis of Articles 209 and 214 paragraphs 1 to 5. Namely, by discussing the agenda point, he presents details about the private life of a certain person who has not been even checked, he is not familiar with them, they are subject to the yellow press etc. I don't think that, in that way, these things talk about people, no matter who they are, can be the subject of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10235	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10236	Mr. President, it is incorrect that Mr. Stazic said that Minister Roncevic violated the law while Major Stipe Cacia was in the service of the Croatian Democratic Community campaign if he had already wanted to conceal the violation of the law and the responsibility of former Minister Željka Antunovic, who was at the time to justify the appointment of the president, I think he should have found some better way and more handsome, therefore, real if he had those responsible then it should have been Željka Antunovic, his colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10237	There you go. Let's move on to the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10238	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support amending and supplementing the laws in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, because this Law accurately prescribes the conditions to be met by the active military officer in order to be able to be proposed for retirement after the decision of the Supreme Commander. We can talk here today about how precise this is in one way or another, but in any case I can't help but look back at the previous two discussions in that context. One predecessor says we will not support the law and behind this talks about sublegal acts and this says that the HDZ Defence Minister did not adopt these sublegal acts and talks about 17 sublegal acts that were precisely not passed but was passed in 2000 and the deadline for the adoption of these sublegal acts was 6 months. Therefore, the minister who was then a minister, whether Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic or Mr. Jozo Rados, I do not know who he was at that time needed those post-laws brought in. Which does not mean that the current current current minister will not bring them in within a certain period, but surely within this 3 months, if he is in that place, it must have been very difficult. Secondly, when it comes to the predecessor who spoke on behalf of the SDP Club, he supported the adoption of the Law but talked about Mr Chachia afterwards. Well, they'd say, "Whom itches, there's a comb." Mr. Chachia, if it's a reason for a positive regulation and a good regulation, well, that's good, that's good. The fact that the minister didn't take advantage of all of her opportunities to law-abid, the necessary law to take measures, that's her problem, that's her problem. The government has found the strength to resolve Mr. Chachia as she called him, please, it would be bad if she insisted and remained stubborn about it, in that decision that was made. It's nothing abnormal, that's normal. We had an assistant minister in one ministry against whom a final verdict was passed, which was warned here in the Parliament. That's not why this man has been replaced, no conjecture has been tolerated, that's bad. That's bad! And to name a man and then change him, if necessary, that's good and that's the way to do it. What I'd say now is a little bit about the law. Of course, when we talk about first terms, it's a ten-year retirement period, but when we look at what other conditions he has to meet, then we can say that's okay. But the only thing that raises the question is whether the equivalent is given one distinction from a group of highlanders or, say, two monuments. Surely we can discuss this, but if we want to put all members of the Armed Forces in any way possible to come to that pension under certain conditions prescribed by this Law, then I think that Article 1 is as it is written to enable it. I believe that the President of the Republic will also see that the Council has passed the Law under which the Defence Minister should propose and the conditions to be met by the one proposed by it, not that the President of the Republic will pass that Law and decisions under that Law, but that he will also accept that it is an obligation to respect that Law and thus we will introduce the order, what we want and what we wanted by proposing that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10239	Well, Mr. Jarnjak has made several incorrect allegations. Previously, the First Law on Armed Forces Service will apply, the Defence Act was not passed in 2000 but in 2002. And I was saying that the deadlines had passed and that it would be wiser if the defence minister had warned the Prime Minister that regulations had not been passed so that all these regulations could be passed. Further, he said it was precise. There is nothing at all precise when we have seen for ourselves how it is, and as chairman of the Committee, he should take care of it, not defend something.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10240	Well, I have the impression that you were correcting something on behalf of the HDZ Club Mr. Jarnjak didn't say at all. When the law was passed, What year? [[Intruder: How did he not say?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10241	He said. You want to read the phonogram. He said the law was passed in 2000. It wasn't adopted in 2000, it was 2002, and I was saying that there are 50 sublaws to be passed. You understand? And in my speech, I was saying that it would be smarter if the defence minister had told the Prime Minister because the Prime Minister had acted wisely.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10242	That's what you said in your speech, and he didn't mention it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10243	Yeah, he mentioned it. Look at the phonogram.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10244	Dear Representative Jozo Radosh. [[I've got eyes, I've got ears, I see.]] Let's correct the actual allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10245	Mr. President, Mr. Representative Jarnjak said that the current, current law was passed in 2000, and this law was passed in spring 2002. Therefore, it is a correction to the incorrect assumption. But he wanted to say that he has no responsibility for the current minister. It does because for most of these regulations, it's about six months. Therefore, the current minister has been in office for four months, and it itself bears part of the responsibility for why these sublegal acts have not been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10246	On behalf of the IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. This time he'll be gone. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10247	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It has been repeated for several days that along with the text part of the law, a painting part could be freely set up to know what the individual law applies to in the picture. I would agree with my colleague, Jarnjak, who said that no matter what the occasion for making changes and supplements is, if they try to regulate something better, that it's a good thing to do so, so if Chachia is a cause, it's a good thing that this matter is tried to be regulated in a more correct way, normative and fairer, because it's one, one law in which retirement is determined under special conditions. We at the HSS Club think that this initiative is welcome and that I say right now we will support these amendments and amendments to the law. I would also make a small distinction between the debate on the role and place of the Government in the assessment and in the initiation of the pension procedure under special conditions and the position it has, the constitutional position of the institution of the president of the state. Such institutions exist everywhere in the world, and we in the HSS Club believe that it is a perfectly understandable place for the institution of the President of the Republic to have and by the nature of this particular discretionary option, while the Government, as well as proposing these amendments and additions, wants the executive power to be aware of the normative, legitimate and legal conditions, which I absolutely hope will adapt the President of the Republic in its capacity to propose to pension officers under special conditions under the Constitution and laws. This initiative, therefore, is good because those disturbances that have occurred and which may occur, in which the prime minister, or Government, is in this way, along with Article 1 as proposed, will be aware of the level that is acceptable. Those open questions that have been raised in terms of whether the minimum retirement period is 10 years as foreseen by this law or by the generally known legal of 15, we also hold that it is not crucial because this is a matter of specific matter means a matter regulated by a military person and held, and it is also a practice for other countries to regulate the provisions that specify the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Service Act in the Armed Forces. So let me conclude that we welcome this novel of this Law, and to the President, the institution of the President of the Republic should be left with those opportunities. Of course, the institution of the President of the Republic and the President of the Republic himself is always subject to and exposed to the morale of its decisions, to the public's assessment of those decisions, to the fairness of those decisions, and ultimately to this law in its own way will also be determined by the President of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10248	Thank you, dear colleague. It is on behalf of Club HSLS-Democratic Centre, respected counterpart Brletic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10249	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Democratic Centre and HSLS club will support this law. The proposed addition of the Law sets out the general and additional conditions that an active military person must fulfil in order to be proposed by the defence minister for retirement. Under the current legal provision, the minister was able to subscribe to the commander-in-chief a proposal for retirement, and that he... Each individual case thanks to specific merits or important reasons for conduct, submission of a proposal for so-called Presidential retirement left to the minister. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such a solution leaves the possibility of different approaches when deciding on the similarity of candidates for the presidential pension. From case to case and there was a possibility of abuse of authority. By supplementing Article 197,... Articles 2, 3 and 4 shall exclude the possibility of adopting arbitrary... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The criteria for all possible pensioners to be placed in the same position are harmonised as they must meet the criteria set out correctly. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The only objection to this amendment to the law was that there was, however, the possibility that the President of the Republic would continue in accordance with Article 197(1), Section 5 independently decides on the retirement of active military persons without precise criteria. This may mean that in the category of active military persons who are retired by the president, a milder or a different criterion can be applied. Therefore, this vote of the law should be considered by the government as an opportunity and justification that the criteria are equally common to all candidates, regardless of whether they are retired, the President alone or on a proposal from the defence minister. In this respect, the amendment complements the proposal. In the light of this amendment to the law, it may also be necessary to consider the provision of Article 5 of the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, and of disabled officials. Since that article also mentions retirement on the basis of the decision of the Supreme Commander. Perhaps that provision should be complemented in an appropriate manner or linked to this law. Finally, the proposed law is an improvement and can be supported with a possible argument by the Government on the accuracy of the criteria for cases where the president decides independently on retirement. It would also be interesting to get information on the number of presidential retirements and, if so, how much of it is lost on the president's own proposal and how much on the ministers' own. I must also mention the opinion of the defenders who say this law was built for the military elite. They ask the defenders where they are, because we didn't even know about the military elite because we were all defenders. We have a lot of lawyers and officers who have a very low pension and under this law could come in line for them to get a presidential pension and have the defence minister propose to them for such a pension. That case should have been considered in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10250	Thank you, dear colleague. It's next, dear colleague Jozo Radoš, on behalf of the Club of Representatives Libra. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10251	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I think we have a law in front of us that is absolutely unnecessary and that did not come about as a result of some political relations, so when they can't be properly solved, then they're looking for an exorcism in changing the law. And the law should be a thing that doesn't just change according to some kind of day-to-day political need. And to cover up the mistakes made by changing the law. Especially that defense law. This law is absolutely unnecessary law, because the existing law regulates existing matter sufficiently well and based on what is done by the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government decided. And this Law, if it is not used extensively, it will not actually cause any consequences and that confirms, of course, that this law itself is pointless. The law on pension and disability insurance of active military personnel, police officers and authorised officials has decided on the extent to which active military personnel have a stable benefit when they leave for retirement. And in my opinion, this law has been well-balanced by a well-balanced law, and it is, of course, in the function of rebuilding the defence ministry and potentially reducing the employees of the interior ministry. And that law is, in my opinion, the maximum possible benefit for the state to carry out that difficult reform to be given as a benefit when going into retirement of active military personnel. Therefore, the law is a regular administrative procedure whereby members of the armed forces can even be retired by police officers. The institution which has been responsible for the President of the Republic, with the right to propose or without the right or possibility, falls into a completely different category. It's an extraordinary measure and it can't be turned into a regular measure. Which is what this law looks like. This is a measure where the President of the Republic, or the Supreme Commander or the Minister of Defence, for some reasons that are not required and should not be explained, is sent to retirement by the most frequently active high-ranking military officer, because they no longer have the opportunity to find an adequate position in the armed forces. And then there's no need to explain anything and there's no need to respect any criteria. By proposing now you are an extraordinary measure that exists as a kind of traditional heritage in most armed forces, you have turned it into a regular administrative stalemate. And the team just expanded that law on pension insurance rights for active military personnel. Which, of course, was absolutely not supposed to be done because I think that law well affected the needs of the armed forces and the opportunities that the state can give in this regard. The democratic state is not in a position to give too high a privilege to members of any profession, nor to active military personnel, but some privileges in some circumstances of some of the benefits we have decided to give to this I think should have been done. Because we are, of course, a democratic country but still a country that is part of its situation in the armed forces actually pulling for war reasons. And that's why we're doing it if the government as a parliament as a state should put it that way. But this goes beyond all categories. First of all, why I said that this article is almost inconclusive or almost ineffective. Article 1(1) of the Additional Retirement Conditions shall be such that no one will be able to meet it. How could it be someone who has ten years of retirement and who has given one medal from a group of high places, or three medals from a group of order. You don't have any armed forces today, or you certainly don't have a person who can satisfy that condition, and the ossages less with the same criteria meet the second Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Active Military Persons according to this, and that additional criterion is actually less pointless in points 2, 3 and 4. Because there is already a law in which there is a law on the pension disability insurance of military personnel. So it's an unnecessary law. But what's worse than that is that I will, of course, repeat it, and that we are passing that law to cover up the mistakes made in the retirement process. So someone suddenly thought of it as the reason for the mistakes that were made that there were no criteria. There are critics in the existing law the criteria are the particular merits of improving the armed forces. Or another particularly important reason. And that's it, except that this criterion that exists and doesn't need to be removed from the law, maybe we should remove it because we are still a country that is ultimately democratically governing relations in that segment by military or police. But if he's going to stay, nothing needs to be added to him. It should only be used correctly. But you know that law was not properly applied, not only in the case of Major Chachia, but also in the case of retirement of some secretaries but not all secretaries. Some flight attendants, but not all flight attendants, some former intelligence, but not all former intelligence, and so on. Without any criteria and this law has meaning, i.e. that provision of the law makes sense. As I said, in some special circumstances when an active military person who does not have any kind of a negative sign on his career needs to retire because he is no longer, is no longer perspective in terms of the development of the Armed Forces, or the development of a career. So he can't move forward in rank or he can't go to a proper structural place, so then there's a great excuse that there's no criteria, and there's a criterion. Therefore, the only step forward in solving this problem would be to completely abolish this provision so that neither the defence minister nor the commander-in-chief have the right to do so. If this right is to be left in the law and it will be used in the right way, then only very rarely, not according to grandmothers and uncles as it was known to be, then that provision is quite sufficient. Provide credit for improving the armed forces or for other particularly important reasons and nothing more. So it's a shame to touch the law when we want to cover something that's wrongly done in everyday work. It's absolutely bad practice. We've been changing the laws too often and we should let it go. But if we want to change the law, then I suggest it would be a step forward, though radical but a step forward to fully abolishing that provision, and all of that concerning the retirement of active military personnel as legal, administrative proceedings is all regulated by the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, the Club of Representatives of Libra will not support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10252	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10253	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Representative Rados said that this law is only being passed to cover up some of the things that have been passed under the current law. That's not true. This law is passed precisely to determine when to whom to propose. Because this decision that is now in the law is so wide that everyone can interpret in their own way, each minister in their own way. In this way, by adopting such precise measures, it will not be possible to do exactly what MP Radoš says that so far it has been done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10254	Injury of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Rados. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10255	Mr. Representative Jarnjak injured the Rules of Procedure in the part in which he did not correct the incorrect allegations but actually corrected what I explained as an intention, or motivation of the motionor. It was therefore not a correction to the incorrect assumption, and he injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10256	But unfortunately, you said it, and my colleague Jarnjak corrected it. Therefore, it was a correction to the incorrect assumption. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS, dear colleague Srecko Ferenčak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10257	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia... The Law on the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which prescribes the conditions under which the defence minister will propose the retirement of active military personnel following the decision of the Supreme Commander. This law lays down specific conditions and criteria that must be met by an active military person in order for the defence minister to propose a retirement which would allow the active military person to acquire the right to an age pension before the prescribed conditions are met. The representatives of the HNS and PGS Club support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia because it creates a legal basis for selectively proposing the retirement of active military personnel, i.e. those which meet the prescribed criteria and on the basis of the decision of the Supreme Commander. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10258	Thank you, dear colleague. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is a respected colleague, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10259	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is not possible to disprove a fact which is too clear that the proposing proposes this amendment to the Bill on Service in the Armed Forces. I would not say, however, to cover up a specific situation that was so much concerned, we may be more boring about it, the public knows a lot about it than simply to find an excuse again through the law, I would say about what can't be covered up, about some knowledge, or ignorance in certain circumstances, so in paragraph 1, in the last paragraph, it is precisely a reflection of the situation of a particular case. It is good when a proponent, but also the legislator himself listens to what happens in life in reality as the public reacts. I am, of course, saying that neither the promoter nor the legislator can stay in the process of adopting and proposing and passing a law to remain deaf, silent, blind to what I say is happening in reality. However, with this bill of law, we are essentially groping for specific cases without a single systematic vision and without further determinations of precision that might still be the situation, or then one of those universal norms could continue to think a little further than a specific case. I think that the proposer is really obsessed with concrete cases and how to get out of this, so it could be said that even when it interferes with particularly important reasons or find another norm that is often in such concrete situations. Therefore, this proposal, regardless of how it is to support it, is nevertheless doing further transparency and strengthening of the system of legality and determination, but we cannot take the impression that precisely because the promoter did not go one step further, that he is here and in this particular situation is not an expression of a rational policy but an expression of yet one order that was frightened of the public, the public court which is also good and as an expression of fear for ruling positions precisely because of such a mood of the public. However, it is not necessary to interfere with the mind, so that here and from the club it seems to me that the HDZ is relevant to, or using the Replica Institute, it is said right here that the proposer had in mind exactly the precision of the arrangement as much as it was in some way and certain, but still transparent to determine the conditions when such a person could be proposed for retirement to the President of the Republic, and even yesterday we discussed two laws, the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of the State Agency for the Insurance of Savings and Rehabilitation of Banks and the Proposal for Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financial Agency, and all by an urgent procedure, where all the precise criteria set out in the existing law are annulled as completely unconditional, because there is also an explanation of the Government's proposal that all situations are not possible. So we're pulling some sort of explanation out of the supermarket, when we need it there, we don't need it, and here because of this particular case, we need it as precisely as possible because we're justifying ourselves, it wasn't precise enough in the law, so that's what we're doing with this proposal. And to remove directors, directors of agencies, management, we don't need any criteria, but everything also under an excuse, by justifying great concern for precision. Of course, no legal certainty can be developed anywhere because it depends on the consistency of one law, but equally consistency, i.e. legal certainty, the basic prerequisite of this is the consistency and coherence of all laws. Unfortunately, that's not the case. In order to take over, however, part of my responsibility and improve this text, the proposing should really consider moving away from this particular case and continue to propose another item. So it's possible that other situations might arise, perhaps, most strongly, where neither criminal proceedings nor punitive procedures are being conducted, but something that can be quickly converted into that or some other situation that would certainly condemn the public and then again, would certainly be discussing subsequent changes and additions again, and concrete conditions would be streamlining. That's why I think the proposer should add such an item. There were also talks to reduce both the powers and the president, but no one's powers are diminished if one of the rules of the game are envisaged in a transparent way. And the responsibility is precisely for the one who finally makes decisions. The President of the Republic, his duties are also laid down by the Constitution and we have one other general norm which, if so and others, is, therefore, duties and powers which are not laid down, or which are prescribed by individual law. Therefore, here, we can only remember the Law of Compassion as one Constitutional Authority of the President, but often in the public were criticised decisions on pardoning because no, some transparent conditions were laid down, and these conditions and criteria were always necessary precisely for the sake of public control. And I can say, whenever they were respected that whether someone liked it or not, they did not suffer criticism in public. And that's why I think that through this law, we are, in fact, helping the one who finally makes it, and proposing these powers that have been laid down by law, and also to the President himself of the Republic who makes the final decision. So, when those criteria are well marked. So I support this law, and I think that, I say, once again, the proposer would have to think and move away from a particular case and think a little bit about this general formulation because again, just now, as my colleague Radoš said, that it had been consciously approached and the existing Law was sufficient, but obviously we sometimes needed the laws to look like the picturebook, where almost everything was fixed. But then he threatens further danger to be a hard norm once again where one case outside of all of these will bounce, and therefore one general clause would not be a waste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10260	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10261	Well, there's an esteemed representative who claims that replacements don't need criteria. I don't know which time and on behalf of my colleagues I remind you it's not 2000 and 2001. That we will still respect the essential criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10262	Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10263	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Not entering the occasion for which this amendment was proposed and the addition of the Law, whether it is a recent past or perhaps a need for the future because of the rationalisation of the Croatian Army and to pass a law that will speed up a part of the members of the Croatian military to go into retirement and thus to streamline the operation. It is good that yesterday, with the agreement of the proposing representatives, we accepted instead of the emergency process the first reading. Namely, why? If we had accepted an emergency procedure, there would probably be serious reasons for this law not to be passed, and this is how there is space, the possibility that this law, until the second reading, will be significantly improved and worked out, that is, to achieve the goal and purpose for which it is proposed. First, let me note that the title of the law does not correspond to its contents. The proposal, i.e. the title of the law as you can see, reads: "the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia" and the law itself does not change anything but only complements Article 197 behind paragraph 1, or 2. I have to say that's one less important formal reason, but he should be mentioned, too. However, it is far more important that the content of the bill does not satisfy the objective and purpose it aims to achieve. Namely, Article 1 of this Proposal for a Law which goes beyond: "Minister of Defence for Retirement referred to in paragraph 1 of subparagraph 5.", it is an article 197 of the applicable Law, in fact, what needs to be done. The law should also discuss how retirement can be carried out on a proposal from the Minister, i.e. by a decision of its own or by an independent decision of the President of the State in two cases. One is the case when it comes to particularly responsible for improving the Armed Forces and another is, another important reason. What's supposed to happen now? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The conditions for 6 months are added at least in the Homeland War, 10 years of active military service and, of course, proposals for different honours. Let us remind you of some things after all. One contribution is a particularly well-deserved essence, a point due to the promotion of the Armed Forces, and the other is to be a 10-year staff to have in the military. It may happen in those 10 years that someone can contribute to the improvement of the Armed Forces, but certainly by the very act of being in the military for 10 years is not that evidence. The second question that is quite and certainly important to note is, of course, important as a fact of patriotism and self - consciousness and patriotic merit for participation in the Homeland War. But what about the people who couldn't because of their military schedule and schedule to participate in the Homeland War? Will this law not apply to them? In addition, it turns out that this law applies only to persons who could participate in the Homeland War, will not be applied in the future to active military personnel. Thus, these six months should certainly be turned into a different criterion that discusses the specific contribution to the improvement of the Armed Forces, not this issue. Now there's a special problem when it comes to medals. There is a special Law on Features, which speaks of what and why a special distinction is given to one of the individuals. And if we accept this solution that the medals are one of the conditions that someone can retire, then we would want or would not actually admit that for the same act, the same act of a responsible person. Most of them got a medal because it was responsible for a piece, actually two rewards. This would be unacceptable unless in one exceptional case, when it comes to the benefit of medals for the special improvement of the Armed Forces. Therefore, this should be taken into account and all these criteria mentioned here can be additional criteria, but there cannot be any conditions. They must be developed, conditions must be laid down differently that will allow the development of criteria for the specific improvement of the Armed Forces or other, other important cases. Of course, it is important here to point out something else to devalue and the Law on Features, and only honours, because we want to or not want to, a large number of members of the Armed Forces would demand or try to ask for additional distinctions when this law enters into force, which would only cause inflation of distinctions or rather one other wave of attempts to actually be one noble and society-organised recognition in all social communities and states, in fact, turn into something else, which is not the very purpose. And because of that, I personally think that this question must also be asked differently, elaborated differently. Now, there's something else that matters. The law of distinction is lex specialis, a special law against all general laws. I've never read it in a law I've never read in one that I've compared to nor our law does it exist, nor in any other law in the world that medals are given in order for someone to retire, to retire. It's not there. The distinction is not and cannot be a criterion and a criterion for a person to go to retirement. For all these reasons, it is obvious that it is necessary to materially and formally correct this bill until the second reading and it will have to deviate from its contents set here. After all, there is something else he has put in place as a new bill. He introduced new comparisons and seeking equivalents between individual sets of decorations, although that is not possible under the law. Everyone's different to themselves. Therefore, it is clear that such a bill could hardly be accepted. And one more thing, compared to the citizens, other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The question arises, if one category of citizens, regardless of the professional calling and occupation they are engaged in, are the criteria and conditions for retirement, why would any other category of citizens not be the same? BY WHAT, for example, a teacher who was in the Homeland War or who was responsible for the development of culture, etc. got some kind of medal, either a Homeland Thanksgiving or, say, a grandeur, etc. You wouldn't have the same benefit of being decorated when he's leaving for retirement? This shows that in fact not all citizens would be equal before the law. Why am I alleging these examples? Because I want to help the Proposer to understand that it is better to pass the law and to elaborate these two criteria as set out in paragraph 1 of Article 197(5), in order for the law to be applied then, if rules or other implementing rules have not been passed, then the law should be regulated, but this cannot be regulated as proposed, because this is obviously the very opposite of itself, and will also cause dissatisfaction after the law has been implemented in part, and then we will have to ask that this same law is actually changed, because it will cause dissatisfaction with others. And secondly, he would obviously be so-called. a targeted law that is passed only because of a certain group of citizens, due to a certain moment, due to the rationalisation of the Croatian Army, and this would be wrong and because of those who need to go to retirement and for the sake of the Croatian Army itself, I believe that the second reading needs to be made, to develop these two criteria set out in subparagraph 5, these are a particular contribution, i.e. to improve the armed forces, to list which are other important reasons, and for those who have and can be found, legally established in the bill, to adopt the law and to resolve it, but not in this way as provided for here, because this is bad for those who would retire, for those who would enforce the law, for those who would be in charge, whether this party or not. In the end, it would be bad because it would create dissatisfaction, so, if you want to, among other citizens, in relation to this category, this group of citizens to whom this law would apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10264	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. I'm asking my colleague Arlovich to take over.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10265	Can I start before shift or after? The Honorable President and the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. I think that whenever there are some misunderstandings about the implementation of a law and there is a danger that certain provisions of the law are misused, there is a need to specify it, supplement or to clearly determine its application. Yes, if we depart from that assumption, then there is indeed a need to take paragraph 1 of Article 197. The Act of Service in the Armed Forces makes it more clear. However, my view is that this entry, this text at all, in Article 197 should not stand in the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces, and that in fact this bill that we have on the benches may be a good matter for discussion, but it is a failed law. This should all be regulated by the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Employees and Authorised Officials, not by the Armed Forces Act, since the Law on the Service of Armed Forces regulates the way in which the service itself is appointed and resolved, and in no way regulates or should not regulate the rights of a pension basis only one category of military persons and that category of military persons according to the way of retirement and that of military persons according to a special mode of retirement. I therefore believe that the applicant should withdraw this law and refer to the procedure a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Rights of Pensions Insurance of Active Military Persons and Official Authors where all rights and obligations, i.e. the rights and obligations of the pension relationship of military persons, are regulated. In addition, Article 5 of that Law, which does not change, states that, on the basis of the decision of the Supreme Commander, an active military person who has particular merits for the promotion of the armed forces, that is, if there is another particularly important reason, the military service may suspend the right to retirement prior to the fulfilment of the conditions for the acquisition of the rights laid down by this law and the Pension Insurance Act. Therefore, one indent of Article 197 is almost prescribed. Article 6 of the same law, cited by the law, states that, on the basis of the decision of the Secretary-General, i.e. the head of the Office of National Security on the termination of the service of an insurance undertaking, an insurance undertaking may exercise the right to an age pension, regardless of the years of life when it completes a retirement period of at least 30 years, of which at least 15 years of retirement duty, or of the jobs where the internship is counted with an increased duration under the provisions of this Act. So we have a presidential pension and we have a ministerial pension. Where the President's pension is twice regulated, Article 197 is once only taxed as power. And here it is rewritten into this law twice, where it is said that it may appear on the basis of the decision of the Supreme Commander, but it can also be done on the basis of the Minister's decision, obviously for the same reasons where it is said here in the Presidential Retirement that it is due to merit or other reasons, and on the basis of the decision of the Minister in charge, it can be done because of the need for service, therefore there can be this particular other important reason. In which the minister has a 30-year-old plus 15 criterion, and the president has so far had no criteria. So, if there is such a need to specify the criteria, then it is certainly a place in the Pension Insurance Rights Act, not in the Armed Forces Service Act, because I think we are making a mistake to specify this precise in this law the way of retirement of one category, not the way of retirement of one category, but the President's ability to retire a part of the members of the armed forces. And that's why I think it would be wise to regulate it in a law that is. And now a few words about the criteria themselves. It is certainly necessary to define the criteria, which should first and foremost compare the criteria for the president to the criteria for which the minister can do so, so the minister can now do so if someone is 30 years old, 30 years of retirement and 15 years of retirement in office. And here we have a situation to say that someone can have a minimum of 10 years of retirement duty without saying that it has to be on any duty. So it could be a nine-year internship in somewhere in civilization to say it's a year's worth in the Armed Forces. The same as it does not define how many of the 32 years of retirement training should be held in the Armed Forces and how much it must be carried out on duty. It is assumed that the criterion that at least 4 years of age must have been "existed" is that of those 10 years, 32 or 35 years of age, should be in the service of the Armed Forces and not even on certain duties that are particularly important. Therefore, it should be specified that this year's internship is likely then related to the service in the Armed Forces. Second. It is illogical that such a possibility is given to the dying, therefore, of persons of particular importance, who contributed specifically to the development of the Armed Forces but at the same time said that in the last 4 years it should have been "extended". The highest score in the Armed Forces is "extremely high". Therefore, if someone has contributed specifically to the development of the Armed Forces, then it is assumed that not only in the last four years, but throughout the time he spent in the Armed Forces, he had the highest rating possible. Because if someone was 10 years old, low grade, "extended" or lower, and then only 4 years of age had not the highest grade, the grade therefore, "extends" and not particularly stands out, then the question is how could this "particularly" contribute to the development of the Armed Forces. Furthermore, the question arises as to why this 6-month criterion is to participate in the Homeland War and whether it really refers only to a generation of people who work in the Armed Forces and who have had the opportunity to participate in the Homeland War. So, what about all those who came in, they joined the Armed Forces after the storm was over when, say, after or after 1. 1. In 96 when participation in the Homeland War no longer counts. What's illogical and there's no explanation is why it's been said to be a minimum internship for 10 years and then jumps right into 32 years, so there's no 20 or 22 or 18, but they're 32 years old and 35 years old. And it's illogical that the inversion is so, the less internship you have, you have to have more medals, and the more internships you have, you have to have less medals. It usually makes sense that if you have more internships, you have more medals, and if you have less internships, you have less medals. And it's illogical that someone with a 10-year internship could have, for example, three medals from a group of ranks. If we look at the Decoration Act, then it's almost impossible in 10 years to get those three medals, because they only have, if we don't share them, we don't share them with a hand and a hat. Furthermore, the question arises as to what is the compatibility of this law with the law, with pension reform. Because a large part of the armed forces' employees, I'm guessing, are paying off the second and third pillars of pension insurance today. What will happen to their accumulated savings in the second pension column, that is, what will happen to what they did in the third pension column. So there are a whole series of issues that need to be resolved not only when it comes to the issue of presidential retirement, in this case, but I think it is much more important, much clearer, and Article 6. The Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons and Authorised Officials as here, too, are on very vague criteria of the prescribed possibility, therefore, of the Minister, or the upcoming National Security Office, to regulate when someone will cease their internship in the Armed Forces under the discretionary law of the Minister, or the head of the Office. And finally, I personally advocate that the president should not have such authority, I think the president should have the authority to appoint and resolve officers in the Armed Forces and that everything else should be regulated by the Pension Insurance Act and should be in the power of the defence minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10266	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. It's time for a respected colleague, Antunovic. Here you go. My colleague Antunović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10267	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. My thoughts on this Law differ greatly from most of the discussions I have heard and my thoughts on this Law, i.e. an institute that is suddenly trying to resolve this amendment and supplementation of the law, is actually Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. My thoughts on this Law differ greatly from most of the debates I have heard, and my thoughts on this Law, or the institute that suddenly tries to resolve this amendment and supplementation of the law, is actually the closest I've ever heard to what my colleague Jozo Radoš said to this legal text. And I don't think that's weird at all because I think we share very similar, close experiences and that that's why we think about all of this, what there are really different opinions we think about in the most similar way. We in Croatia have a very bad habit. When a person breaks or disobeys some laws, instead of sanctioning those who break or do not comply with the laws, we pretend to be ignorant and decide to amend or supplement the laws, to specify the legal provisions that were clear in themselves. And we're actually staring at that bad trait that we're not able to deal with bad guys who don't respect the law, whose laws mean nothing, who treat laws like that with some excuse for others but not for them. And instead of sanctioning those who act like that, we spend once more time and money to allegedly repair some legal provision. In fact, this text is completely unnecessary. We can discuss here whether an institution under which the Supreme Commander can retire an active military person without any criteria under the conditions they write in the law is particularly responsible for the formation or development of the Armed Forces or for some other reasons that can be truly different. And we can discuss whether this institute should be fully removed. But if we have decided and we have decided not to in this but in the previous assembly of Parliament that such an institute exists and that the commander-in-chief, not the President of the Republic, but the commander-in-chief has such authority, then I think it is ridiculous, unnecessary and completely demagogue to establish some additional criteria, and it is especially funny to relate to pension rights that apply to some completely different categories of people and in some completely different conditions. I have indeed wondered and read and sought according to this law and tried to find out why, even so, in such a quick way, it decided to go with a proposal to supplement these provisions of the Law of Service in the Armed Forces. The fact is that the commander-in-chief has recently been brought into a very awkward situation by a case of retirement of a major in the institute. Most likely, he was a little deluded and seduced or uninformed because the suggestion that came to him was probably falsely reasoned. This case is most likely due to what, in this case, someone or government has decided to amend this Law as a proposer. Someone was probably working on that text, and I know people who are professionals who are usually preparing these texts, and I don't think they're behind this text at all and that there's a clean policy behind it. I really, like my colleague Rados, think that this legal text should cover something ugly that happened, something ugly that marked me, I would say, politically uglyly marked the party in power, but I don't think it matters to me, and I think the retirement case so that the withdrawal of Major Chachia's pension is not interesting because he was so he stopped being an assistant minister, which he got an honorary pension, so she was later withdrawn but was characteristic and important because of something else. That major doesn't deserve any pension. Not according to the Pension Insurance Act, not according to the Service Act, about the service in the armed forces. He doesn't deserve just the honoral so-called. Presidential pension than it deserves an unworthy discharge and that is what the major could and should have been given only under Croatian laws. And all those who have failed to apply the law in Article 196 who say that the active military person was he a soldier or the highest general after 5 days of not showing up at work gets a dishonest discharge. They all deserve to be called, to answer for which reason one major who is not even a small act in the armed forces, which is why they did not order this Major to be granted an honorable discharge, but was proposed and deceived by the Supreme Commander for such an honorary pension. An honorary pension that I think should remain in the Law of Service in the Armed Forces, and I think the possibility of abuse of that institute is so small, so small, it's really almost meaningless to discuss it. We're the country that just got out of the war. We are a country where many have become soldiers by force. We are a country where many have earned military credit in this war and we are a country that will be able to apply this institute honestly and honestly for a while if we are honest and honest people. If we apply the law. The kind that's completely enough. However, if we're going to pretend unsuspecting, if we're going to ask to carry out tight procedures that take months to prove irrefutable facts like the fact that Major Chachi simply hasn't been on sick leave for months but hasn't come to work. He took a public picture. In doing so, his superiors kept a record of it. It's almost all clean. Every other soldier, every other officer would have received an unworthy discharge, but was not given to Major Chachi. Major Cacchi was from the same ministry, of those same commanders, of the same minister proposed for an honorary pension. And now all of this should introduce some quasi criteria. All of this should make it impossible for someone who truly belongs and has the right to receive such an honorary pension, to cover one bad soldier, one bad man, one wicked officer. His case needs to be solved by an impious discharge. And I'm very sorry, I have here a letter signed by Prime Minister Sanader, in which he is also acting ignorantly, in which the same major allegedly esculates that he is not in charge of a strict procedure to violate his participation in the political campaign. Well, that's not a big deal. It's a matter of political evaluations and an assessment of whether or not we're going to sanction such things. But can we let someone not come to work for months, that there are records about it, and that everyone is deafening it, and also the prime minister after I've introduced him to the fact that it's something that doesn't need to be explored, something that doesn't need to be proved but something that's an irrefutable fact. And because of all of that, I just think that this, this text of the bill is completely unnecessary, that we should remain the solution until further notice. That the Law on the Service of Armed Forces needs to be corrected and amended because of experience and practice in application during these few months which have been shown but should not go with such unnecessary and bad amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10268	Thank you, dear colleague Antunović. We've got a replica first, my fellow Bitumen here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10269	Mrs. Antunovic said on several occasions and used the term that the commander-in-chief of the armed forces and the president of the state was deceived. And not once or twice. Because she was a minister at the time, so I'm interested in who was misleading him? And what you, Mrs. Antunovic, were doing at the time when you were a minister and allowed the president of the armed forces to be in, and the system deceived and brought into that position. And as for Mr. Chachia that he took his picture, he is a man handsomely, so he was not photographed but photographed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10270	Thank you. Reply to the replica of counterpart Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10271	Well, of course I'll answer you and very precisely. You'll be a little surprised maybe. The Commander-in-chief was deceived after I stopped being a minister because the motion for the honorable retirement of Mr. Cacia came to Chief Commander 31.12. I'm well informed. At the very year-old, it had to happen that Mr. Chachia would not lose any additional privileges he should have gained with it. And I stopped being Minister 23.12. So I didn't talk to the president about it, and I didn't need to talk about it, because what I insisted on after I was familiar with the Chachi case, and after I saw that the full two months didn't come to work, I asked the Chief of Staff, the Chief of Staff, and in writing, there are written clues to you in order to carry out an honorable discharge procedure. However, because Mr. Cacia was high-ranking, he had a strong background in the Prime Minister himself, no one in the army dared, and that is the weakness of our generals, and on top of that, the new minister who had all the papers as well as I had before him was under someone's influence or on his own initiative, he proposed to the president the honorary retirement. So I've done everything possible to get an impious officer fired, but after me, someone's done everything possible to get an honorary pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10272	It's a nice correction to an incorrect quote. Dear colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10273	... A long earlier incorrect correction of the wrong quote when his colleague Mršić spoke and this was related to Mr Mršić's situation did not understand the intensity. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This applies to that variant of ten years of active military service that is the first condition and then has a cumulative condition. So you're having that further discussion. And speaking of who suggested the retirement of General Stipetic's secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10274	Thank you very much for the correction. Correction of the incorrect quote, dear colleague Luka Bebić, vice president of the House, please choose your colleague Luke.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10275	Mrs. Antunovic's claim that Mr. Sanader had not taken the wrong decision or made the wrong decision to unrepentantly fire Major Cacia. She used what I could name, and I came up in half a debate with a word of defiance 15 times. Which shows that the lady is very easy to handle with the word "dignity." I'm asking her a question if Major Chachi didn't come to work for two months, and you're the Secretary of Defense, so you asked the Chief of Staff or I don't know who to take care of. What you did according to the Chief of Staff or an officer who didn't want to solve it, and if you weren't able to do anything as defence minister, you were powerless, which you didn't resign as defence minister. Because you didn't perform your duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10276	You yourself said that you did not correct your respected colleague's incorrect allegations because you said that you yourself were asking the questions of Commissioner Antunovic and not correcting the incorrect allegations. I ask you not to do it anymore because it is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Here are colleagues Antunović's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10277	Mr. Luka Bebić injured Rules of Procedure in 209 and got a pretty nice opportunity to allegedly call me that I didn't do anything. But I'm protesting such an act, and I don't have the opportunity to answer right now, but I answered. I have done everything but unfortunately fear of your policy is stronger than honor and reputation of Croatian generals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10278	It's your honorary colleague's turn. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10279	... who systematically insults and provokes in this House, and what he's saying, we've seen, for example, health care, were all blanks. [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10280	I have to tell my colleague that you didn't say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured. I must say further that you are looking for a warning and you are warning my colleague Antunovic that you cannot hold the presidency. And I have to say the third day is an insult to what my colleague said because she said that fear of politics is a matter of finding an opinion. But it's not an insult, if it were an insult, I'd be acting already. It's my dear colleague Kresimir's turn. Injury to another Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10281	... that my edge is here because of 30,000 active military personnel who are common rags compared to one Major Chachia. [[Speech is not enabled]] Or you'd want it to be that way. And I can't let that happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10282	I think you've abused the Institute both by using the Institute's injuries. And second of all, what I think about is that you emotionally performing in fact in the management of replicas and pollen used words that you don't need to hear in this hall. Not in such a context, especially this last one, that soldiers compare themselves to rags. That doesn't make sense. Please don't put any pressure on the President's desk. Comrade Cosic, please have a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10283	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. There is no doubt that after such discussions and after all that has happened over the past years, especially in the past years, we need to change and complement the regulations on the service in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, which will be an icon that will be long-term that will be acceptable to everyone who works and works in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, after all, will be able to plan their professional career. All that has been happening to these people in recent years is that they did not really deserve in a country that, unfortunately, cannot prove to this segment that it represented a regulated rule of law. So we need a clear criterion of the criteria that will last, that people will respect and not what we had. And in that sense, we should welcome this initiative with all the remarks that I will say more later. Certainly these amendments and additions to the law on the service of the armed forces must primarily take into account the contribution of all those who during the Homeland War created the Republic of Croatia. It is necessary to continue to take into account limited financial opportunities. It also needs to be taken into account during this transitional period and certain needs relating to the restructuring of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. But first of all, I said we needed constant standards and the criteria for them were long awaited, and that's why the events were happening. Different. Unfortunately, at least of all these cases are Major Chachia's cases. There have been far more difficult cases that have never been heard of which they have not even talked about, and therefore I believe that these kinds of discussions in one serious institution are inadmissible. It's unacceptable when you talk about a government budget deficit that one person says no and the other says yes. Well, gentlemen, there's an institution if we're not able to do it ourselves, take a certain agency and pay it and it'll tell you what's true. Thus, Major Chachia is indeed a minor insignificant case which this moment receives those ratios unacceptable so that many other important problems of a more difficult character and this one is forgotten. And here's taking care of this concrete proposal to amend and supplement the service law in the armed forces, I'd like to say a few words. Certainly before that I would like to emphasise very soon we will also have a debate on the situation in the armed forces that was accepted at the last session of the Parliament, and then we should give this Parliament clear statistics on the number of retired persons, retired generals by which criteria, and by which standards. I think it's important that we have unique standards and criteria for everything. There is no reason for the President of the Republic or the Supreme Commander to have greater rights than those adopted in the Croatian Parliament as the highest legislative body of the Republic of Croatia. I can't, by discretionary law, retire some secretaries yes and some not. This was not discussed, and this did not take on such political proportions as the case of Chachi. But let us move on to a concrete bill. Among the general conditions, the need for a minimum of 10 years of military service is stressed. This is not very normal, but given the circumstances that we are in one transition period and would like to get to a stable structure of the Armed Forces that will have at individual level their predictable life cycle, ten years hence the active military service. The additional conditions spoken of, and I think that's what deserves attention, refer to the following. A minimum retirement rate of 10 years additional and then goes one set of alternative criteria that I don't think are acceptable and not justified. Can not get folder: %s: %s So one medal from the group of high-rises. Greater from a group of highlanders belonging to the great King Tomislav with Lent and Great Danica, Queen Jelena with Lent and Danica, King Peter Kresimir, etc. said a recent HSP representative, the esteemed Mr. Pero Kovacevic, that these qualities are only three people and these three people are retired. The question, therefore, is how justified and how meaningful this criterion is. It makes sense, because when it comes to minimum duration and minimum retirement experience, we need to have strong criteria and conditions in terms of contributing to the creation of the Republic of Croatia through this kind of medal. However, these traits of a type of high order are equated with three traits from a group of ten, no matter how many people, but further means these criteria are set in the following way, either a grand order or three rows, and in the end they come to the most important one, or the two Remembrances of the Homeland War are assigned. Gentlemen, these medals of the Homeland War Memorial and the Memorial of Homeland Gratitude have thousands of people. In particular, as Mr Kovacevic said, there are 420 thousand people in the Homeland War Memorial, and 25 thousand people in the Communion of Homeland Gratitude. Thus, through these criteria set alternatively or – or – or, we simply create conditions that 25,000 people can, with the praise of the Supreme Commander, obtain the right to be proposed by the Minister for Retirement. Next again, or refers to a condition, two monuments and one participation in peacekeeping missions. This is not acceptable and it is not clear whether these criteria are restrictive, if they were restrictive, then everything else would be in order and order, or if these criteria were non-restrictive, and then they would be extended to either two monuments and commendation by the Supreme Commander or two monuments and one participation in peace operations. It is not clear what the goal was, and I would conclude in the end the following. It is very important that this bill is in the first reading, and I think that is why it is also very important that the Prime Minister's decision that this bill be completed until the second reading, and that it be what not only should be done to Croatian defenders, not only Croatian officers and active military personnel, but to all of us as the basis of a regulated rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10284	Thank you, dear colleague. Final five minutes on behalf of the HSP Club esteemed colleague... Excuse me. It was a replica. You have the right to be a colleague of Matusic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10285	Mr. Vice President, I was encouraged by my colleague, Cosic, when he said the case was minor. Not only is the case of the Chachia minor he is also a Benigan, but he is today with very clear reasons here in this House of Highs being apostrophe. Namely, the apostrophe of the Chachia case obviously wants to cloud the public's view of the former government's criminal actions, so what appears today in a daily newspaper in the "New List" where the State's Attorney's Office and USKOK are called and they are asked what was done to determine why.tax bonds had to suffer on their back 700 million kunas that would fail at the "Vicor Lenac Shipyard". So the case of Chachia is now used to cloud the public's eyes about the key problems of this country. Crime should also be investigated in the Victor Lentz you spent in both "Ina" and other institutions you spoke of yourself. However, today it is important to apostrophe the case of Cacia for the reason that you are familiar with it only to hide from the public who are the real problems of the Croatian state and what are the problems facing the Croatian Government who, let's be honest, very successfully solved the case of Cacia and the epilogue is very clear, unlike your government, which, for example, was held by the person who was legally convicted as assistant or deputy minister as we had the opportunity to hear it here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10286	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Based on what's-his-name. You have the right to speak in the Croatian Assembly, but on the basis of Article 214. You have no right to insult other MPs who were members of the government until yesterday, and today they are MPs. You have addressed them and therefore, in accordance with Article 214(1), I give you a warning. Please, fellow Kovacevic. Here you go. What's the injured colleague?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10287	The Rules of Procedure were injured in Articles 213 and 214 and I request the opinion of the Committee on...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10288	In which respect Articles 213 and 214 were injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10289	He was hurt in a sense because I wasn't insulting anyone but I was giving the exact facts that were...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10290	No, no. You told a colleague what you could check in the Rules of Procedure, in a phonogram of the parliamentary debate that the former government was involved in crime and you turned to the MPs who are in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10291	No, it's not true. That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10292	Look at the phonogram.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10293	I ask that it be determined exactly what I said and I ask for the opinion of the Constitution Committee and the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10294	I don't mind that the Constitutional Committee determines what to do, to determine exactly what is said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10295	I'm asking to determine exactly what was said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10296	I don't mind. The Constitutional Committee within 24 hours has the right to determine that, and you remember what you say and take care of what you say, the phonogram will show everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10297	You haven't exactly reinterpreted me and I'm asking you to...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10298	I don't have anything to reinterpret you, it says in the phonogram, it will be established by the Constitution Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10299	I'm looking on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club for a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10300	Whether the HDZ Club is looking for a break I'm asking the club president. ... [[Intruder: Yes.]] Please nice, I'm asking the club president if the club is looking for a break. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10301	Five-minute stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10302	Thank you very much. I'm setting a five-minute break. Here you go. ... Yes, go ahead. [[Home is not saved.]] Comrade Matušić has his word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10304	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, we are protesting the behaviour of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament and we are looking for a later reminder of Mrs. Zeljka Antunović's statements that Croatian soldiers and generals are more afraid of ours, HDZ policies than they are of their reputation and honor. We are also looking for a warning that Croatian soldiers are rags. The Croatian Democratic Community Club also finds it totally unwarranted to give notice by the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, me as an agent because in my resignation we found no argument that it was any insult already the opposite. My intention was to point out that today's apostrophe and re-emphasis of the Cacia case, in fact, is trying to turn the public's eyes away from the real problems that lie ahead of this Government and this Croatian Assembly, and as I mentioned today in one of the daily papers, I will say more specifically now in the "New List", where they are certain interested in the case of the Lenca Shipyard and called and called the Croatian Government, but also USKOK and the State Attorney's Office which are working on the case of the "Vicor Lenac" Shipyard where it is quite clear that according to their claims today, publicly presented in the media, 700 million kunas, Croatian kunas burden the state budget. Finally, or taxpayers, or Croatian citizens. So, my intention was to point out to you that by pointing out the case of Chachi which has actually been exploited for the past four months and in a certain way, the lives of opposition parties are being maintained through this case which is actually benign and minor, as I said, because in fact, in the decisions of the Croatian Government, that case has ended. Unlike some other cases where I've met, or reminded you that you're in the places of assistant state minister, people who have been convicted by power, therefore, with the rightful judgments and you've done nothing. So that was the intention, and in those intentions, if someone as a representative of the Croatian government who today's representative recognized in some works, I really didn't intend to do any parallelism or bring them together, those two. But today I think and I think that what someone did as a minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and if it is related to certain actions that need to be sanctioned, it should be done. So, that was my intention, because the Croatian Democratic Community Club is seeking the position and opinion of the Parliamentary Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure on the proceedings of the chairman, current vice-president of the Croatian Parliament, because we consider it an unwarranted statement of notice. And once again I say, we are looking for a later statement of notice for the statements of Ms. Antunovic's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10305	Thank you, thank you very much, dear colleague. I recall again that in the case of counterpart Antunovic and the polemic who was around the replicas and correcting the incorrect allegations between counterpart Antunovic, MP of this House, counterpart Luke Bebić, that there were both sides of the use of words and that I drew attention to both of them not to do so. I also warned others that in the future they did not commit or abuse the institution of violation of the Rules of Procedure or of the Institute of Replica, or correction of an incorrect allegation. And now let me repeat it one more time and quote what you, a respected colleague, have said. I'll only quote two sentences. I quote: "By apostrophe of the case, Cacci obviously wants to cloud the public's view of your authority's criminal activities," and you have turned to counterpart Antunovic. Second case. "You need to be questioned," please. It's a quote. I'm quoting from a phonogram. ... Phonogram of the Croatian Parliament. [[The speakers speak out loud, the intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me, colleagues and colleagues. At this point, I chair, I have a phonogram, I have a phonogram, and that's why it was a pause because you know that when a break is decided that the chair is entitled to act properly, it requires a phonogram. The second quote: "Crime should also be investigated in the "Vicor Lenco" that you conducted in both the INA and other institutions you spoke of yourself," point. My dear colleague, for all of these, such difficult words that you have offended, among other things, the honourable representatives, I have given you a warning on the basis of Article 214, and I agree with the proposal of the HDZ Representatives' Club that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system will examine whether my warning was in place for you, but it can now be said by our public on the basis of what I have quoted. Here you go, buddy, damage to the Rules of Procedure. A colleague of Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10306	Well, I, Mr. Chairman, volunteered for the breach of the Rules of Procedure because by explaining your decision, you said, quote, I'm only going to quote two sentences from the presentation of representatives of the HDZ Club of Representatives. And you said "quote." You didn't finish the quote, and you said, he turned towards nice, Mrs. Antunovic, like. So it's not true that you quoted the phonogram correctly. The phonogram doesn't say, and you're not finished with your quote, that your colleague turned over there. This is your free interpretation and I ask you, allow your opinion to be given to the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure if this is what the Croatian Democratic Community Club asked for.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10307	I did not dispute at all the right to have an opinion on this Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. In addition, none of the chairmans can do so because such a right to ask for that opinion has a representative against whom the measure has been imposed. I am merely for the purpose of informing the Parliament, for the purpose of informing the public, and once more, from the phonogram, what MP Frano Matušić said, I read the characteristic sentences on which I made the remarks. And it would be good, believe me, if all of us here in the Parliament had more degree and understanding and mutual tolerance not to insult each other, either in this or in any other similar or even more difficult cases. Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, does the club want to be manifested? Thank you very much. Then I ask the HSP Club to continue the debate, to take its final five minutes regarding the law on amendments and additions to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10308	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I have to say on behalf of the club HSP that this debate was not the way it should be and what our representatives should be in the Croatian Parliament, to take care of the situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as we saw it ourselves, that only reasonable was the Prime Minister who understood the problems and immediately gave up the urgency of the procedure. And apparently, many have already had pre-prepared speeches. So that's why they didn't even listen to what the others were saying. Therefore, I was particularly affected today by the fact that today was a generation of members of the Croatian Army, the Blagozadro School, which are the same or similar things that I had already prepared, and I specifically said which sublegal, how many regulations were not passed, and that when a member of the active staff of the colonel and the brigade are encouraged to ask, what does the defence minister of the daukid two branches of the armed forces say? It already proves how much the country is in the armed forces themselves, what it's doing, how it's done. We've long been told to hear in conversations here and today, reshuffle. So, my people, do you know what a reassembly is? This is a clean cut. It's a clean cut. Let's once have the high-ranking generals say that, who used to be deputy ministers. There's no such thing as a redecoration. So the topic is the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10309	... supplement of the Act of Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10310	What about this service or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10311	No, I don't. You have the right to speak to your colleague, but I beg you to return to the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10312	Mr. Mate Arlovic wasn't in the armed forces, so he doesn't know what the service is, but there's no problem. One part of what I was going to say on behalf of the Club and the nomotechnical shortcomings said about Mr. Arlovic's fact that this could be just a supplement law, because nothing changes. But let's go to all kinds of pearls now, so I'll say the first pearl, which is what it means, looking for cumulative conditions in the first one says it has at least 10 years of active military service. And now the first cumulative conditions are set, he says, and a minimum retirement period of 10 years. Well, interestingly, how he'll be 10 years of military service, he won't have 10 years of minimum retirement. And then Mr. Jarnjak says exactly how specific it is. Well done in precision. And imagine now what's hitting me in that part to put an equivalent. Veli, one medal from the group of high-rises, and we first told you how many living ones there are, are only three who have this distinction from the group of high-rises and put the equivalent, this is the highest distinction that a member of the armed forces in Croatia can get, and then the equivalent is that it is equal to the allocation of two monuments, one participation in peacekeeping missions of at least 3 months. Well, that's like saying, it's like a thousand euros and a thousand kuna. Here, that would be the same equivalent this way. Therefore, there are many such indiscretions. And we appeal to the government, although there is not one of the representatives again, was Mr. Palaric and left, because I thought that at least he would be able to answer me. Let someone tell me openly, when will the government meet its obligations? We don't distinguish, we don't speak government of Racanov, the Government of Sanader. For us, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is asking for regulations to be passed, not that we have a situation that the President of the State himself has not passed six regulations of importance, 17 defence ministers, and only in the area of the armed forces, and in the area of defence there are 50 and something. So let's do our job and justify the trust of the Croatian people, and let's not spend all the time fighting between clubs, the case of Chachi, the case of this case, the case of the one, so we do what we're paid for, for which the people chose us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10313	Thank you, dear colleague. Correction of the incorrect quote by counterpart Nenadić. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10314	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Col. Kovacevic probably predicted that 10 years of military service did not mean 10 years of retirement, because during the war he was a well-fused military intern and therefore, when the procedure was quite clear, that 10 years of retirement was much more than he said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10315	Thank you. There is no correcting the incorrect quote. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, what article and in which part?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10316	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It's the same situation as with the vice president, you don't understand the active military service, so it has to be 10 years of effective military service, do you understand? Well, normally, and a special internship and effective retirement goes even more. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10317	Dear counterpart Kovacevic, I must tell you that Article 209(1) has not been injured. Because Article 209(1) speaks of the right of a representative to request a word immediately when the speaker has completed his speech, if he considers that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, and he must also explain which article, where he is injured. You didn't do it, and you used the tile again. Please don't do this. Really, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10318	I apologize, but I still said he was wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10319	My colleagues and colleagues have thus completed the debate on the reported discussions. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the final word? He doesn't want to. I'm concluding a debate on this point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10320	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, first reading. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Number 73. First, the draft law amending and supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is adopted. Second, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 95 votes in favour and 6 against the adopted proposal for this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10321	We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for an Agreement on the Cooperation of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bulgaria in the framework of the approximation and accession of the European Union The proposal for the Agreement is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration. You received their reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? We don't have anyone to argue with. Does anyone want to apply for this agenda hearing? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. and esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I ask the counters to determine the quorum, we must also vote in favour of this point. I'm asking the MPs if they're out there to get into the hall. We have a quorum, 84 MPs present. Therefore, we can rightly decide. I'm giving my esteemed colleagues and colleagues a vote on the next conclusion. The report on the negotiations on the Agreement on the Cooperation of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bulgaria in the framework of the approximation and accession of the European Union shall be taken into account. Secondly, the proposal for an Agreement on the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bulgaria in the framework of the approximation and accession of the European Union is hereby adopted. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? No one. Who's restrained? No one. I find the conclusion has been reached unanimously with 86 votes in favour. Thank you very much. We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Banning Use, Making Stocks, Production and Transfer of Anti-Walking Mines and Destroying, First Reading P.Z. No. 75 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Mr. Ivan Jarnjak, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10323	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 10th session held on 21 April 2004 discussed the proposal of the Law on the Banning and Creating of Stocks of Production and Transfers of Anti-Walk Mines and their destruction, submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 29 March 2004. The Committee unanimously decided to propose the following conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. The Proposal for a Law on the prohibition of use, the creation of supplies, production and transfer of anti-walking mines and their destruction is hereby adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10324	Thank you, Mr. President. Anyone else want to speak on behalf of the working bodies? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the HSS Club, dear colleague Josip Vresk. Here's my colleague, Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10325	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The HSS Club will support the adoption of this law in the first reading, and I think it is good that the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to such important texts sends the law into the ordinary procedure, therefore, no, that it is not going by emergency procedure, of course when it is not necessary. We think that this is a very important law and that it is good that the Government has time to prepare the text of the law in the second reading as it does, namely, there are a number of nomotechnical shortcomings and we hope that the Government and also, on the recommendation of the Committee on Legislatives, will redecorate the text. And what we're trying to say is, it might be good, although it's actually two ministries, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior that the government, along with this text, has referred to the parliamentary procedure and the Law on humanitarian demining that we so eagerly expect. In fact, the former government didn't do it either, and I have to say it openly, but it would be good for this government to do it as soon as possible because this area needs to be regulated as soon as possible because of the situation itself in demining and because of the lack of order of the market, etc., so that I don't list here and the grey economy that is emerging there and that we all know something about. There's neither the place nor the time, this isn't a topic, but we think it would be good if the government sent a text like this to the Parliament. And just a few more notes. It is not good when the Government states in an assessment of the necessary resources that the implementation of this law does not require resources, namely the implementation of this Law by the Government of the budget for this year. Of course, this Law will also cost that both of these ministries do not have funds in their regular budget source and that it is not embarrassing to write that they need to meet in order to implement this Law. Of course they do, and that's a more important goal, that this is an important topic, and it should certainly be written. And what else do you say about the regulation? Namely, it may be a text, I'm a bit undernourished. When you carefully analyse Articles 5, 6 and 7 of that law, you will see that there are simply a number of sublegal acts that will have to be brought to you by the Minister of the Interior, whether the Minister of Defence, but certainly should have been mentioned because the provisions of Article 6 and the provisions of Article 7 are inconclusive without sublegal regulations. It seems to me that I am not sure that administrative inspection and professional supervision by the Croatian Mine Action Centre and should certainly be determined which of the individual ministers within the framework of its ministry must be carried out under the law. We believe that the Government has time and it is necessary to regulate this in writing the final draft of the law. It is a good thing that the Government finally accepted not only the position of the Committee on Legislatives, but we have several times declared ourselves in this House, or the Croatian Parliament, to determine and enter into force the law and now we see that the Government has finally begun to determine exactly when the law enters into force. And finally, I think we need to think a little bit about the demarcation of administrative, inspection and professional supervision because it seems to me that there is often a conflict between the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and the Croatian Mine Action Centre, but I am well-intentioned to point this out, of course, in a way that this problem is solved by sublegal acts. But we think that this is now an opportunity for this issue to finally be settled by law and no one will, of course, prevent it. Finally, I hope that by sending the text of the final bill to the Croatian Parliament, the Government will also direct the Law on humanitarian demining, and that this House, or the Croatian Parliament, will be able to pass both of these laws, even if the Law on humanitarian demining was in the first reading. I repeat in the end, the Croatian Peasant Party will support the adoption of this Law in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10326	Thank you, dear colleague. It's on behalf of our esteemed colleague, Ivan Jarnjak, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10327	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. If any weapons have done a great deal of harm to the people of this world, then they must be anti-infantry mines. Over a billion mines are believed to be total, anti-infantry on a globe of earthly sown and everyday people suffer, and in particular, the worst children suffer from these mines. It is no wonder, therefore, that by now 131 countries have signed this Convention and that the other countries are still preparing or are already preparing to sign and join the Convention. We in Croatia have a special reason that already in 98th April 24th adopted this Convention and that now this Law which is before us is practically operationalisation of this Convention to finally stand on, precisely settle this issue by law, which means when it comes to production and transfer, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and especially about their destruction. I think the Law itself is not insolent because it relies on the laws already passed and which prescribe that matter in both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior and clearly that the Law on the Croatian Mine Action Centre is a special law which will now be regulated, but which will be regulated even more precisely. And finally, I don't talk much about it anymore, we in Croatia have a particular reason to pass and support this Law because human sacrifices and economic damage, because demining costs, and on the other hand, the non-accessibility and land and facilities that have not been used, which are still not used today because it is not demining, are certainly more reason to support the HDZ Club, and absolutely supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10328	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10329	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament, just a few words, clearly that IDS welcomes this law as my predecessors have said. The IDS also welcomes the reasoning in this Law, which says among other things that in the Republic of Croatia there is still a history of the former division of forces of 270 km square and 1700 km of state area suspected of being mined with 1 million mines. It states here that the time limit for demining is as set out in Article 5(1). On 1 March 2009 and in accordance with Article 5(3) of the Convention, The Convention may be requested to postpone it up to 10 years. Then, it also states that as regards the destruction of stored anti-walking mines, the Republic of Croatia has destroyed the total number of registered and registered 205 thousand 749 anti-walking mines 199 thousand 3. She also decided to keep the 7000 of which she now has 6 grand of 747, meaning those anti-walking mines. As my predecessor Mr. Jarnjak said earlier, Croatia is one of those countries that has felt in the most direct way and that feels what war means or what war means, which means when warring parties are separated by belts, which are being swept or swept by mines. Croatian citizens will surely be killed for years because of mines, Croatian pyrotechnics will mine mine mines for years, under quotes of sown areas, and from this place, I am expressing my gratitude to these people for the work they are doing for this country. We all also agree that surely one of the most ungrateful interests is this particular interest of our pyrotechnics and therefore these people should be properly paid and, in the event of injury, do not let God suffer permanent and disability, they should fully share the status shared by the rest of the victims of the Homeland War. Mines, mine removal is a war for me after the war, an army or an army better said don't fight anymore. All people return to their homes. They're rebuilding these homes. The economy is being restored, but our pyrotechnicians under quotes continue to wage war for the country of Croatia, to clean it from mines. That's how I see it. It must be one of the most risky jobs for me. Maybe people, people who do demining work like everyone else, but to these people, there's one deep respect to them, above all, for the risks they put themselves at. And I support this law so clearly. We want to express the belief that the most powerful forces will also begin from the United States to further ratify such and similar conventions with one part of the reasoning, and with one part of the reasoning we cannot agree on, and that is that the implementation of this Law does not require adequate resources. On the contrary. For the implementation of this Law, it is necessary to ensure, I will say hundreds of millions of kunas for the reasons that, according to paragraph 5, this pardon Article 5. Conventions until 1 March 2009. The Republic of Croatia should be cleared from anti-walking mines under quotes. Contrary to 10 years after 2009, this will surely require enormous funding in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia. However, the simple state does so out those areas where these mines are located, or people, should try to find out.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10330	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of HSLS and DC, Mr. Representative Mate Brletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10331	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The DC club HSLS will support the proposal for a law prohibiting the use of stockpiles of production and the transfer of anti-personnel mines and their destruction. The predecessor of this legislative proposal is based on the Law confirming the Convention prohibiting the use of supplies, production and transfer of anti-walking mines and their use, which was adopted in May 1998, and the Convention itself was signed in 1997. Thus, this Law constitutes an implementing regulation in accordance with Article 9 of the Convention adopted. Croatia is one of the 10 countries in the world's most polluted mines, determined to fight mines. This determination was shown in April 1996 by declaring a moratorium for use, production, import and export and storage of anti-personnel mines. In line with that position, the Otaw Process supported and cooperated in the development of a designated Convention which it ratified. Croatia, therefore, has been among 141 signatories of the Otaw Convention on the Ban of Use, Storage, Production, Transport of Anti-Walk Mines since 1997, which also commits to destroying stored mines. By the end of 2001, 3434 anti-walking mines were destroyed in front of participants, the second, the second regional demining conference as well as 1272 anti-walking mines to investigate demining funds. In 2001, half of the 194 032 stored anti-walking mines were planned to be destroyed. Between 1991 and the end of 2003, about 1370 mine incidents occurred with approximately 1869 victims. Civilian victims have appeared in most numbers since 1995 when the return process began. Following the example of last year's action, the Croatian Mine Action Centre organised an action entitled “April, a month of mine protection” with the intention of preventing the loss in mine incidents. Because unfortunately in 2004, there were five deaths, four of which were fatal and one with severe physical damage. It is important to carry out continuous and systematic training on mine dangers in the mine suspected territory of the Republic of Croatia and to inform the public about the problems that mines bring. There are still about a million mines in the territory of Croatia. We all know that each mine represents a potential killer especially for citizens living in areas where war activities took place. Mines are a source of fear. They disrupt the normal lives of those who have returned to the once war - affected areas where they begin to build a future. We all look forward to 2010 when at least according to Croatian government estimates, the entire Croatian territory will be cleared of mines. In accordance with the Otaw Convention, we know that the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia has drawn up and adopted the National Programme against Mine Action in the Republic of Croatia 2000, until 2010 in which it will present all necessary documents as well as financial and legal and social assumptions for its achievement in 10 years. Of course, one of the major problems is the lack of financial resources for the destruction of mines or demining because it is a long-term and expensive process with which parts of Croatia are devastated by war can be difficult to deal with on their own, and this Law is also a further operationalisation of the Otaw Convention. Enjoying this, while respecting the legislation and the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, the proposed law is acceptable, with perhaps one observation that the supervision of its implementation should be carried out by the Croatian Parliament or at least by the Government, or that annual reports of the Croatian Parliament should be provided for. Finally, it should be noted that the mines killed the defenders either died or remained severely disabled. Also many civilians, hundreds of them may have lost their lives in mine fields where they were forced by the Yugoslav army. That's why we support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10332	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10333	Dear Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, since there is no proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is quite unusual in the Croatian Parliament, I do not know how we will inform our debates in order to improve the proposal to the Government, I hope that it will not be necessary to write our discussions and speeches. I hope that a phonogram or something will be delivered to the Ministry's representatives. Although I express my surprise that an assistant who, from deputies to ministers, is from so many people who still behave high duties in the Ministry of Defense, no one found a shando to code such serious subjects, and in the previous law we had the same case. It was not appropriate for someone to appear at the Croatian Assembly so that they could give minimal explanations for our debate. Because what is the context of the debate if we cannot ask the applicant a question or expect any answer. Because the promoter just doesn't have it. In the context of the debate of my predecessors, this is what even a colleague before me said, when looking at this bill, it could be concluded that this is the implementing regulation of an international convention. However, he did not do so with his contents. And it is not easy because the Republic of Croatia has also taken into its legal system the convention quoted in this bill. Not only by ratification, but by bringing in the confirmation of the convention, which was published in People's Journal 7 of the 98th year. And this bill of law, which is in the context of the debate and the very argument itself, arises as if something was completely new. And it's not for the simple reason that the content of this law is quoted from the said law on confirmation, published in People's newspaper No. 7 of 98. Therefore, Articles 2 and 3 of Article 2 is fully cited and Article 3 is convinced of Article 1 of the General Obligations of the Convention. In this context, the question arises which reasons were offered by the applicant means to the Government that regardless of the fact that there is a convention and that means an international contract that has a living in the Croatian legal system, which was the reason for going to the adoption of this Act, which represents a quote of two only two articles of the already existing law, and two additions and I will say later which are the two additions. It should also say the following fact that in the law on the confirmation of the Convention, which represents an international contract, there is already more we MPs know what level it stands for in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, Article 3 of the Convention, says that for the implementation of the Law on Confirmation, and that means the whole of the Convention and that law is the competent Ministry of Defence. Now, in this new law that I repeat is not the implementing act of the special law, based on two articles of the Convention, which means laws already in existence to the Croatian legal system, we have a change of that third article of the Confirmation Act. Which says that for the implementation of the Ministry of Defence, the change has been introduced by the competent authorities and the Croatian Mine Action Centre and the Ministry of the Interior. That fact itself says that there were reasons for proposing such a law. And they obviously didn't exist, and it says in an explanation that we can't agree on, there was no need to implement the convention, because the convention has been ratified since 98th, and by now someone would already remember that a special implementing regulation for the implementation of the Convention has been laid down. This Convention shall live and apply at nsa. but it is obvious that the reasons were quite a bit of a mockery of nature, and they are not even in HSP, we assume, related to the need to engage in the problem of demining the Ministry of Interior and the Croatian Mine Action Centre. So if so, and such problems were likely to arise in practice, then there was no reason not to put it into context, and that this bill would really make sense. I must stress that in Croatia, the party to the right is opposed to the adoption of this law, because we believe it is a good thing that what has appeared in practice as a problem is united in one law, so that conflicts of jurisdiction which have obviously emerged in practice can be resolved more easily. Because certainly no state should be aware of and not to us as legislators, if we know that there is a possibility of a conflict on the example of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. For it is about acts of armed forces and how much must be done and how to make sure that legal solutions are avoided as much as possible by these possible conflicts of jurisdiction. And we in this visible problem, and a fundamental motive for passing such a law and not as they write an explanation of the implementation of conventions. The Convention is in force it is the Croatian law even has the power of an international contract, so even a legal question is raised that has no proposing so far so we cannot ask him if such a law can change an international contract in which he writes something else or something like that. Obviously, in HSP, we don't think that's possible. It's possible to change the law. But if it was to be amended Article 3 of the Law on Confirmation from the National Journals 77/98- then amendments and additions to the law should be made rather than going to a new law. However, it is obvious that the promoter has concluded that it is oil to go to a new law. The arguments for this discussion are claims that Article 2 is almost entirely a quote of the Confirmation Act. And that means conventions. Except that it's very interesting that I wanted to ask the Proposer and he's gone, except in the last item he's speaking does not include a state-owned area in which he's placed his anti-walking mines. In a convention in force, it states the jurisdiction of the territory. The question arises as to why the proposer is the original text of the Convention of the International Treaty applicable in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. And it was published in the National Journal of 7/98. Changed the quote of the convention's expression of concession of the rustic area, put instead, the concession of territories, as it says in the original in the convention. I believe that this is not just nomotechnics, but it would be necessary to get an explanation of the proponents who forced the government to propose, instead of the expression of jurisdiction, an expression in the law, of the state's jurisdiction. Otherwise, it is an expression that we should be careful about and how we should be careful about, and I would also like to point out to the readers for a second reading every time we have an international treaty to formulate the jurisdiction of the territory, let it remain as it stands in the international contract. With the question is it even possible to change the text of this law to change the text of an inter-narondog earring. For the purposes of Article 3(3), it shall present a paper in a nomotechnical sense, but in its content it shall give a quote of Article 1 of the general obligations of a, b, c and point 2. It means points 1 and 2a, b and c. Article 1 of general obligations. Also the text that is already in the Croatian legal system in the convention translated into the National Journal and, of course, the applicable legislation in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, Article 3 presents in its first sentence a quote of the Convention. What is new is the development of Article 3, and that is what has been done by this draft law, and this is about the prohibition in paragraph 1 of this article on what they are related. Here we would like to warn of paragraph 2, which states the ban on the destruction of anti-walking mines, I believe that this is a no-technical need to be corrected for a second reading. And the most interesting item is item 4 which ghouls about banning participation in peace operations carried out using anti-walking mines. We at the HSPa Club, hold that the proposaler for a second reading and how he had to consider this formulation as proposed in the bill. For what reason. When it comes to peace operations, there is an open question about what these are and what kind of peace operations are. e.g. The participation of the Croatian military in Afghanistan is a peace operation. She's not by her name, so according to her content sometimes she's not. This should therefore be defined and, in our opinion, it would be best for the Republic of Croatia to consider leaving this item on the prohibition of participation in peace operations carried out with the use of anti-walking mines under this bill. And that would be the best solution. Because if we were to go to a more interpretative provision like this then we would ask the promoter since he is gone we can't ask him from the Ministry of Defence if it's an announcement of the withdrawal of the Croatian military contingent from Afghanistan. In Afghanistan, the military armies of states that are not signatories of this Convention operate. We should say for the sake of the public and for our fellow MPs, a large number of states have signed the Convention on the Prohibition of Anti-Walk Mines, however, a number of states, and these are the largest with the world's largest force in principle, the United States did not sign a convention like this. The logic of things says that Croatian soldiers in Afghanistan will not determine whether someone is using anti-walking mines or not. The logic of things says that an army that is not, a state that is not a signator of the convention and that owns in its weapons an anti-walking mine to mine and use you. No doubt American soldiers in Afghanistan under such conditions as to protect their so-called. Perimeters use anti-walking mines. Besides, no international regulations prohibit them and they are not signatories of this Convention. The question arises how is it possible then that we are involved in the operation of the Croatian Army if there remains a provision of the law which speaks of a ban on participation in the peace operations conducted for the use of anti-personnel mines. And that translates into wherever there is a peace operation, provided it's a peace operation, even though it's called the anti-terrorism coalition, but we must always try to determine that it's a peace operation. Wherever the Croatian Army participates, if this provision is left, it will be necessary to take care of whether an army that has anti-walking mines is involved and which uses them and uses them. In these cases, the Croatian Army should not participate. I would therefore once again point out, for the next reading it would be best and best to drop this provision and thus avoid possible connotations and interpretations, different interpretations if this becomes the legal regulation of the Republic of Croatia. What is even more interesting is the inclusion of what we welcome, is the inclusion of the Ministry of Interior and the Croatian Mines Centre in the proposal of this law. I reiterate that, in a law which is an international contract, which is valid in the Republic of Croatia, it is explicitly stated in Article 3 for the implementation of this Convention, and this law is a quote of the Convention, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia is responsible and it is necessary to take due account of this in order not to happen, regardless of what unites jurisdiction and in one place which is good, solves the problems of demining that we have. It would be good to take the second reading of the accounts and whether there will be a conflict with the provision of Article 3. The Law on Confirmation of the Convention under the terms of the Law published in the "National Journal" 7/98, given that this Article 3 specifically speaks of the jurisdiction and the sole jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence for the Implementation of the Convention, which means mine problem in the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to the Croatian Mines Centre, he is obviously here in law only for reasons because this article 7 and Article 6. Article 6 is a quote from the Croatian Mine Action Act. This means only from the Croatian Mine Action Act, which is already in force in the Republic of Croatia, which is valid as a regulation, this article is quoted, as we do not know why, because if he writes in the Demining Act what the need to write here is, but apparently someone estimated that there are reasons to write in this bill too. On the contrary, it has already been said here that the problem of demining has reached this limit and that it is high time for a new demining law to appear in the Assembly. This law clearly becomes a station, a variety of plans, there are bickerings in the media, there is a force of problems that needs to be solved by a new law and the ultimate and necessary need to appear and this law in the procedure and there is no reason that in the second reading parallel to this law there is no law on humanitarian demining on what the drafts already exist and that this problem is slightly beginning to be dealt with systematically and in the set as it is said. It should be said that there are many problems related to the Croatian Mine Action Centre, it should also be said that it is announced through the media that the Russian army is coming to work for some compensation. There are a number of questions about whether it is possible to accept the fact or at all possible for foreign soldiers in Croatia to do jobs. There are numerous remarks that foreigners working on demining in the Republic of Croatia, and for those same legal persons and individuals working on demining are not worthy of Croatian laws because there is too much information about how the Croatian Mines Centre does not ask these same legal persons and individuals, unlike Croatian legal and physical persons, for example. the need for punishment, statements by the notary. There is a lot of problems, it is not just a gray market, it is a matter of not respecting and not implementing Croatian laws, and it is an urgent need to do something, which means for the second reading of this law to be adopted in parallel, and the government probably already has it ready and we invite it to put it in the procedure and the Law on humanitarian demining so that we can compare the Demining Act which is the implementing act of the Convention together with this law and then assess whether we are, whether there is a need and whether we are mature against the adoption of this law. We support the first reading with these comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10334	Thank you very much. Before I give my word for breach of the Rules of Procedure, I warn that, with the right of my colleague Jukic, he warned that there was no presence of a government representative at this point in the agenda, because Article 3 of Article 109 said: "If the debate does not involve a government representative, a parliament or a working body, it may consider that the presence of a government representative is necessary, a debate is interrupted or delayed. That is what the Parliament will decide without debate." I must say that Minister Roncevic has prayed that this item of the agenda be postponed because it is located outside the country, and there is no deputy, or State Secretary, who can represent the Government here in either the Minister or the State Secretary, or the Deputy Minister, so we are either ahead of time to continue this kind of stunt and, as I would say, limited because there is no minister, so he can neither take the debate directly but only if he receives and receives the minutes. So that's what we need to decide. As no one officially asked this question by calling on Article 109, I assumed that despite these objections, and we did not delay and perhaps we should have discussed how the minister asked, then proceed with this session if you agree or interrupt the debate on this agenda point. For the word out... This is the first reading, so no amendments are decided. Mr Zlatko Kramarić has applied for the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10335	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. In fact, you took away my discussion because you have truly proved yourself to be a racial authentic Democrats and you have realized that it is indeed the injured Rules of Procedure 109, Article 109(3), because indeed fellow Jukic has asked a whole series of really very delicate questions that most of the MPs sitting here should get an answer and we think that your obligation and duty as chairman is to ensure the presence of the promoters and I think we should stick to these good customs of the democratic ones, because I fear that this is how the debate loses any dignity and indeed turns out that we are talking to ourselves here and that we will have to wait for a second reading to get the answers that we could have already received. But once again, I commend you for being ahead of me, I was just about to warn you about article 109. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10336	Thank you very much. Well, I didn't start this part of the agenda, but all of a sudden, I started it, maybe I missed one, didn't I? ... I don't know if I can handle these compliments I'm not used to in this House. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the HNS Club and the PGS, respected representative Srecko Ferenčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10337	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law prohibiting the use, creating stockpiles of the production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and their destruction, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament, provides for a ban on the use of the creation, production and transfer of mines, their constituent parts and anti-demination devices. The obligation to destroy them is also defined by the basic concepts, the prohibited conduct and the obligation of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and the Croatian Mine Action Centre to enforce the law and the powers to exercise control over the implementation of it. All of these are in line with the provisions of the Convention on the Prohibition of Use, the Creation of Stocks, Production and Transfer of Anti-Walk Mines and the destruction of which is the signatories and the Republic of Croatia since 1.3.99. This law allows the implementation of the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia based on the provisions of the Convention. The representatives of the HNS and PGS Club support the bill on banning the use of supplies, production and transfer of anti-walking mines and their destruction, thus helping to address the huge demining problem facing the Republic of Croatia in the legislative sphere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10338	Thank you. For the word also appeared, in 10 minutes, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10339	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. If, if the parliament of any European country, Austria, France, Germany, had passed such a law, and in that parliament when the law was passed, the defence minister would not come to the debate, then it would probably be rude, but it would not be scandalous. But when it is known that Croatia, what the citizens of Croatia have all experienced from these unfortunate anti-walking mines, when it is known how many people were killed not only in the war but also after the war, was badly wounded by these anti-walking mines, when it is known how many children were killed by mines, when it is known how many pyrotechnicians were killed, suffered, and will unfortunately still be killed in the demining of Croatia, then the debate on such a legal proposal without the presence of the defence minister is actually a scandal. Regardless of what you told Minister Roncevic, regardless of which he is probably justified on the road, we could postpone this debate, do it next week when the minister is there. This creates an unnecessarily ugly impression that the minister and the government of this bill and everything the MPs say about him means absolutely nothing. It's not just the danger of war that's lagging behind. It is unfortunately in Croatia and a means of terrorism. What the anti-walking mine says is Article 2 of this law. The mine of a mine means a mine designed to explode in the presence, proximity, or in contact with a person and who will incapacitate, wound or kill one or more people. That's exactly the kind of device that killed Nino Levar. But not just him, many citizens were killed not in the war, after the war. Such a mine as a means of terrorism. As a result, any ban on possession, preservation, storage, transfer of anti-walking mines in our country is an unusually important matter. The law, there's something strange about this law. It's a law without sanctions. The law states in Article 3 that it prohibits the use, development, production or otherwise the acquisition of supplies, transfer to the territory of the State, the preservation or deviation of anyone, directly or indirectly, of mines, of their constituents and anti-demination devices, as well as of helping and encouraging others to act. And what if someone does do those stores anyway? It is forbidden by law, and what will happen to those who do not respect that law? He's got the Penal Code, he's got the Penal Code, and that's Article 163. Penalty law. But this Penal Code speaks of a ban on transport, transfer, etc., chemical or biological weapons. Not the anti-walking mines. It would be instructions, keep an eye on me at this same session we have received the Penal Code, a proposal from the Government, so it would be normal for this article to be amended and in line with this law that was sent to us for adoption at that same session, that is, to be discussed. You think so? It's not. Article 163 of the Penal Code does not change. It doesn't change. This, however, shows how the government works as a whole. It sends such a law to lawyers for whom there are no sanctions and for which there would be unnecessary sanctions because sanctions are imposed in the Penal Code, but at the same time it also sends the Penal Code where those sanctions and the article do not change and impose any sanctions. One ministry does not know what the other ministry is doing, and all together it shows the relationship between the two ministries and the government as a whole towards this House. That's why I started my debate with the absence of Minister Roncevic because it's just a little pebble that shows a relationship to the Parliament. But more than that shows this complete discrepancy. And then, please, the law forbids other things. Participation in peace operations is prohibited, banning participation in joint military exercises is prohibited. There are no sanctions for that in the Penal Code. So what's to ban if there's no penalties when someone breaks that ban? Therefore, this law is filled with inadequacy. He, he needs to be brought, of course, because he represents a alignment with the Convention. There's something extra in it. That's a nice club HSP brought out. Rescription from other laws. Well, since it's already prescribed by other laws, it could be prescribed, for example, by the Penal Code or if it was known that there is no such sanction in the Penal Code, so it could be prescribed by this law. Well, at least for those parts that the Penal Code probably never does. Because the ban on participation in peace operations is not the subject of the Penal Code, and it certainly won't say who is involved in peace operations, it will be punished. It's not in any criminal law. Therefore, until the second reading needs to be answered to these questions, the law to be complemented in some parts of the prescribed matter of other laws, shortened and then sent to adoption with little more respect to this House that discusses it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10340	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the agenda point and I propose a conclusion that will be reached when the conditions are met, these conclusions. Proposal for a Law prohibiting the use of supply, production and transfer of anti-walking mines and their destruction, first reading, Law No. 75. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. First, a proposal for a Law prohibiting and destroying the use of supplies, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines is adopted. Second, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that with 101 votes, this conclusion has been unanimously accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10343	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian Democratic Community Club sent a proposal on the termination of the Law on the recognition of the Croatian Parliament "Golden coat of arms", with the Final Proposal for the Law, and since the Law on the recognition of the Croatian Parliament "Golden coat of arms" established the recognition of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Assembly for a special contribution to the development of parliamentaryism, democracy, tolerance, tolerance and protection of human rights in the Republic of Croatia, and also this proposal, the law that has been adopted in force as a joint proposal for the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament and the Clubs of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. However, the same law, which was passed in May 2002, before it was first implemented, experienced two amendments and additions in its procedure, so that we had the first amendment and addition of the law on 14 March 2003, and 22 May 2003 there was also a second amendment to the existing law. The law was also first awarded on the occasion of the day of the Croatian Parliament on 30 May to our colleagues, Mr. Baltazar Jalšovec, Mr. Academyman Vlatko Pavletić and as a non-party association of citizens of GONG who received a certain recognition of the Croatian Parliament, with a gold plaque and 100 thousand in the amount of 100 thousand kuna. As the law in its procedure came upon and a series of indeterminates nowhere established criteria that must be owned by a candidate who is proposed, the team was also disabled and the adoption of an objective assessment, which is why there are no clear nor established criteria, it is not prescribed to carry out a public tender, and all of this made it difficult to carry out the procedure and caused certain doubts and controversy in the public on the very purpose of giving recognition to the "Golden coat of arms". How the applicants for the award of the "Golden coat of arms" can be representatives, representatives' clubs, working bodies in the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, ministries and other bodies of the state government, political parties, associations and religious communities, and the incentive can also be addressed by citizens under the means of one of those applicants, all this is without a public tender quite unclear. and the Croatian Democratic Community Club, because of the shortcomings found in the law itself, which have not been removed in the past period, proposes that the said law cease to apply. Since we have established an emergency procedure, because the deadline until which the Croatian Parliament no later decides is May 15th, 25th, and the incentives are reached by 15th of April at the latest, so we believe that there are also justified indicators of the urgency of the procedure. and I would also like to ask you to accept Mr. President of our Club, Mr. Luka Bebić, on March 30th, referred to the draft Law on the termination of the Law on the recognition of the Croatian Parliament "Golden coat of arms", because it was a mistake to provide a constitutional basis for the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, instead of a proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the recognition of the Croatian Parliament "Golden coat of arms". Therefore, we ask that you honor this apology and memo. The Croatian Democratic Community Club proposes that MPs in the Croatian Parliament support the adoption of this law in an emergency procedure under which the Law on the recognition of the Croatian Parliament "Golden coat of arms" will cease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10344	Thank you very much, very much, very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10345	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It's an extremely short law, so it's only three sentences. This confession as it was called by law was actually not a small reward with all the arguments that, although I'm not mistaken, was worth about 100,000, or 100,000 kuna. For procedural reasons and procedures that were present during the first such assignment, we will support the adoption of this law, namely the "Golden coat of arms". But with the announcement that the issue of awarding civil society organisations that have indeed contributed to the development of democracy in the Republic of Croatia with a cash compensation, we will propose in the autumn with our bill, because we believe that this should indeed, given that through the state rights such organisations cannot be financially rewarded as one of the winners last year used the award for further development of democratisation and parliamentism itself in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10346	Thank you very much for your representative. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10347	Honorable gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Like my predecessor, just a few words, when we're talking about this law. I think the biggest problem of this law was not that the Parliament took the right to award the Golden coat of arms award to eligible citizens of the Republic of Croatia for, it should be quoted as "a special contribution to the development of parliamentaryism, democracy, tolerance, tolerance and protection of human rights in the Republic of Croatia", but that this award was accompanied by an inappropriate prize of 100,000 kuna to the public court. Another problem is the fact that the parliamentary majority could, or could, reasonably mean the government's determination without some specific criteria, awarding a reward to one of its trusted champions, and that the public, or most of it, disagreed with that choice, I would say, or a good part of the MPs. So it happened last year, for example, that it did not, that for example, that the prize was given to our good friend Bolta Yalshovec, and that his position in public life was "sufficient" from the character and part of Stjepan Mesic. Last year's award of "Golden coat of arms" is exactly what I would have said because of this subjectivity which would have somehow been swallowed by the public if it hadn't been followed by a prize of 100 thousand kuna, led to the fact that the prize eventually became or rather lost its meaning. The prize was awarded the first time in 2003 and it seems that it will never be awarded again. On the other hand, it is certain that it should be an honor for all of us to, if it were Croatia, receive the award of a parliament above Croatia. On the other hand, it may be better now that the awards, I quote, "A special contribution to the development of parliamentaryism and democracy, tolerance, tolerance, protection of human rights" in the Republic of Croatia is given not by parliament but by government, but by not by governmental organisations, such as taking. HHO awarding the prize... Alexander Zac's reward, which last year, if I'm not mistaken, was given to the son of the murdered Milan Levar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I purposely mentioned this award to Alexandera Zac in the context of the fact that the state's attorney's office is not ready to settle with the living members of that family because under quotes, "they don't know" whether they were killed at the time of the service or in their spare time. However, I would like to appeal to the Parliament for its authority to rise above all of us in a painful situation which I would say compromises the democracy of the Republic of Croatia. As far as I know today, there has been a settlement between the state of Croatia and the Levar family. I, on the other hand, want to believe that this award, this idea of the "Golden coat of arms" when it was submitted was noble but not diminishing the work of the winners of this award, that reward will once again become worn out. I claim that Mr Pavletić, as one of the winners of the award, played an important role in the transfer of power in the Republic of Croatia, correctly led this House of Highers, and as such, I will say that he was inadmissible to some structures within the former order, which even carried out certain surveillance measures of listening, etc., over one of the highest officials of the Republic of Croatia. About Bolta Yalshovac, I can tell you everything clearly. I found him the best of one difficult circumstance, and you found his speeches at Bleiburg. But once again, this award really doesn't make any sense anymore, and that's how much this proposal makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10348	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS esteemed representative Ljubica Lalić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10349	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the proposal for a law that actually contains two articles and the law itself, the bill itself is clear. The entry into force of this Act, i.e. by adopting, will cease the Law on the recognition of the Croatian Parliament "Golden coat of arms". Thus, by adopting and acting on this very short law, the Law on the recognition of the Croatian Parliament "Golden coat of arms" will be abolished, under the law, recognition is granted, not for any reason but for a special contribution and for the development of parliamentaryism, democracy, tolerance, tolerance and protection of human rights in the Republic of Croatia. The proposer says the law should be abolished because no criteria have been laid down that must be owned by a candidate who is proposed. If that were the real reason then, the existing law should not be abolished, it should be complemented and amended in certain provisions. However, it is obvious that this is not the real reason and therefore I wonder if there is actually a true will in this House to give encouragement in the way of recognising a special contribution to the development of parliamentaryism, democracy, tolerance, tolerance and the protection of human rights. And if that were the case and whether this question was founded and in place we could see for ourselves by a series of equative and... in the last few months. MPs who have experience in parliamentary life through several mandates testify to an attempt to marginalise parliament and these attempts are sometimes realised. Of course, efforts to marginalise parliament are incompatible to encourage parliamentaryism. We have experienced that ministers read us bouquets by not reading or mildly ignoring opposition MPs and clubs, but that is not ignoring MPs and all the clubs, it is ignoring citizens who voted for them, which is also the ratio of 800 thousand votes to 934 thousand votes in favour of the opposition. This is ignoring the demographic right of free choice, ignoring democracy is incompatible to foster democracy's development. We are witnessing inappropriate words and tones in the exchange of views of individual representatives but also steps forward by the Prime Minister himself when one club of representatives on several occasions said they were lying. There is certainly no will to encourage and recognise the development of tolerance and tolerance in the tolerance of such rhetoric. And that's why this bill of law is sending people a message, we don't need tolerance, and we don't need tolerance. Without developing tolerance and tolerance, we will not tear ourselves out of spiritual misery and this misery is a return card in... If this Law had changed, even if it had abolished the amount of money we wouldn't have said, we would have welcomed the proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's just keep it a plaque, we don't mind, and that's a confession. But it all seems inadmissible to us right from the message that comes out of it. The reason for abolishing the Law is not all that followed the first and most likely the final award. The recipient of recognition or the winners is not only a reflection of the person who grants the confession, it is likely more a reflection of the person who has performed the run. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party does not protect the amount of money, does not protect the other shortcomings of the law, but protects the need to encourage efforts to develop and parliamentaryism and democracy and tolerance and tolerance, and therefore we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10350	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. On behalf of the promoter, Ms. Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10351	Thank you very much, Mr. President, on behalf of the promoter, I felt the need to refer very briefly to the presentation of a colleague from the Croatian Peasant Party on behalf of the Club where it is said that the Croatian Parliament and Croatian society do not need according to this, as we propose tolerance and tolerance. That's incorrect. Our Club too, along with other clubs, pledged to be this award awarded by the Croatian Parliament for a special contribution to the development of parliamentaryism, democracy, tolerance, tolerance and protection of human rights, as I said in the introduction, but unfortunately, this award adopted by the Croatian Parliament and unanimously brought to its own sense of purpose, that perhaps the amount that it went along with that award was inappropriate. That the representatives are in their own way, and we are the ones elected by the Croatian public and Croatian citizens have in some way offended our work and that we have brought ourselves into the situation by respecting the honorable people who have received the prize and who we have unanimously supported, but that we have been paid for our work in this form. As a Club of the Democratic Community, I advocate, and I think that we need to think about forming a more appropriate new form of reward that the Croatian Parliament would give, but more appropriate because this way is worth a lot of it. We are in a situation that protected the reputation of Croatian politicians. There has been a public comparison with the work of scientists, artists who have spent their entire lives devoted their activities to improving both science and Croatian culture and to the well-being of Croatian society, and these awards amounted to up to 40 thousand kuna, and therefore we believe that at this point because I read that by April 15th I should make proposals, and by May 25th the Croatian Parliament should make this decision. That is why we believe that this kind of award is “Golden coat of arms” inappropriate and therefore we are asking for the withdrawal from, from this Law, but we are standing on that in another form of Croatian Parliament to present a more appropriate award and we believe that Croatian society, the Croatian state, and also we here in the Croatian Parliament are very tolerance and tolerance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10352	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10353	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Bajt, I did not say that the Croatian Parliament should not, I just said what is being imposed on us as a question from the message of the Law to be abolished. That's exactly what you were talking about. Let's leave it to the plaque. The plaque is materially worthless, but it is a moral incentive and a moral satisfaction, and this is how the abolition of even the possibility of granting a confession we send a very bad message and because of this message can be any way. It could have been a lot worse than I thought when I was going in a milder form. That's why we're changing the law so we don't have to bring a confession this year, but not to send a bad message that's harmful.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10354	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10355	Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. She's had this award and she's obviously got an unfortunate destiny. It's only assigned once and will be lifted. She had an unfortunate destiny, and somehow she was compromised. And she was compromised by being assigned to two active deputies. I don't think Mr. Pavletic and Mr. Yalsovec would deserve a reward. I think it was both very honorable people who worked long in this House who were prominent parliamentarians, but the award compromised the fact that the Assembly was awarding its active members and then even cash. Well, then, when it's still at such a high price. And it's really come across a negative echo in public, and I think it's right to come across a negative echo in public. It would be good for the Parliament to keep the prize. The rewards are awarded by all kinds of professional associations; musicians, actors, innovators, assign to themselves, to their prominent members, to those who advocate in their field of reward, and also to the monetary ones. And the Croatian Parliament, the most representative body in the country, abolishes its prize. This clumsy and unfortunate move last year may not be enough reason to go immediately to cancel the prize because why is the prize awarded? It is dedicated to a special contribution to the development of parliamentaryism, democracy, tolerance, tolerance and protection of human rights in the Republic of Croatia. These are all the highest values and I think that the Croatian Parliament is exactly the most qualified institution to reward someone for promoting these values and it is a pity that we will be left without a reward to promote these values. And that's how I understood the representation of Lalic. These values are important for us to send a message by abolishing the prize that these values are not important to us, and I know that each of us holds to those values. And I know that every one of us thinks we should promote them and reward the people who promote them. Who could be awarded the prize? I'm certainly against having practice repeated last year. We cannot award ourselves a reward, but the reward can be obtained by the institutions of civil society that stand up for these values. I can get journalists who've been following Parliament's work for years. Again, not those reporters who are actively following. Why? So that it would not be understood as in some way bribing these journalists by the parliamentary majority who always makes it, it actually decides on who they will be assigned, but those who have spent their working lives as parliamentary rapporteurs, so if they have done their job correctly, and most of them are doing just that. You know last year, in competition there was Mrs. Jasenka Dudic, who was a journalist of the Croatian Radio, who was going to retire that year. She was an ideal person to give her that award and show how much we appreciate the work of the parliamentary rapporteurs who stay here with us at all the sessions, stay and when the session is over to make their reports. The President of the Republic who was also in the candidacy last year, but not because the President of the Republic was a prominent parliamentarian, and what he was really fighting for parliamentaryism, for the development of parliamentaryism, for all these values described in the awards. Unfortunately, these two candidates didn't win last year's prize. Unfortunately, a wrong decision has been made, but I would be, therefore, to respect the argument, the statement in the explanation that there are no criteria and to set criteria and to say in these criteria: I cannot get active representatives to do so. I can't. It's a very simple criterion to make bad practice impossible from last year. But it will be a real shame, it will be a shame for the Croatian Parliament to take away the right to award such a prize. But when a bad impression was created in public, a bad picture of the current prize, unfortunately. Then I must say that my club will vote for this proposal. To end the prize, but I think it would be good to consider introducing another prize at the most recent time. It doesn't have to be cash, it doesn't have to be money. But not to give up that the Parliament is rewarding individuals, it encourages the institutions of civil society that advocate the development of parliamentaryism, democracy, and tolerance in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10356	Thank you very much. And the last respected representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10357	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I must admit that I am unusually glad to be talking about this particular topic when you are chairing in the House it is, however, an impression of Croatian parliamentaryism, and that is why I am not going to have any questions on which I cannot give unequivocal answers that are actually disturbing why we are abolishing this award. This could be the case with some chronicler who might be studying our materials, our Parliament's documents thinking that in 2004 in Croatia about parlamenatrism regarding human rights tolerance, it really was all about the brightest state. And otherwise, our tradition of the parliamentaryism of democracy, of tolerance, of relations with weaker entities is simply such a reward becomes in itself unnecessary. But I think we should still be a little more critical and say that even our tradition isn't as great as it might seem to us. And I would really like to appeal once again to the motionary to consider it. In fact, we can assume that in 2003 we were wrong and that perhaps the prizes were not the happiest division although I think it was not so much a problem in people but in the fact of a general lack of money, a large number of unemployed, small salaries, irregular salaries, when two leaders of the Croatian Parliament receive also money prizes that there indeed it left to the public and could have left behind and left a bitter taste. but I think that because of the practice and precisely from this fact that we really are a country in transition, a country that is facing who is daily learning and showing thanks to the point of learning well, and that it can really lay down and the hardest tasks and actually get positive answers. DESCRIPTION We should, in particular, insist the Croatian Parliamentette on promoting these very weeks, which we have decided quite easily that there are no criteria. So I think the criteria can also be agreed by consensus. If, in 2002, it may not have been most difficult to say, but a negligent azlog after two years and a negative conditional statement, exudes, we can change these criteria. And I really don't think that in this situation we should end this award. In fact, certain elements of the prize would perhaps, not perhaps, but certainly need to be re-falsured. The attitude towards institutions is something that actually shows the degree of democracy of every country. Why did the transition in Spain after France succeed and, say, in Russia after Jeljeljin did not. It was precisely because the post of Franskovski Spain insisted on strengthening the institution. And just to strengthen the institutions not as Jeljcin naively thought that an economic growth of such vulgarly applied some knowledge from some breeds...the theory did not actually lead to a change in the state of the spirit in Russia. And let's just say that in Spain, in 75 years, without any major problems, it happened. Just because it insisted on the institution. We don't actually allow any or even some negative example, that some give him a chance to survive in the best possible way. And our relationship with the institution, and even with this Parliament, we're actually playing to pass one law in 2002 and then after two years without really some great justification we approach, not only to change it, but to abolish it exactly shows that one elemental uncertainty and shows that we don't really know what we want. Since I think that we still have and how there is insufficiency about democracy, about tolerance, respect for human, minority, and their rights, that it is indeed and how it is necessary to have and to have exactly those people who are doing it with great care, and also the President of the Parliament himself is present on these projects, and 90 of those years ago, working hard, and I don't see the reason that one point on this long-term job. Now I'm saying this honestly, and I hope you understand that because otherwise I can't even say it, and there's no reward. But which doesn't have to be at the exact moment when it is the President of Parliament, but it can really happen when Mr. Shakespeare retires, but it won't be so soon, and nobody wants to be so fast. But I have no reason not to approve his contribution to parliamentaryism, to tolerance, to the fight for human rights that caused him to suffer in some storms. And I would truly support it. I don't understand. I have to admit this jam in the hall, but I'm telling you the truth. Because in the end this remains in some way for history written down. And precisely for these reasons, as a representative of the Croatian Parlamnet who is almost also known as Mr Seks and Mr Bebić, almost but not for so long, I would ask that this one consider that the Proposer should consider and possibly make certain adjustments in the amendments within this law but to avoid the abolition of this legal act which is nevertheless in the post of promotion of Croatian Parliamentism. Democracy. And because of certain, I don't know, the negative experiences that he's in the way. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10358	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Vice-President of the House, Mr Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10359	It is nice to finish this day with a joyful and optimistic view of the future of Croatian Parliamentarianism. And to remember those who have come to the words of my speaker, the distinguished representative Kramaric, known as Croatian Parliamentarianism. Looking back from the 90th on here. And it was not in our mind to question the need for the Croatian Parliament to repay or in any way recognise people who fought for democracy, tolerance, tolerance and protection of human rights in the Republic of Croatia. So here next year is the 15th anniversary of the work of this new Croatian gsabora, so it's an appropriate jubilee when we can prepare one maybe other law, how and how we will give recognition to those people who stood up for what we're talking about here today. And I think that the Croatian Democratic Community will also contribute in cooperation with the proposal for this law. And we in advance are announcing that we will be able to bring such a law by consensus and actually find an expression of how to do it without some big money. Because money if we know it's not the most important thing. It's an important confession, as we've heard here from most of the people involved in this debate. So we stay on it and if we talk subjectively about it here we heard Mr. Stazic, we heard Mr. Kramarić who they preferred to get such recognition. It's a subjective attitude towards the fact that I thought last year that whoever was supposed to win the prize would be our current Parliament Speaker, Mr. Vladimir Seks. I wasn't laughing at that. I meant it. For all that he has given in Croatian parliamentism, from the Constitution and beyond. But others thought differently. This shows that we have different views on this issue and it is nothing controversial. For example, Mr. Stazic listed some names, some he might agree with, some he might not. But here I say, subjectively, maybe I'm the only one who thinks that, but that's my opinion. Let's say that if I were to appoint some representative who would be on that show all the time on Sundays at 2:00, I would suggest that Mr. Stazic be there all the time for our representative on those shows because he's very good at interpreting his views, democracy and so on. So it's subjective to my position, probably just mine, but I have the right to such an attitude. So if we went into an analysis of what, who, when, could hardly agree. It's very hard to know. But perhaps in some times when these passions that we show in the parliamentary struggle, we finally come to some consensus. I hope that for the 15th anniversary of the work of the new Croatian Parliament we will come to such and legal, such regulation by the law of this award, and probably agree on those we will propose and unanimously support in this House. The HDZ therefore remains open to a different approach to this issue in that it is necessary to recognise both democracy and tolerance and tolerance and protection of human rights for people who have promoted this without a reservation, so I hope that in the coming months and consensus we will reach a different law which will also be called the Croatian, gold coat of arms of the Croatian Parliament or otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10360	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Zlatko Kramarić respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10361	Thank you. I really hope my colleague Baby didn't mean me. I'm really not in any way...... Well, I don't think it's forbidden to have a bright look on my face, but Mr. Shakespeare knows very well that I called him a phoenix of Croatian democracy somewhere in June 90s and that I thought it as seriously as I do today and that I was able to vote for Mr. Shecks last time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10362	My colleagues and colleagues, since I was in some way apostrophe, I would say one sentence and quote Article 177. The Rules of Procedure of our House. It reads: "The Parliament can give recognition by decision, charter, thank-you or other act to a national or foreign citizen or organisation for his work which is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. The special interest in the Republic of Croatia is to take and promote parliamentary values, tolerance, democracy. The Parliament's proposal for recognition is submitted by the President of the Parliament." So there is no reason not to give certain incentives that the President of the Parliament would then refer to the Parliament and I cannot debate from this place, but it was also the decision of the Presidency to first make a decision that would implement this provision of the Rules of Procedure and was in charge of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and the President of its committee to prepare the text of such a decision before the Parliament, and then... the draft of the law came. The same may be the decision, charter, thank-you and other act to call it the golden coat of arms and, in any case, award recognition for whom the Parliament holds that it needs to be granted recognition for the development and promotion of democracy, human rights, parliamentaryism. ... There's no criteria. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here I would now if you let me conclude the debate on this subject, and since it is already late, relatively, we would be going tomorrow because it is such a situation towards most of the club's position, that tomorrow we are going to take a report on the 2003 Commission on Securities of the Republic of Croatia, a report on the work of the children's defender for 2003, a report on the work on gender equality for 2003, so there is no Report on the work of the Ombudsman, because there are many reports and confirmations of the contract between Croatia and the Republic of Bulgaria on social security so that, within one appropriate time frame, we will have a session tomorrow and we will continue on Wednesday. Thank you very much. I'll see you at 10.00 in the morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-22-0.u10363	Final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law on the recognition of the Croatian Parliament "Golden coat of arms", emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 69. The legislator is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Mrs. Byte, would you like to make a statement about the proposed amendment? What about the Legislative Committee? Sustained. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that most of the votes 95 for, 6 against the passed Law on the termination of the Law on the recognition of the Croatian Parliament "Golden coat of arms" is in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the adopted amendment.
