ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12569	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'd just like to say a little bit before the opening explanation of the budget, if something that was said from this pay phone this morning might have been misread or anything else, it wasn't intended to go that way. But let me begin my reasoning of budget implementation with one instruction or order or to inform all the users of the budget that was sent 26. 3. In 2003, and she'll make it clear why we're arguing over some of the positions I was talking about this morning, and I'm going to quote her. Therefore, the quote reads "in order to make more realistic planning of the outflows of funds from the budget account, users are warned that only the requirements with the maturity date after and date of entry can be considered invalid in all systems. The requirements are entered into the system no later than the last working day of the week for next week etc." This clearly indicates that any request entered, actually the requirements could not be entered if there was no money, but if the request was entered and the actual date of maturity was entered, then it had to be corrected. This clearly indicates that state finances were conducted and why certain excesses occurred. So let me start my opening part with a finding which should change in the future that with this purely professional debate never again accepts the political dimension, which is firstly to edit the state treasury, because the main lack of the state treasury does not exist a single account for all transactions of the state budget. And if that had been established, I know that my predecessor insisted on it, he probably didn't have enough political support to do it to the end, and ultimately, it's the intensity of every finance minister to have orderly finances. So at this point, it's true that they're existing 125 bills of court deposits that are currently located somewhere around 500 million kuna. And I have agreed with the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Skare-Ozbolt, that in the coming period these funds are included in the state budget and that these 125 accounts are simply eliminated. There are also 72 accounts in the Croatian postal bank and even with these 72 accounts exist 101 sub-accounts. Therefore, the number of accounts would not be so alarming if these accounts were only to be paid out of the state budget that were recorded in the context of the State Treasury. And if it's for a purpose that's open to cash first and foremost. Therefore, the issue of sub-accounting and channelling funds into a single treasurer account is not questionable and all the activities of the coke that this ministry is going to undertake in the next period is therefore going to end these sub-account accounts. And that as much as it's possible to pay everything through a single bank account. There is also a problem of kuna individual purposes, through which loans from international and financial institutions are withdrawn, even though their terms are in a certain way. But it must be ensured that this money is recorded in the budget, not that it will happen to us if we have already spoken to the 241 million Croatian railways, which is registered in that one foreign exchange account. But neither was recorded in the state treasury as receiving credit, nor was it recorded in the parent resolution ministry if the expenditure was incurred. And when I'm going to talk later about the part that makes the deficit in 2003 is such coffee, there are items in the budget, so the records are being made and where significant excesses have been made. Thus, at the position of the guarantee reserve of the principal and interest payments and the compensation, the amount of the 566 million kuna plan has been exceeded. And so now I'm going to quote the articles of the law for a simple reason, I think there are some things that are defined by law that don't need to be discussed and added to political dimensions. It's just that it's easy to figure things out to get the right name. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The budget law, budget items for the payment of the principal and the public debt interest may be implemented in amounts above planned. So the guaranteed reserve of 75.3 million kuna, the payment of the principal 330, 2 million kuna, the disbursement of interest of 147.7 million kuna and the compensation of actually 12.7 million kuna, or a total of 556 million kuna. Also expenditure, based on the cost of gambling revenues made more than 83.9 million than planned. And this is the government office of the Republic of Croatia for the association of 12 million and 93 thousand, Ministry of Foreign Affairs 427 thousand, Ministry of Culture 4 million 319 thousand, Ministry of Education and Sports 34 million 985 thousand. Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs 25 million 882 thousand. And the Department of Health 6 million 257 grand. Or a total of 83 million 963 thousand kuna. At a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia held on 18 December, so 5 days before the appointment of the new Government, and nearly a month after the elections, a decision was taken on the re-capitalisation of the funds planned in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2003, the decision gives a hint of spending on some activities of greater than planned in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, totaling 653 million and 200 thousand kuna. So he's over-working the government budget. This is a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 18 December and payment of the unpredictable commitments under a collective contract for 2003 totalling 300.3 million kunas are bigger than planned for the 102 million kuna. The planned amount for that purpose is 198 million kuna. So there are the Ministry of Justice in total 56 million 189 thousand, the Ministry of Education 102 million, the Ministry of Defence 45 million 566 thousand, the Croatian Institute of Wood Insurance 67 million, the MUP 21 million, so a total of 296 million and other obligations based on the collective contract 4 million and 208 thousand or a total of 300 million and 319 thousand kuna. The missing funds referred to above are the result of a collective contract, i.e. an annex to the collective ungvor, collective agreements concluded after the adoption of amendments and the addition of the law on changes to the national budget for 2003. Now the question is how could someone create obligations under a collective contract if they did not have the means to secure it in the state budget. And if it was known that by the end of the year there would be no more rebalancing of the state budget. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the On a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, the government approved a redistribution of funds, on the item for disbursement of unscheduled liabilities on the basis of a collective contract of EUR 188 million. In this way 198 million kn is secured in that item. Increased pension and pension costs compared to the planned funds in the next budget items. Peace and Peacekeeper's receipt total planned 20 billion and 92 million, paid 20 billion 938 million. Or overruns of 845.9 million kuna. Peace abroad planned 281 done 324 or overrun 42.8 million. Taxes, cut and mouth on pension planned 738 paid 799 or a total of 61 million kuna. So, as far as pension and pension benefits are concerned, a total of 949.7 million kuna is paid above the budget of the planned funds. To point out that, in the amount of over-indebted debt of 760 million kuna, which was taken over by the central state treasury, i.e. Ministry of Finance from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. It should be noted, inter alia, that the financial plan of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has also been adopted by us here in the budget. And then, if it was already going to go into this transaction, then this should have been proposed when amending the budget and the financial plan of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute should be amended. Items in the budget for secondary health care and prescription medications were made in excess of plans for 358 million kuna. The cost of prescription drugs planned for a billion 746 million, made a billion 866 million or exceeded 120 million kuna. The cost of secondary healthcare planned for 6 billion 164 million and 900 thousand kuna, made 6 billion 402 million and 900 thousand kunas, or more than 238 million kunas, or all 358 million kunas are coming. So, ladies and gentlemen, when you add up these surpluses that are therefore paid in the budget beyond what was foreseen by the change in the income plan and the expenditure of the state budget, then you come up with the data of a billion and 800 in certain positions of overrun. But it's overrun, but it's neatly recorded in business books, and we can say that's what happened. But when we talk about the deficit, then we're going to talk about it, and now I'm going to document it with certain data. So the third on the refurbishment credit tranches carried out through HBOR. I said that in 2001, the former government decided to renovate 4000 objects and the decision was made on 26 July 2001 and it was said that in 2001 the HBOR would conclude with the contractors of the work amounting to 107 million 762 kuna, saying with the selected contractors that according to the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia HBOR, HBOR concluded the credit agreements and that is what is controversial and that is what I say all the time that it cannot and cannot be done. A credit bearing the title of the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development in order to avoid accounting in the budget, to avoid records, to avoid showing in the deficit, to give the credit to contractors and then to say, concludes the credit agreement to carry out contractual works and under which contracts the Ministry of Public Works assumes the obligation to repay the credit as a court. This clearly states what accounting exhibition and tie-up were made to ensure that these 100 and 640 and 577 million were not on the expenditure side of the budget, and then such an intention was to record the cost, it is clearly seen in this Article 1 where it is said that the Ministry of Finance will ensure, in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, that the funds for the repayment of loans taken by the Ministry of Public Works of the Court will be provided in accordance with paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Article for the coming years. So neither did the Ministry of Finance get a plaque from this High House that this could be done nor was this done as it was done, and that it was done as it should be done, then on the expenditure side of the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development in 2001 would be 107 million kuna of reconstruction expenditure, 2002. 645 or 6 million, and 2003. 577 million, and this neatly and Parliamentarians and all those who follow this and who are interested, could see. However, what emerged as a cost on the ministry's expenditure side of reconstruction and development is the repayment of credit. Odo last year was about 247 million kuna. So it's something that simply shows out clearly what happened at that point and what was the intention of it all together. Unsecured expenditure in the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Development, these are the three loans of 241 million kuna, which had to be on the expenditure side of the Ministry of the Sea, transport and development, which at the time when the state would have provided guarantees to HZ for these loans, were practically charged through the financing account. Short-term loans from Croatian Railways to pay workers. I was talking about it this morning. 600 million at the end of 2002. 500 million, actually 400 and 500 million in 2003. They are not recorded as the rise of the state budget although it is known when guarantees are issued which are certain to come to the state budget then these guarantees are recorded as the rise of the state budget. And now that there would be or wouldn't be slow, and that's the cost, and that's the cost, that billion and 500 million kuna will have to be paid out of the budget this year. 31.3. came to the charge of 600 million kuna, 20.6. comes to the charge of 400 million kuna, and in the 12 months, 500 million kuna comes. And that's what no one can argue, that's what needs to be paid and that's whether it's a deficit last year or it's a deficit this year. And if you see that the economic effect of these payouts on salaries and current maintenance in HZ was at the end of 2002, then you cannot possibly say that this should be a deficit in 2004 when the short-term credit has no economic effect on itself in 2004. Done unpaid work at HAC. In these materials, you were eventually assigned to the decision of the HAC Supervisory Board. You received an opinion from the Ministry of Finance which said that the government cannot make such a decision past the Croatian Parliament because the Croatian Parliament made a decision on HAC's financial plan for 2003. The Supervisory Board made a decision to amend the income and expenditure plan, so when they saw it, when it came to the government, probably, that the Government could not change the plan of revenue and expenditure independently but that the Croatian Parliament had to do so, then at the Government, the point changed to the plan of changing the construction plan. However, to amend the construction plan, you must have sufficient financial resources. If the Croatian Parliament made a decision that highways could be spent, for the construction of highways in 2003 5 billion and 600 million, I don't think anyone in this House would be against the proposal that this rebalancing of the financial plan would increase by a billion and 700 because of the completion of some stock, and I think it would be a decision that would practically pass unanimously in this House and that is what is not disputed. Why wasn't that done? Why isn't that shown? Because you know what, Croatian highways at the Ministry of Finance have delivered two data. One is accounting, so how much work has been calculated and the other is about the works done. And then when the mission of the International Monetary Fund came to the first monitoring in Croatia after the arrangements were made, when they saw a great disproportionateness between the accounts and the works carried out then it was signed in a letter of intent that the HAC deficit would be counted against the executed, not on the accounting works. Unpaid liabilities to large-scale drugs. I read to you what the former government wrote in its letter to the International Monetary Fund on 16.12, where they said 0.1% of the gross domestic product would be provided for the settlement of liabilities to wholesales. However, the amount of 533 million for which, both from this pay phone and this House of Highs, Dr. Hebrang argued, said he was lying about not telling the truth. But what I'm going to tell you ladies and gentlemen of that 533 million will be paid out of the budget this year and most of that debt has already been paid because we paid less claims back a month and a half. The other day, we settled the first currency tranche of 100 million kuna, and there was about 180 or 190 million left to settle by the end of the 7th month because a contract with large-scale drugs was signed. Also according to the signed model, the modified model of accounts and deficits, the government has pledged that all claims not paid within 6 months will be entered into the cost after six months. It is a modified model of accounting and deficits according to the accounting principle that the government signed with, when signing the stand by the arrangement, since these 533 million with 31.12. stood out six months and the government had to include it in the expenditure side of the budget, it had to show as well as unpaid claims, and it is likely that so today we would probably not be discussing these things at all, because here today we are discussing in some segments on elementary accounting matters and the increase of unpaid and registered persons of all ministries total 389 million obligations paid in the first three months. Obligations based on this guide that went to the users of the state budget not to enter into the treasury after maturity but to invent a new date are now asking one question, who has the right to change some maturity date. If you did some kind of favor or bought some product from someone. If the account states the date of maturity who has the right to change those maturitys, only for the purpose of entering that account into the State Treasury system. So, ladies and gentlemen, based on all this I said, the expenditure or deficit of the state budget in 2003 increased by 3 billion and 510 million. And what I'm trying to say here is none of these items, we didn't intervene in the books. For the simple reason, you got the budget the way we found it. To see that what we talked about here is several times that it's credible. That no position has been entered into the budget and is recorded in the Treasury. And secondly, neither did I as Minister of Finance nor did I want the Prime Minister and the members of the government to be fooled by the fact that we're doing budget-recording and that tomorrow some kind of audit says that we've been interventioning on the budget. So, the report on the implementation of the budget is what it was in 2003, and in that report you don't have this data that I was talking about, which I'm going to say once again that most of these claims have been paid in the first 5 months of this year, and the rest will be paid by the end of the year. Because that 3 billion 510 million is the commitment he made, it doesn't matter which government does this, the Croatian state has made and every government has to respect those obligations. And I think that, the whole story about whether the 4.5 or 6.7% deficit and those stories that we've had in this high home in the first half of 2000, the last four years when it may have taken us politically, at the moment when the establishment and the state treasury are being formed, and at the moment when the order is being put into state finances, it's going to become something, which is going to become quite imaginary and probably to some representatives in the future, maybe this is all going to seem, and it's funny what we've been discussing. However, at times when each, each ministry wants to be its own government and the Ministry of Finance, when there are various partial interests, a normal thing to introduce a state treasury is something that does not suit some. And it was probably a major obstacle to my predecessor that the state treasury didn't resuscitate as it should. I have to say, there are paid programs, there are paid projects with which hospitals are already finished, with which hospitals can connect to the Treasury and record costs. Why didn't someone implicate it, why didn't anyone try to do it? I don't know that. But looking at this moment at the software preparation and technical preparation for the functioning of the Treasury, and since it takes almost a year, then clearly that the project is what it is, unfortunately, that at that moment it is concerned that the project is stuck as it is. And how we like to convince each other that it's not what it is. I've got a case that one of my assistant ministers I found, who retired on a settlement, filed a request to pay for him in four months, in four years. Because the man hasn't been getting paid in the Ministry of Finance for four years. And it best shows the orderliness of some things, and the salary in four years is not a negligible amount, so we understand each other. And I can show you a request that a man has made to pay for his salary in four years. This clearly points to such benign little things that, when some things are not recorded in the Treasury, if they are larger amounts, it can have a significant impact on macroeconomic indicators. And what I would also like to say is that certain restrictions on external debt have been set and certain expenditures have been recorded at times when they occurred and when they had an economic effect, then perhaps certain macroeconomic indicators would not have had the kind of power they had. And another thing, to all those who think that I pulled that letter from under the carpet this morning to the president of the International Monetary Fund, who was mildly told at this moment a few weeks ago, was elected president of Germany, so that this letter was not true, and that everything I said was signed with a stand by an arrangement that is not true, on the Croatian National Bank's website you can come up with that information and you can see for yourself the truth. And also in that letter of 16. 12. in point 13 is the following, as foreseen by the arrangement, the Government approved the recapitalisation of the Post Office, the IFS mission was in Zagreb in November to carry out the procedure and check the bank's operations, which will be expected to result in the approval of the IFS Management Board for the purchase of 19% of the capital of the bank. And that's what's in point 13 of this letter, which was sent to 16. 12. In 2003, a month after the election and a week before the new government was due to take over. Well, it's only for you, because this is probably for this provision of this Article 13 of this letter, which was signed and sent to the Director of the International Monetary Fund, you didn't know. There he is, ladies and gentlemen. What the Ministry of Finance found was that 3 billion and 510 million liabilities were not recorded. We didn't talk here, even though you got into the materials of debt problems to the church of 251 million. It is not mentioned here in the materials here either those lawsuits which currently have several tens of thousands due to unpaid Christmases, regressions, overtime in 2000 and 2001. This is all that will have an impact on the expenditure side of the budget this year, and above all it will have a significant impact on the expenditure side of the budget in 2005, but on this expenditure side and on other issues relating to the 2005 budget when there is a debate on value added tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12570	Thank you very much. He wants a report from the Committee on Finance and the State Budget? The president of the board, Mr. Shime Wrestler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12571	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget scheduled a session last week for this morning, regardless of these events, and then we predicted one point, and that was the VAT correction. However, as this material from the government arrived in the meantime, we have, of course, included this part today as well as that of the Interest Act in order to be more efficient today, tomorrow and these three remaining days eventually give our contribution to speeding up the activity of the end of this session. This has led to a change of agenda and allow a brief report from the board on the accounts for last year. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 10th session held on 2 June the proposal for an annual accounts of the Croatian National Budget for 2003, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 27 May 2004. Financial and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of its competence as referred to in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the act in question as the home working body. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Budget Law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred the Croatian Parliament to the adoption of a proposal for an annual accounting of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2003. In the opening statement of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, he pointed out briefly the most important macroeconomic indicators and the achievement of income and income, expenditure, expenditure and deficits of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2003. The committee discussed the following points. The new Budget Act, which applies from 1 July 2003, introduces the obligation to draw up and adopt annual accounts of the State Budget, which ensures an even better control of the availability of budgetary resources and gives public insight into all segments of budget spending, since the annual accounts of the State Budget are adopted in the National Journal of Croatia. So it's a public document. The proposal for the annual accounts of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2003 provided, among other things, key data concerning the calculation of the total deficit of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2003, which differ from the calculation of the amount of the deficit of the previous Government of the Republic of Croatia. The application of the method has led to a certain small difference, the application of the modified accounting principle method agreed under the previous “stand by” arrangement with the IMF for 2003 amounts to 6.7% of the GDP and includes unsecured expenditures of the central state budget and extra-financial funds and agencies, as well as registered unpaid obligations of ministries, extra-financial funds and agencies. It warned of an inadmissible increase in the HATS financial plan without the approval of the Croatian Parliament, which increased the HATS's commitments by 1.12 billion. In this context, it should be noted that the Ministry of Finance was in charge in October 2003 of the HATS account of 760 million kuna, of which only 530 million kuna was paid to the HATS account while 230 million kuna would have to be paid by the Ministry of Finance in 2004. I think it's done. The hospital's outstanding liabilities are likely to be high by the end of 2003, amounting to 533 million kuna, which means there is a commitment to the 2004 budget but that amount needs to be added to the 2003 deficit. In the same way, the amount of 577 million kuna that the Ministry of Public Works realised through the HABOR which we heard about earlier, and this is not recorded in the State budget for the past year. Also unrecorded increases in loans from the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Liaison amounting to 241 million kuna have not been implemented through the State Treasury. The total outstanding liabilities of the ministry amount to 956 million kuna from 31.12.2003. The guarantees issued for short-term loans to HZ amount to 900 million kuna, and the Ministry of Finance paid instead of HVP 247 million kuna. The above data indicate that the actual deficit amount for 2003 is 6.7% of gross national income and should be the basis for further negotiations with the IMF of the Government of the Republic of Croatia following this knowledge in real terms, the real deficit of the State budget in the last year must, in addition, delay the application of the reduced VAT rate planned for early 2005 if it wants to achieve a deficit of 4% or lower of the State budget in 2005. It is pointed to the need to put the state Treasury system into operation as quickly as possible, which is what we specifically set out. The State Treasury is currently in the first stage of development, which means that the process of implementation and budget preparation is covered. The part that makes the Treasury a system for information management and decision-making support has not yet been implemented, which refers to the single master book, i.e. the entire accounting system, which would include monitoring business events and transactions. Total revenues, aids were collected in the amount of €80 billion 992 million, down from the 2003 plan by €387 million. The lower achievement of budgetary revenues resulted in a reduction in income from the basis: excise duty, customs and income from contributions and income tax. Total revenue from excise duties in 2003 amounted to 10 whole 200... One million kunas, of course, we singled out which is about 4.5% higher than the previous fiscal year, but this amount is also a significant incursion compared to the plan and that for 387 million kuna. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to these data, it is necessary to better organise the control and collection of special excise duties on petroleum products in the future, as bribes amounting to 386 million kuna have been recorded. Total expenditure and net loans of the consolidated central budget in 2003 were made at the level of $86.634 billion, which is 7.9% higher than in 2002. It is noted that capital expenditure, that capital expenditures are significantly deviating from the planned values for 2003 i.e. They were reached in the amount of 10,477 billion kuna, which is above the plan for 620 million kuna. The result of such overruns are expenditure on investments in infrastructure at Croatian roads. After the debate was held, the Committee decided by majority: 8 for and 3 abstentions to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the annual accounts of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12572	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Klub IDS, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12573	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, What about this material? He's kind of, I dare say, "dog". Last year, the former government spent 87.7 billion kunas properly documented on these 546 pages and eventually lost the election. The debate will therefore be aware of the size of the 2003 deficit. However, clearly this is no longer a concern of those but of this Government, which is being calculated for 2003, wants to actually justify why it will not be able to hold a VAT of 20%. And that's actually the point of this debate. That's right. The opportunities in the 2004 Budget are such that Mr Shuker should not be envied. He has enough problems with the IMF, his party's election promises, its coalition partners, but no one has forced the new government to cut VAT. But before that, two things. 2003. Istria is from the Budget, it is visiblely pulled under quotes 48 million kuna plus guarantees for “Bina Istria” which is ridiculously little. But in 2004, the county in the Istrian budget has all 28 million kuna reserved, which is almost humiliating. I'm just saying that in time to express my faith that next year we won't be as misrepresented as the previous or this year. This applies clearly to the Primorje-Gorski County as well. Secondly, IDS will be re-proposed to this opportunity to so-called. Out-of- budget funds are already incorporating the ministries so that MPs can start monitoring them. We fight, for example. that a Visnjan starhouse that has discovered 1500 asteroids that carry Croatian names throughout the universe, Istrian toponyms and so on gets 200 thousand kunas, and through these extra budget funds is available without the Parliament's opinion with hundreds of millions of kunas. Outside budget funds, pension, health, Croatian waters, Croatian roads, Croatian highways and the 2003 Employment Fund spent 12.1 billion kuna. And this year we also couldn't discuss investments primarily Croatian roads, Croatian waters. In 2003 it was 3.3 billion kuna, this year certainly more, which will be spent again on some discretionary will of the party in power, as it seemed in 2003. This time it is likely to make local elections, that time for parliamentary elections, and that practice should clearly be interrupted once. Gentlemen, the central part of this reckoning should certainly be the deficit Mr. Shucker spoke of most, which was expressed on page 485. How long is he now? Is it that 4.5% of GDP or is it 6.7% of gross social product? But more about it when it comes to VAT alone. This time, only so much that 28.1 billion kuna was made available from VAT in 2003, each third of the budget kuna. So VAT is absolutely the highest tax, the safest income to the state and finally the most significant tax. But IDS maintains that the government has enough maneuvering space to reduce VAT by these two points. Right, it won't make any spectacular sense of anything like that, any escalating or anything like that. This reduction will probably favor traders, i.e. the economy, but theoretically every citizen in the Republic of Croatia could profit by 6 to 7 kuna per month, starting in 2005 and precisely for those 6 to 7 kuna per citizen IDS voted in favour of the Law to reduce VAT. For this government, on the other hand, the hardest will surely be this year in 2004 when 22 billion kuna and domestic debt are charged. If the government means a pregrum in 2004 it will be incomparably easier for them. Something's going to grow a gross social product. Since the growth of gross social product, the government can reach into public finances 50% of that money. They must, clearly, grow and pay, pensions, disability and the like, but in 2005, it won't be nearly as hard for Minister Shuker as it was in 2004. Especially if the VAT rate of 22% is maintained. So the question arises, which is wiser, that those 2% are heading towards citizens, the economy or the Ministry of Finance? Of the excise duties, we heard just now from the chairman of the Committee on Finance, in 2003 harvested 7.8 billion kuna, 97.5 percent planned. It should now be combined with 2002, but the thing saved the car buyers who paid 250 million kuna more than planned at the beginning of the year. How this, what should be necessary capital, should be directed to some personal means. How to function in the development of Croatia, not just an increase in external debt. It's clear, you have to drive, you can't drive without a car, but let's at least attract some relevant car manufacturer to invest in the Republic of Croatia. It's clear, there won't be any cars here, and let's not be naive. It would be unrealistic to expect, but here you can produce certain parts and not to de facto, under quotes, a monopoly on it has Buzetski Cimos that exports about $50 million a year in auto parts. Here, when it comes to excise duties, it would be interesting to see the monthly consumption of certain products, more precisely how true it is, for example, that in the 7 or 8 months less VAT is collected than in the 5 or 4 months. But when excise duties are due to me, I'm interested in oil above all. In 2003, 3.3 billion kuna or 94.3% of the oil was received. It should again be clearly compared to 2002, I didn't do it, but logic says that despite the dramatic purchase of oil in 2003, less money is coming in than a year ago. Why? Because people are saving, because their oil is getting more luxury and it's reported that in the 2003 budget, excise revenues on oil derivatives are further reduced due to the fact that oil is collected every 15 days. Let me look at three more items in this account. These are loans, i.e. loans, guarantees and deficits in the health care section for 2003 of 533 million kuna. For the bond, e.g., Japan's Jen's interest rate is 1.23% a year. At least that's how I figured it out. And at the euro 4,65% a year. In the case of domestic interest bonds, it is 6.87% a year. Now, even at the price of an increase in external debt, which is more rational, whether to pay the capital price on the ino market of 4.65%, means foreign lenders or domestic banks, notes foreign-owned, pay 2.2 points more than or 6.87%, means interest per year. So, these banks, which are re-earthed from Croatia, who also owe themselves abroad so that they can service the budget or the government, and we are constantly spinning in one vicious circle of foreign debt. So, the state is not in debt specifically abroad, it's in debt to be significantly more expensive with domestic banks, but these are in debt abroad so that they can credit the state, and we can't get out of that spiral circle of foreign debt, which at the end of 2003 amounted to $23.7 billion, and at the end of 2004, it's certainly going to exceed the $27 billion figure, and it might reach $28 billion. What was certainly commendable in 2003 was that short-term lending was done in a number of domestic banks, from Zagreb, Privredna, Postanska, Istria, Kreditne, Erste, Hubora, Hypobanka, etc. And that when crediting the state is already the safest money, the government must not, I hold, now, benefit from any financial institution. As for the guarantee, first of all, I'd like to mention Victor Lenac. Victor Lenac wasn't the only private partner to the government. In 2003 11.7 billion kuna guarantees were issued. I argue, even today, the government should engage more actively in "Lance" because bankruptcy "Lance" means bankruptcy hundreds, above all, of which craftsmen guarantee their entire assets. Those who have a company in an invoiced account de facto had to pay taxes, so VAT and other services, and billing in bankruptcy will do nothing. Finally, by the collapse of "Lenza" Croatia loses one part of the foreign exchange inflow. I claim, the river character of the maritime city, especially if we bear in mind the fact that they've lost the Croatia line. In 2003 it was protested and paid from the guarantee reserve 696 million kuna. And that's what I'm holding, this review is the best part of this report. Who left all the state bound to pay for him. In the first place, the Croatian tourism sector is so famous. I.e. the part that is not privatized, from the hotel "Lav", "Golden War", "Vodicanka", "Kaštelan Rivieras", apartments "Medena", hotels "Life", all national parks on the Adriatic are also in the group. Clearly, the Briony National Park for which the state paid 3 million kuna, and also the Adriatic, Crikvenica, Novi Vinodolski, Risnjak, Rijeka, etc., should not waste words. Here, interestingly, there's no Sunny Hvar, that's number one. And number two, are we going to privatize these companies or are the state going to resuscitate them forever? The decision is made by the Government but the privatised sector still holds some profit to the state, not just a loss like its system or system owned by it. He's carrying some investments, not just a mockery and a devastation. I am absolutely where it is possible for working stock, however, after self-management and the original accumulation of capital carried out in this country, I doubt he will live when our employment has been poored as perhaps never in the history of these premises. Clearly in this package, when we talk about guarantees, we also need to count the metal sectary, agriculture, from PIK Vrbovac to IPK Osijek and more and more. But out of the total protested 696 million kuna guarantees on the tourism of the waste 232 million kuna, the agriculture of 140 million kuna, the shipbuilding of only 11.2 million kuna, for last year, clearly this year, the minister had to allocate more than 200 million kuna to the economy of the 179 million kuna, to Istria of those 696 million kuna, the 3 million kuna of the British National Park. And finally, page 485, where the deficit of $12.9 billion or 6.7% of the gross social product, meaning the gross product in 2003, was 193 billion. It also mentions the inestions charged to large drug companies by the end of 2003 of 533 million kuna and what the minister was talking about. That 533 million kuna, as I understand it, is another one in a series of health recoverys, roughly speaking. Whether it is KBC Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, Osijek etc. The Pula General Hospital, however, has not received as many times as it has never been before. This institution is being treated by the Ministry of Health, I don't know, as if it's not in Croatia. The truth Istria until 43. was not in Croatia or 45. does not matter but thanks to... integrated into the territorial legal Corps of the Republic of Croatia and it is not fair not to resuscitate and this institution as other health constitutionals are being rescheduled throughout the Republic of Croatia because the County with a budget of 200 million kuna cannot financially cover the dubiosiss that I think annually, in a hospital that also incomes about 200 million kuna at an annual level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It just has to be understood. Finally, whoever asked for general hospitals to be county hospitals and there is nothing you can do about the systematization, the hospital's wake, the salaries, the collective contracts, and apparently the procurement will soon be centralized in one place. A legal obligation has been imposed and the funds are not secured. This budget, I'm sorry, last year's budget calculation shows something else, a local centralization that is growing into metropolisation. I fear that for Croatia it is simply not promising because such centralisation chokes the Republic of Croatia. Where the state could certainly find the future or find enough resources for sure 400, 500 million if in one different way, it would tax monopolies from those who do not know about telecommunications, tobacco industry, banks and so on. However, this centralisation, as it is today in the country, provides only one, comprehensive surveillance and that is, in my court, one extreme, unspective moment of the country where we are also a huge problem for the finance minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12574	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected deputy president Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12575	I have to correct my colleague Caina, not the rest of the hospitals in the Republic of Croatia were rehabilitated without only the Pula General Hospital, those hospitals owned by the state and those general hospitals that are in the area of special state care have been rehabilitated. So, it's not just a Pula hospital, it's not a government 1 relationship to a Pula hospital and one according to, like, a Boyenian or some other hospital. So those hospitals owned by the state were recovered.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12576	On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12577	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. At first, on behalf of the club, I have an obligation to say the following. We are here discussing how spending and spending more than half of what was created in this country last year. So it's an extremely important debate that is extremely connected to this year's economy and everything that's going on. We are discussing this in conditions in which there are quite a lot of tensions, given that the current government has officially accused the former government of quoting it: "...it has deceived the public, of course, everyone else.". Unfortunately we got this disk, the party yesterday at 12:30. I was in the election unit with the president of the state and I got it at 20 and 40 last night. At 8:00 this morning, the Committee was on the subject we're discussing from 8:15 to 9:00, and now it's a debate. We're talking about the important subject in the nervousness that's been produced, I guess next. The parliament is ahead of the situation that the IMF needs to get the VAT back because it needs to go to Washington, finish talks with the IMF. And we can't talk about VAT without clearly not talking like we saw from the opening statement without being a deficit in 2003. All this makes this debate and this situation quite nervous and hasty, which is certainly not good and bearing in mind and this report I think we have more than enough reason to worry about the Croatian economy and finances at the moment. In particular, the Croatian government has a particular cause for concern. Of course, this is largely related to public finances. Here's why. For example, we give up the VAT we proposed, or concluded, to decrease before a short period of time. However, it should not have been because it reduces the credibility of economic and financial policy because all figures were known at the time when it was proposed by the government to reduce VAT. Please, on page 18 and 19 of the State Budget Explanations that we've brought in at the beginning of this year. The government has stated that these commitments, which it's like taking on 12 billion 501 million. Now, in its explanation, it states that 12 billion are 886 million. These obligations, however she thought they could still reveal them at the same level at the same beginning and were also known when the VAT reduction was proposed and when the budget was adopted for this year. How delicate this all shows the fact that we actually have 2004 which is also all of this that we're talking about predetermined. It has gone on for the economy, measures that have been taken, have been brought in and no specific measures have been taken, and there is no more something to bring forward which could improve the economy by the end of the year. Where we are in this situation, as this report shows, is simply a plan by which we will present our Croatian interests as priorities in Europe, increase employment, a plan to increase the living standard that is a direct promise. It is now being prepared to abolish tax relief. How he will repay his debt to the pensioners. I don't know if they're paying for a TV subscription. The projects are being reduced. We support a 30% higher number of officials as he found the Faculty of Law than those who had Racan despite the fact that it went down as a reduction of ministries, ranks, etc. Medicines will pay more and more according to today's announcement by the health ministry. We give births and children inappropriately little. Please, there have already been speeches about transparency and transparency, it has been very often spoken about when it comes to finance and, as before, things have not been transparent. However, in the two financial funds that we have I have already told you, there are five board members, there are now 10 HDZ's. At the time of Racan's government, Minister Shuker and others sat in the opposition. To succeed in a transparent and visible manner. How will the government determine which local cities, counties, municipalities of this gentleman can in some projects local. But it doesn't matter before the election that's local. Within the framework of the Government, who will go with whom and so on. It's not all about transparency, gentlemen. The hard IMF is not a good excuse for PDVE, PDVE is simply an unrealistic and bad move, we have reduced 2plus 2 contributions and it was a plant that should have been done now. Moreover, debts are not the reason for the reduction of VAT and past obligations. In this year's VAT rate does not decrease to 22. She's not until next year she's proposed to be 20. And in this year, they're like peddling all these huge commitments from the past. In addition, I know that financial goids are connected, but I also know that the government said that better revenue collection would guarantee 6 billion additional kunas of resources and would cover insufficient resources. And that I'm not speaking any further, but just to point out that it's been declared in the state that the finances are in disaster. I mean, it's officially done at the government, it's not responsible enough. If finances were in a disaster, the stock market would fall, businesses would go bankrupt, the kuna course would fly, traders would raise prices, the shelves would be empty, there's no crisis in this country, there's no finance. However, it works well in this regard. We also have a problem with the fact that, unfortunately, it's not clear what's going on. We tried to push economic growth, strategic infrastructure, and financial consolidation in the past. From there and the looting, and the roads, and the restoration, and the railroads and the small entrepreneurship and so on and so on. We now have a project reduction, no cover for the cost of political promises, and there is not enough but at the same time more and more reasons for indifference arises. I have data from today that some quality Croatian companies that have been carrying out their duties within 90 days and 60 and less, are now doing so within 4 months. So gentlemen, debt obligations and budget problems always exist. We can talk about them in detail. However, it is not good for our government now to have these obligations come well and need to be maximised in a way that is constant. Because she needs a high deficit in 2003, because only in these flies can then show and realize the construction for her budget in the next period. That's not good for Croatia. It's not good for a rebalancing that's obviously coming up that's just going to reflect on the decline in investment, and so on. Otherwise, the report is very acceptable in many elements, there are also revenues shown and expenditures, and most importantly it shows that good economic trends are good. The government when it came then because it seemed that trends were downward and that depression was left in the economy. Three days ago, we see that the situation is good. Incomes are well charged 99.5% is the achievement of revenue from a very ambitious plan. PDVE increased 8.5% compared to the year before. Incomes are realised otherwise more than economic activity, and all of this actually means that state finances are building up. And here I've heard 100 times the state's finances are unsettled. There are significant conditions for the state to be in debt, the capital market is four times stronger, the year-to-year is 100% stronger, some housing savings and the second one is 20% higher, the profitability of businesses and the potential for development is very high. We can agree here and on important deficit issues that's next. In the central state, there was a disbursement of the goddesses, gifts for children, part of the drugs was above schedule, and there was a problem with the salaries of judges and MUPA at the end of the year. That's those items that Mr. Minitar is talking about, as a unit of budgets, remain partially intact. It was recorded that it happened unfortunately, under the pressure of collective agreements and others. This was not aimed at promoting the election and others, because it was far after the election. But it had to be done. It's about other things. One word when this is is I want to stress about the deficit we agree here in the next agree he was last year planned to stand by the arrangement to be 5%. It seemed that it would be possible and 4.5% of what we agreed on and agreed on in one of the standard papers that is now being glorified as some famous letter, and these are the pipira more, which we together made by the IMF and we. Evaluating that the situation will be better than 5%. Here it is now showing actually that the deficit in that part is about 4.9 of a consolidated state. And that's where we can talk about some details, but basically things are clear. This is also confirmed by a national bank bulletin which you can check number 90 per page. In 60th, which suggests that the state's net debt was in a tight relationship with the deficit, so last year grew to 4.15th, so the deficit was about 4.8 or 4.9, 5.00, 501 or something about it. And that's what we can talk about. The second is the insemination of everything that's now agreed to go into the budget. And there's a major reflection that's hard to understand. I have to say this about that. There are 4 methods of recording,...86,..01, there is also a model and there are modifications to the international monetary fund. We did not accept what the international monetary fund insisted on being accepted. I see he now includes and the government accepts the HABOR, and everything about HZ and so on. But tomorrow the IMF will demand that other things be included under his authority in stand by arrangement. Why not Ina, why not Post Office Bank she's as state-owned as HABOR protects those costs of other companies. I assure you that the international monetary fund is spreading as it has spread in Latin America. In Costa Rica, Guatemala, pain, Honduras and so on. It includes not only such state banks and state-owned companies but also others. However, we did not agree to the model of Latin American IMF in the calculation of deficits. And that's all the difference and all the problem. Once again, I will say that if it were up to the IMF, we would start building the road to Split Zagreb. On August 24, 2001, we agreed on a decision to go to that ugliness. That construction would have lasted the next 10, 15 years if we'd listened to the IMF. It wouldn't have been, but it wouldn't have been the way it was made. The IMF is a partner to negotiate with, with which it cannot always be reconciled. Therefore, we have achieved that, in the context of the modified accounting model, it is achieved that contractual obligations with follow-up are t-v-v-v-v. ...there's a record of this, but the deficit is only due. What has come to pass is a question between the rest of the teens, made a commitment when you built the foundation of the house or when you finished the house. If we hadn't built the roads in 11 and 12 months, you'd be building them now from the 1st and 2nd months, and you'd have paid them in either case unless you gave up on the roads, and you shouldn't give up because you can finally solve all the financial problems with this country if you have to. It's similar with the renovations that are often mentioned. Please, the recovery situation is specific. No one has helped Croatia restore it, which is unique in history. We were able to get it at a high level to distinguish the costs of the renovation, to do the renovation quickly, but to pay it in a time when it is possible to settle. So instead of a perfect accountant, we wanted to be good and responsible for Croatia's interest here, and thus, of course, some obligations now come into play. It's normal for them to come and it's good for them to come and the houses and everything else to be restored. Or let me tell you something else. Let's say health care is always listed here, and here I have to conclude, any minute now, let the president say more. But in health care, you have now inherited 530 million debt. Excuse me, I inherited a billion and 700 2000. In addition, health care is such a subtle system, sensitive and difficult to deal with constantly. After all, the minister has declared the state of emergency now, and there will be more of these problems. So all obligations are not deficits. We got that in agreement with the IMF and out of these 12.5 or 12.8 billion liabilities that have been imposed as old liabilities is in fact only about a billion, a billion and 100 million commitments that can be considered as normal to treat as a possible increase in deficits, not everything else. Everything else is a big story I told you about here. Still just...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12578	Thank you very much. Don't. Or you'll answer more, there'll be an opportunity to... Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12579	Mr. President, I would like to correct the incorrect allegations of Mr. Honorable colleague of the Mother Church where he has claimed that this Croatian Parliament is being coerced by the IMF to return the VAT. It is true that the VAT reduction cannot be carried out due to the mandate of this year's budget and the untrue display of the real situation and contractual forms concluded since the vote was called until 1 month 2004. That's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12580	Correction of the incorrect allegation of the respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12581	Mr. President, it is quite incorrect to say fellow MPs that this government has incorrectly informed the Croatian public of the budget deficit. She has quite accurately informed the Croatian public who has the right to know, that subsequently unpaid and unsecured liabilities amounting to 3.5 billion in the way this government's manoeuvre has been reduced. And it's quite incorrect that speaking of trying to cut VAT, we said it was possible to charge six billion. It's possible to charge 3 billion, but 6 certainly isn't as long as it takes to settle the deficit found. And I'm not going to talk about other items right now, but if we're talking about 3.5 billion, then it's about 170 million kunas per county that could be spent, and they're already spent in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12582	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12583	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of the esteemed Mr. Representative of the Church, that by giving up the VAT that all the figures were known when the VAT was proposed. Unfortunately, neither the Croatian Government nor the Croatian Parliament knew the information we are now talking about. The deficit was shown 4.5 so that later the constitution of this government would come to 5.9 and now we are talking about 6.7 and I agree that the embezzlement that was present was not necessary, that all the items knew which we are now talking about, and without the knowledge of the Croatian Parliament and without the approval of the Croatian Parliament were increased items and financial plans, as well as in the Croatian highways for a billion, 1.12 billion, in the Ministry of Public Works are also not shown in the budget, for HBOR 577 million kuna, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12584	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12585	A fellow Churchman said it was on the IMF they would never start building the Zagreb-Split highway. So you didn't start making the Zagreb-Split highway. It was just a little while ago, you just set it up so you didn't have to worry about it. And secondly, you said you had a financial consolidation plan to make. Well, she didn't exactly make it as far as we can see from the 2003 score. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12586	Correction of the incorrect allegation of the respected representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12587	I'm correcting an incorrect assumption, because it's incorrect that this government is accusing the former government. I would say only one fact: this is that the deficit of the Croatian highways of 1.6 billion, which is higher than the planned deficit, is not taken into account in the adoption of the State budget rebalancing for 2003, because the rebalancing of the HAC's financial plan has not been implemented to give consent to the Assembly which is entering into a consolidated revenue and expenditure plan of the state budget and extra-financial funds. They're facts and it's indisputable with the fact that this government is in a state of affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12588	Correction of an incorrect quote, please fellow Churchman please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12589	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer to Article 209 but also to Article 214. Most of the gentlemen haven't corrected any false allegations. They hurt the Rules of Procedure. Please, I've stated by saying that all obligations are not deficits and that stands. And it's also a fact that, for example, the State Treasury today 90% of all liabilities paid directly before we arrived was 10%. You can't talk about ineffectiveness and impotence. They're not corrections, they're no credentials.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12590	My dear colleague, I followed closely and wrote down. The claims you made were corrected. Let's look at the phonogram, each of the MPs who challenged it, challenged your specific factual claims. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12591	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. A fellow Churchman said it was good for this government to have a high deficit in order to justify this and that for God's sake. That's incorrect. It's good for this government, and it's good for the state to have a government now that has decided to put order into public finances, and it's not good that it inherited a government that wasn't really that, it was a set of ministries that obviously did what they wanted and produced this great cost and deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12592	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12593	I am correcting the imprecise quote of my fellow churchmates who said that the outstanding debts of Christmas payments are for the children, which he himself claimed to be true of the debts, but that it was not at the time pre-election. Unfortunately, in 2001, I will remind you, the collective contract was signed with high school and primary school unions in 2003, no one paid those Christmases or gifts for children, in order to sue schools in late 2003. And now they're coming to collect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12594	Minister Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12595	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I'll start with that last finding of my esteemed predecessor, Dr. Church, when he said that he had been found in debt of a billion and 700 million in health care. Yeah. But also when we talked about that debt, then I said as a representative, God forbid the next minister waits for the same debt. And just for the sake of the truth, for the sake of the public, you didn't pay back that debt, you were in charge, you issued bonds that came at the end of 2004. But unlike such a way of settling the debt to the health care of these 533 million has been settled without a new debt. So much for the debt to health care. And I'm sorry you didn't polymize with me on concrete facts. I listed here concrete figures, concrete financial events, concrete financial transactions with time, amounts and those involved. I've mentioned several times that you signed a stand by an arrangement in which you'll be calculating the deficit according to a new modified model. You also know as well as most of those who follow the state budget, that the budget of the Republic of Croatia is being violated in cash principle. Why did you sign this modified model? Why in the first letter intend to change the model of the HAC deficit account, you know better than I do, because you participated in those talks. But I'd like to say something. Once again, there's a very interesting thesis that doesn't have a single little piece of data to argue with. And that's the story of Croatia's indifference. If at this point 1700 companies are less blocked than they were at the end of last year. If the state settles all its obligations, and if the truth is that you said you've made all the arrangements, then I don't understand who's producing indifference? Another, if we are talking about accountants and bookkeeping and very successful financiers, then I guess one day the Croatian public will need to be explained, why benefits are given for early execution of certain construction works, which do not have any economic effect for their temporary execution. Which means opening the chapel tunnel prematurely if it's not done by 30. Six, whether it's early 12 or 2 or 3 months. Why is there a $20 million benefit? How much of that $20 million could access roads be made? Let's talk about it when we talk about accountants and successful financiers. Based on orderly finance and orderly bookkeeping. Without orderly bookkeeping, there's no orderly finances. Namely, we can call each other whatever we want. The other thing is, the truth is what you said about the funds. The Development and Employment Fund began to deal with one very strange activity. We have business banks, we have HBOR, the state is in charge of covering its expenditures, and at the same time the Fund for Development and Employment has started to deal with credit activities, they are, by some standard, selected by companies to which one part of the credit is given to them by a fund for development and employment, and the other part of the credit is given to them by commercial banks. and then best when the Fund for Development and Employment gives a company a loan of 5 or 6 million, the second part of the loan gives him a commercial bank and then the commercial bank gives the Fund for Development and Employment a guarantee to repay the loan. So if we have HBOR, if we have commercial banks, then why do we have some kind of credit fund, and at the same time the money from the state budget goes to that fund and probably part of the debt, because that fund generates expenditure. Let's ask ourselves a question, who's in the interest of having another system of credit through the Fund for Development and Employment above all these lending systems? and by what criteria are these defence companies? The best thing to do is to write a law, then by law, you get one credit, you get another time and you get a third loan. Well, that's what I, as chairman of the Trust Management Board, couldn't possibly sign. And you know very well that the Regional Development Fund project is a project that is primarily run by Croatian counties. So, the mayors, where various political parties are in power, somewhere in HDZ, somewhere in HSS and SDP, somewhere in IDS, so you have different governments. Therefore, county heads are proposing projects to be financed through the Regional Development Fund. And it doesn't matter how much the fund's supervisory board is, it matters how high-quality programs are to make those funds come true. Also a very interesting thesis that goes through. All that's wrong is HDZ, in the past and in the future. Everything good, the good world, everything wonderful and wonderful in Croatia began with the coalition government. That's amazing. You're talking about how you inherited the negative economic trends of 2000. That's not true. You had rising economic trends in the second half of 1999, and in the second half of 2000 there were negative trends. And these are indicators of both the CNB and the Statistical Office. But fortunately, these macroeconomic indicators in the first half of this year look far better, regardless of what this government has no economic programme and what it does not know. But it's all incriminating from someone else and that's how it's supposed to be attributed. But when someone wants to invent indivisibility in Croatia, when it comes to someone having to issue 500 million bonds on the London market, it is all in the best interest to get the Croatian delegation in London as high as possible, the best interest in Croatia. Because you know when it comes to liquidity, when it comes to the height of external debt, it's all positive elements. And that's what people in today's government used to say. So we're talking about things as real as they are. I'm aware of that I said in my opening statement, that there were objective reasons where she couldn't react. But also some things just shouldn't have happened. Or another thing, if at the moment of taking over the Ministry of Finance I got all of this numbered, if it were unpaid, then this debate would certainly not be the way it is. But go blame someone else all the time. Very interesting why did this House not discuss the report on the implementation of the budget for the first six months of last year? Why did this report come to the assembly benches, and why did the representatives not discuss it? Why do many positions in the budget look quite different than the budget looks? Why did one of the former ministers at one of the previous sessions convince me that the current reserve spent was 178 million, waving paper, but now it is seen to be 350 or so million as it was said. But it's important to blur the public's eyes at the moment someone likes it. But I'd really like the two of us to stand up to each other today. And the methodology was signed by you, not me. And secondly, according to that same methodology will probably a new stand by arrangement contain the data of what the deficit was in 2003. The head man of the fund has changed, and everyone... the people who work, prepare the shops and everything else. It's very interesting that after the tour of both HBOR and HAC they came to some knowledge and certain conclusions and then they said, it's really just like you claim. But it is also not good to fear that this “stand by” arrangement will bring such terrible things to Croatia. And probably none of these people knew about... The disabled, nobody probably knew that. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you signed it neatly. And you're gonna say again that you didn't sign it, but I'm saying the situation is what it is. This government doesn't run away from the problems they are. The macroeconomic indicators and revenue collection in the first five months give us faith that we are on a good path but everyone has a chance to express his opinion and to justify what he says. But I say it is not good when at certain times that are very important for the Republic of Croatia... to spread panic as in Croatia and so on and then to claim that bonds could be issued so much, so much sooner and so much later. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This can be said by one who does not know what it means to prepare for the road show, which means preparing for the issue of bonds and that it is not a 24-hour job, that if you want to do a high-quality long-term job. And the other thing and the results that have been achieved by issuing these 500 million-euro bonds show who is right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12596	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12597	The panic that in Croatia the riot was produced by official statements by the government that, that the finances were in disaster. They are not at all in disaster, but they are inherited in a state that is not bad when it is a state, there were no unfulfilled commitments that have come to pass. That, I was speaking very further concretely and to the arguments that 12.8 billion liabilities are not deficits or are not all deficits because we have achieved this methodology and agreed on it by not accepting everything the IMF is asking for. I'm sorry, just to add, the two funds that function ask Vartex who, through them, has returned to Serbian markets by taking all of his department stores. And I particularly resent that you have used the name and the name of the assistant who has not received 4 years' wages because it is a man of the world format who has had the pension of the United Nations and lived on it, and because of the family tragedy that his family has suffered, he has prayed that for specific reasons he credits the state and does not receive his wages rather than receive them later. So use it, use it, use it as proof of the irregularities of finance..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12598	On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative of the Arthrial Shima.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12599	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The budget calculation for the previous year does not necessarily need to be calculated between parties and individuals. But how we have a reckoning to inform the public of the state of affairs, of course, that is why seeing it is different. At the end of each year, basic targets are also set for the following year, defining the other instruments for the realisation of these objectives when adopting the budget. Of course, a possible disputed point, obviously it all comes down to whether the deficit is these or those that I will ultimately briefly comment on also condition the objectives of next year as well as the instruments. Likewise, a certain monetary policy is, of course, a causually related historical one on the instrumentation of fiscal policy and then those development objectives. Today, the figures here have 570 pages or how much, of course we're all slightly handicapped so much material that it's not possible in the details to analyse, so now I'm just going to try to point out what's important what I think has been conditioned and in some way directed last year but conditioned and conditioned some steps in the following year because we're certainly all concerned about the height of debt and internal and, in particular, foreign debt that is going to conditions in the country this year, and especially in the state of the economy. In the context of these discussions, it is possible to withdraw arguments both, but only a few data that I think I can in some way clarify to an ordinary citizen and also to an average educated representative, I mean on a professional basis, that we are not going with specific professional clarifications in order to understand what happened in the budget in the previous year. In the consolidated budget in the previous year, we saw that in incomes and receipts we actually failed in some areas that are freely said to be a little strange. Of course, if we don't know all the details and information about it. Why? Well, even the last time we discussed VAT, we also sort of argued. We will not only stick to the VAT, but also to other economic instruments in the following year, and that is to say, the tax on income, which are particularly expensive excise duties, and we now conclude that customs and excise duties in the previous year are pretty much below schedule. So I can only, by the way, comment a little bit in a joke that here's the excise on oil derivatives in the summer months when logically it would be to follow the season that those in that period have a sort of descending trajectory. Why? A little bit of a joke, we're saying that maybe it's happening that the Americans didn't implement it, they produced an invisible bomber. And it seems that our INA drives derivatives to invisible trucks or tanks and in other ways, so the effects of invisible traffic happen invisiblely in the budget and thus excise duty on that basis, and so some other excise duties are, of course, not shown inside or at least not achieved in the size in which it was intended to be realized. We'd all be so much happier if that were the way it was. Other revenues have certain deviations. Of course, one who explains should give a brief explanation of economic policy, why we saw this in the environment of economic policy that it happened and a slight fall at the end, especially at the end of the year of certain economic activity. I'm not going to take those numbers out either, of course, because they're all written, but if necessary and later we'll elaborate that data. At the expense, we saw what was happening both bigger and commentary part of the expenditure that was going on and the deviations that caused the disputed deficit that occurred. Especially what I'm saying here in public for a pay phone, it's surprising if it were true, I repeat, if it were true, recently I've been with some performers and very large performers of highway work so little to discuss informally, and there's a statement that they've been banned, I repeat publicly, forbidden to invoice the works done with December 31st of the previous year. If that were indeed true, then I am really concerned about such a situation, and I think that in the interests of all together it would be good to know that such things don't happen because in the end and every average family, let alone the country at the end of the year has to know its condition so that next year it can manage such a situation more easily. Of course, regardless of even the elections that take place in one or the next period or another that would be related to a possible change in the political option. Within these deviations, we have seen in particular that these deviations are significant in this sector or in the infrastructure segment, and by all segments as all these data has been summed up, I will not again present them for the reason that, because countless data are difficult to track, but in the end about 13 billion, 12 886 billion, which, given the GDP of, the amount of around 193 goes to the indicative, then the deficit of 6.7%. And we can argue about him one way or another. I especially single him out for reasons why he could probably define himself in his structure in another way. As part of this deficit is particularly concerned, I repeat this pre-calculation and attitude, and possibly possibly arise that actually some costs or expenses cannot be known or that, I would like to believe now finally and definitely puts the point on and, and that we end the deficit at 8.7%, 6.7%. In the context of this and the unpaid liabilities that have come we have heard in fact already in the analysis and should also not specifically discuss them except the fact that they, in the end, when all income and receipts are summed up on the left hand side, and on the right hand side all expenditures and expenditures, what do we do? Either procedures on one side or procedures on the other side. Therefore, by the revenues and receipts within the structure it is clear what we have achieved and depending on what we have set in this year to try on the sector, we have briefly shown in the introduction, what to achieve. At this point, given that a new request is being made "stand by" arrangement. We had it before, we had it now. We would probably all together, as the entire Croatian public would have been more pleased if he hadn't been there before, and he's not here now. However, we are bound by certain contractual and other obligations, especially the situation in charge and in this sector, then of course we must take care of how the state and society lead forward without entirely leaving our national destiny in the hands of others. That we have as many instruments to control the movement in future time. Inside that, I think, or we think of the HDZ Club, that it should be a draw behind it at last. Of course, any budget calculation at the end of the year will be a suitable time and area for indicating what was wrong then. And so, again again, I repeat, that these three things that we said, which make up the structure of the deficits within it, which make up the structures of particularly awkward collective agreements signed at the end of the year, and which, of course, are now now partly passed on to unrealised liabilities from last year, so I tie them up because the initial period in this year planted from the previous year. And that the deficit that we wanted is not expected in this context, but I'm also setting a slight doubt, and what will happen with the monetary policy and inflation that we wanted, we said last year, 1.8% seems to me, it doesn't matter that many nuances in the context of it other than strategic objectives. In this year we said, the same 2 whole and some percent inflation. Now, if the deficit is one, of course that instrumentation is adapted to it. And if that deficit is something different, then it turns out that this instrumentation is going to be something corrected within these deviations. It seems to me that we would still be happier and happier today if all the instruments of public finances control were finally in place in the last year, which means that the Treasury was placed and that the state of funds could be controlled at any time. The minister presented the data, several data on the number of giro accounts, subcalculations and other developments. One question is, the IMF missions and me were, and why do you think the accounts? Because I can't answer, but today I can say that within so many accounts, given the amount of funds that are on them, at the same time we have funds, it's called a vista or by seeing in different banks. About 1% interest, and at the same time we pay for the loans we borrow, interest or fine if you want for unused loans, and interest rates themselves are bigger which we pay for that part of the loans used than the ones we keep on accounts and sub-accounts. That's one of the reasons. Another reason can certainly be to be difficult, Mr. Caine was on to something, that he could hardly be controlled in such a situation as he has in which accounts. I mean, different ministries, that it's hard to manage each other. Of course, it will be a goal and interest to correct these weaknesses that we see in the budget in the previous year in this year or in the next year. Therefore, if the winnings are at the end and very recently established treasures and that will be the gain and, of course, we want it to be one of the strategic goals. The second goal, of course, is not to stop at the moment, but to continue even more aggressively with the change in the tax policy that we have been told that we will continue to carry on our activities and I assume that only now, at this point, is it for this situation, and also for the sake of negotiations, that we must finish that part of the work that awaits us. Personally, we from the HDZ Club would not agree in any way that all of this is a dictatorship, just or a dictatorship of the IMF, for the simple reason that we are all of these measures, and also for the stability of society and for the ultimate stable permanent goal of trying to stabilise internal responsibility, especially international responsibility, with all these measures. Because in this year, we've heard the grades of different, but roughly the same, that it's a huge repayment of particularly international debt, which means they're going to ask us for different behaviors, and none of us are particularly prepared or has needs, in the end, in particular to deny certain social policies. If we were to implement all these goals that we have established that they can be removed and can be realized. Inside that desire to keep that deficit in the eye frame, I say again, about four and a half, 4.6 or 7% in order to be a success in this year with a tendency that it must fall gradually in the coming years. It would be logical if, given the economic environment and the situation, economic growth continued, gradually in the framework of the budget this year, and next year, the incentive funds that it will achieve will deliver results. Monetary policy is also not today or nor can we discuss it here, but of course it should also be coordinated and try to follow these goals that we set before us. Now, if we wanted to achieve in some way, and I think we're going to be close to agreement, just different views on how, to stop public and external debt with such a deficit and with possible these measures that we would have achieved in this area, then in this sense we should discuss this budget today in a way that it is as it is, that we can ask a question and, of course, we're going to say that it stands in terms of VAT and other objectives, but also that a question and personal responsibilities can be asked why, in the structure of the deficit, especially in certain branches or in certain areas, a derogation has taken place, and especially beyond this House. Because as far as the Budget Law is concerned, this House should or should have made such decisions. In this sense and in the past, but also in future time, that then finally the Croatian Parliament makes all these decisions and that the possible and impact of the structural funds within it is discussed, I think of our internal ones. But certainly as we like to say, transparently, the citizens see how we spend state money. This, briefly, we will accept this budget calculation and we propose to accept it. From it, draw lessons and try these stories about the previous possible, by concealing the data that we have seen in certain areas, to be the last story and that at the end of each year the neat house is handed over for the beginning of the next business year and that we can accept such a budget. I thank and think that they are nervous, especially for HDZ, in this report, that is, there is no budget, but that we will continue the discussion at VAT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12600	I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to apply for 10 minutes in 15.51. It is up to the honourable representative Jozo Radoš on behalf of the Club LIBRE and to ask the respected Vice President Đurđa Adlešić to continue to chair.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12601	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I have to show regret that this debate is being conducted on these topics, these topics should have been absorbed long ago, and the implementation of the state budget should be an opportunity to really look into the work of individual government resolutions, so as to see how some resolutions, especially at lower levels, used taxpayers' money. This is a debate only at the political level, we argue in fact about whether or not some data is like this, which is, of course, I repeat my assessment a major step back in the work of the Croatian Parliament and in the functioning of the state as a whole. When we talk about these disputes, it only makes sense to talk about them, because they are the only ones who are current, that thus shows the report of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, which is almost fully concerned with these issues, and is not concerned with how a single portfolio has been responsible or irresponsiblely implementing the state budget, and then, of course, since it is a particularly prominent topic of the Croatian public, unfortunately it is the only thing that makes sense today, so I will talk about it, even though in this cacophony that has appeared in the last few weeks, and in fact, this is the continuation of the same story since the beginning of the work of this government, it is very difficult to give something new, which would explain relations. Because it is obviously an interest that these relations are not clarified, that it remains exactly the way it is, that it remains unclear, that then a policy that is unclear could be implemented, according to which, in which it cannot even be responsible for what has been done, and equally cannot be responsible for what has not been done. And that's what I mean by the full truth of what's being said here. But I would, of course, ask a few questions or problems related to this current dispute, whether the government knew or could know that these were the costs. First of all, it should be noted that in every democratic country it should set some minimum time after the handover of authorities that should not only be formal, they should still contain something within themselves, and our handovers are mostly formal. But then after that, it should be a few months to know exactly what the former government has left for the current government, so that there are no new data after that 30 days. This way, we really don't know when the discovery of the alleged hidden costs of the former government will end. Is this going to last half a year, so we're approaching that deadline of half a year or is it going to last depending on political uses, political needs, is it possibly going to take four years of office if the term of office is so long? We really can't know that. Because if a month isn't enough, it's not enough. If it takes half a year to detect alleged costs that were unknown, then it is possible that even four years will not be enough, and then we will always be bombarded with new data, depending on what political interest such a climate in society creates. And it's truly devastating. No one here has disputed that these data was formally hidden. If there was a dispute over how some things were shown accountingly, then it was only necessary to look at them, look for reports in those 15 days, the first 15 days of office in the 10th Croatian institutions, the state budget, the Ministry of Finance and various budget funds, institutions and obtain full data. Has anyone been hiding that data? Is there a civil servant who was led by those institutions who refused to give that information or gave false information? No one's saying that. So, after a month, if that was the way it was supposed to work, it should have been clear what was actually inherited from the former government, and then give a political assessment and then try to go some new way. Because what else would it mean? It would mean, or that the officials who led these sectors, and the government's authority to change them, were in fact insubordination, insubordination, or that the entire government, or the finance minister, or those same officials, were incompetent. I hope the Ministry of Finance and the Government doesn't want to agree to this second conclusion. Therefore, it remains that there was no real will to determine it, and then today it can be used as it is used. To make the matter even clearer, one of the ministerial assistants was the man who was the assistant minister before 2000, for a time an assistant minister in the assembly of the former parliament, or the former government, and was again an assistant minister. Well, I guess this man knows that some things, accounting in this country, whether it's good or bad, should have been absolutely clear, if not for others, not for the loyalty of civil servants, then certainly because of that man who, and not the only one who knew well what was done before 2000, which was until 2004 and what was done in 2004. But obviously there was no willingness to do so, but in this way, depending on the political needs, these data are getting high to cover up, of course, what has not been done or some wrong moves or some of the moves that have been announced, and they could not or would not have been implemented, but were only announced to win and win power, and then we have other models to solve something. I'm afraid that's the point, and when this technology is, and obviously it's the government in Croatian politics, unfortunately, instead of moving forward towards public and clear costing, we're going back. For example, Minister Hebrang, who was able and unable to put it, immediately included in the debts of the Ministry of Health, including all those loans that come at the collection in 3, 4, 5 or 10 years, all of which the minister put as debts, and even letters of intent, namely, letters of intent of the Ministry of Health, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia with counties on the construction of some projects, which is the current government, or the Minister of Health, or the Government could challenge, it was all put into debts that were allegedly left behind. What can we say about that? What can we say if we behave in this way, then we always have the opportunity to blow these debts away, because that we do whatever we want, what we want, and what we do politically at that time. For example, the method of calculation in Croatia has always been the same since I followed these things more seriously, so since 12 years ago, it's always the same, always costs of 12 months more than it should have been, but that's the case, they're being transferred to next year. This was the 99th year compared to 2000, etc. And so I will be convinced from 2004 to 2005. This is the way you do the calculations in this country, maybe you should stop with it, each amount of the costs transferred should be lower, can't be completely eliminated, because some costs simply come legally at the checkout next year, but you can't stop at that suddenly. What that means, for example, in 2003, is that there would be expenses in 2003 every 12 months plus expenses of 12 months in 2002. Then it would be a expense not for 12 months but for 13 months. Well then, the government budget deficit again would not be relevant in that sense, so these are the things that we can very easily agree on. I believe that otherwise, the transfer of those expenses from last year to the next year is too big to be reduced. We will welcome all the efforts that will be made in this regard but will not be possible until the end of last year to pay off in that last year simply because of the legal deadlines for payment. But it's minimal that we can agree on that and that this is why we don't keep making up new costs for the former government. I repeat, if the HC's plan was exceeded by 1.12 billion kuna, then it should have gotten that information from those highways in the first 15 days. Similarly, the Ministry of Finance and the HABOR, which is a state institution, will certainly not deny the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry of Finance the exact information particularly that those who run those institutions often know and monitor what is happening in politics and often go a step ahead of what they have to do as professionals. But in this sense, it is certain that the data were not unfair to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that the issue was to be solved equally with the Croatian Railways, the Croatian Privatisation Fund, etc., during the first 15 or a month of government and not after that constantly inventing new costs. And make it even clearer. The former government does not dispute that these costs were made just talks about how they were booked in a different way. And I'm also saying no one said that those expenses were hidden. They were hidden from those who did not want to or did not want to discover these costs, so they were constantly discovered. They keep discovering the same thing, and it lasts not for a month, not half a year, but it can take as long as anyone wants. Here I will point out when we talk about the implementation of the state budget another fact, the Prime Minister when he spoke about the Value Added Tax Act said that three billion kunas can be compensated and that he cited the sources and ways to do so and said, using natural raw materials, obviously more responsible than it was then, by operating public enterprises, obviously better than it was then, by reducing the gray economy, obviously, by better supervision of the business and the grey economy than it was until then, and by reducing the administration, it was all said here in the Croatian Parliament on 28 January this year that a statement by the Prime Minister could be replaced by these measures by 3 billion kuna. What's up with that? What was done in that sense? It's been half a year. The only thing I can suggest is that there was no reduction in the administration, but as we know, there was an increase in the administration. What has been done in other segments is difficult for me to say, I hope we have relevant data in that sense. Similarly, there was talk of introducing discipline into public finances, this is not a demonstration of clarity or discipline in public finances because if there is no clarity there can be no discipline either. The same way it's going to be a reduction in the administration. Then, speaking on behalf of the club, I pointed out that we will closely monitor these segments of the work of the new Croatian government. Unfortunately, in this sense nothing has happened, nothing has been presented to us at all, and we are still dealing with whether or not a cost has been made, and not about whether we are really able to make these big moves, such as these steps the government has spoken of and such as introducing discipline into public finances and reducing the administration rather than spending money on various social projects and neglecting the development of this country. And it is time to finally and as representatives and, of course, as the Government of the Republic of Croatia, turn to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12602	Thank you very much, colleague. We have five registered representatives to correct incorrect allegations. First enlisted by Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12603	Yes, Madam Vice President, I have reported to correct the incorrect allegations from my colleague Rados, who is saying that this report on alleged costs, I remind you that this is about the actual, exact costs which are very precise according to the paragraphs and are talking about the works in HACU of 867 million, about the loan to restore the third tranche 577 million. About the unrecorded withdrawals of loans to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Liaison of 241 million, since the increase of unpaid taxpayers in the cost of a material ministry of 392 million, so a total of 12 billion 886 million. And another incorrect allegation, that the budget is being transferred in the following year, so the specificity of the budget is precisely the financial year and 31. 12 is the date when each cost should be completed and payment recorded. It's just that it's not the cost of being on the spot and at the time they were created, and if it was done like that, there wouldn't be a lot of problems here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12604	Thank you very much, colleague. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Rados, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12605	Madam Vice President, Article 209 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Croatia, Ms Trakostanec, came forward to correct the incorrect allegations and did not do so. I have not said for a single hour that these costs, which are supposed to be costs, are actual costs, I was just talking about the Croatian, former Croatian government, or its members not to dispute these costs. I was just talking about how the costs were suddenly revealed, no one disputed that these costs were made, I was just talking about how there was a difference in the way of bookkeeping.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12606	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12607	And I am calling for a breach of Rules 209 and 214 because I am correctly correcting the incorrect assumption that I was writing down the moment Mr. Representative spoke and stressed the alleged costs, the current dispute and other things, please read in the phonogram. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12608	Thank you very much, my colleague. Perhaps I should have waited to give you my word, but okay. Let's go, let's move on. The next correction to the incorrect quote by Željko Nenadić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12609	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A respected colleague, Rados, tried to deceive the public on this occasion, saying that the costs of the health ministry were put into account by those who came to collect in 3.4 years. It is not true because if the contracts for the purchase of equipment were concluded in 10 or 11 months 2003, they come for payment somewhere in the 1st quarter of 2004 and that is an incorrect quote. And it is also incorrect to assume that we constantly reveal as the Government of the Republic of Croatia new and new costs, not they are discovered now and the IMF is proof and their finding is proof that they exist indeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12610	Thank you very much. Looks like we have new methods of responding to the corrections of an incorrect quote. Representative Radoš, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12611	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Nenadic injured Rule 209 because he did not correct my incorrect allegations, he has just confirmed what I said that in healthcare debts the costs that would come at a charge of 2, 3 or 4 years. If that's how we're going to do it, then the state is in charge, so it could all go into the budget this year for $24 billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12612	I have a feeling that those who listen to us are even less understanding. Let's move on, Agent Kajo Bucan, correcting the incorrect allegations, please welcome fellow MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12613	A colleague, Rados, said, is not true that Minister Hebrang put even letters in total debt. It is true that Minister Hebrang put even letters in the construction of certain counties and cities into total debt. In total debt is put into real debt and due and non-accessible obligations, and if you do not believe that I refer you to a phonogram of the session of the Assembly Health Committee, and written material delivered by the minister on the request of a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12614	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The next one is for correcting the incorrect allegations of a representative of Jure Bitunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12615	Thank you, Mr. Radosh said the following. Within 15 days, the government could learn about the situation in expensive finances. It's simply not true that it's simply impossible, especially when we start from the fact that the current government has had 125 accounts and several other subcalculations. On the other hand, he also talked about administration in terms of transferring responsibility to the chamber. I can also say that what characterized the situation and what characterizes the state of state finances is a weak record of concealment, i.e. not showing certain costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12616	A fellow MP slightly expanded the correction of the incorrect allegations and seemed to me to be polemized with a representative. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12617	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Bitunjac said that I said that so I hurt Rule 209 said that I said that the government could get all the data within 15 days. The flock I didn't say, I said within 15 days she could ask for all the data from all the institutions and within a month have the right picture. Therefore, this was not an correction to the incorrect assumption, that is, that is to say, and Mr. Representative injured Article 209. It's a job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12618	A fellow Bitunic injure the Rules of Procedure, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12619	I listened very well, and Mr. Radosh is wrong when he corrects the rules of procedure for my observation. What I wrote down is true and we can see for ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12620	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I suggest you take a look at the phonogram. The next one is representative Markovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12621	So here's Madam President, I'll quote correctly. A fellow Radosh said, we're making up the costs of the former government, if necessary. Therefore, the costs are indeed indicated but there remains reasonable doubt that a good portion of the costs is hidden in different accounts. Which we'll probably discover again after the first time. We're still talking about debt, it's a debt because by this logic if we owe something and the war comes 15.1. We owe nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12622	Thank you very much. I hope we can move forward with the debates on behalf of the clubs. Next is the club HSpa, the respected representative of Tonci Tadic. Here you go, fellow constable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12623	Honorable Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. In this report on the implementation of the budget for last good, or budget calculation for 2003, we were most interested in the macro-econmic framework in the club HSpa. Because you'll forgive the budget being charged with taxes and taxes can't be well charged if the country's general economic situation is bad. Equally, tax policy can destroy entire branches of the economy several times. We hold the same that it is very bad when tax collectors actually dictate the situation in the Croatian economy. First of all, here it is found in this material that last year it recorded the decline of the gross domestic product and, first of all, it is due to the decline of the personal supply. What is not strange is the growth of GDPs in Croatia until now was based on the first review of major state construction procedures or on the development of shopping centres. And if there's a break in the store for a little while then we automatically have a GDP downfall. What is equally related to this structure of the Croatian economy is, of course, imports. Imports recorded strong growth, imports last year were eight billion dollars higher than exports. And that's really worrying. Such strong imports make such a difference in part with tourism revenues of $6.3 billion, but we also hold that tourism income to be observed far less optimisticly since the notorm is the fact that the annual era of the tourist import season is close to a billion dollars in food. So, tragically, the increase in tourism transport does not mean a greater possibility for domestic exports than it does for foreign food products. What's also indicative here is that GDP growth was based on the growth of construction activities, of course, it's a large part of the plant due to highway construction. But also tragically, these highways were built by Bechtel and other foreign companies, which means that their tax revenue was being poured out outside Croatia and did not return to the Croatian state budget. It was actually in the US and Turkey's lovely budget. What to do after the highways are completed, of course, we hold that the possibility of building a fast track system should be considered, in Croatia and thereby further improve the transport connection of Croatia. All this is happening, of course, in the context of the international exchange of goods and services that Croatia has with the European Union, as well as with the rest of the world. The Kuna course was practically tied to the euro and was slightly oscillated from the euro last year but was very varied according to the dollar on the one hand created a major problem of Croatian product incompetence. But it also questioned profits, for example, in shipbuilding or through fishing industries, which is also a very significant export branch in Croatia. No matter what you think about those who think about giving up the economic belt these days. So these are the circumstances in which we have to look at this budget for the past year. In these circumstances, under the circumstances of strong imports, it is really not strange that PDVE registered an 8% growth, that it amounted to 28 billion kuna in the last year and 38% of budget revenues, respectively. In these circumstances it would really be extremely unreasonable to go on any experiments with PDVo in terms of its general reduction and we have opposed this generic VAT reduction so far. Of course, we too wonder where such a mysterious drop of excise duty on tobacco and oil derivatives comes from in relation to expectations. But we're not surprised to see a huge increase of almost 20% in excise duty on motor vehicles. Despite the fact that customs duties are slightly removed from the racers, there is a clear view of the strong input of goods on the Hotvat market. So much for the tax system. We believe that the current VAT situation is such that every experiment with it is highly risky and that if you want to go on tax experiments that it is far better to do so in the field of income tax, which was also the advice of the World Bank to all transition countries. But unfortunately here I have to look back on this, recent practice of mutually accusing the former and current authorities of whether there is a debt or not, how much debt, who has deceived whom in this regard, and so on. First of all, the same person is sitting in the Ministry of Finance as assistant ministers before and now. I can't believe Mr. Raic would cheat on himself, himself. The same people are sitting as ministerial assistants in other ministries. And I believe it was very simple to get the data that was going on. You'll forgive us, Mr. Minister, it sounds extremely unlikely that two months ago you didn't know what the state of the state was? And let me remind you, there were first of all warm talks between the former and current prime ministers during the handover of the government, and it began to be said that there were still debts, and there were warm talks between the current minister and the former finance minister, where debts were said to be large but for the benefit of the people, and then again they began to draw debts as an alibi for giving up VAT cuts. So these are circumstances and we at the HSP Club are really sick of it. If, if necessary, we'll establish an investigative committee and then we'll figure out what the facts are, is there a debt, is it bigger than it's declared, or isn't it? But let's stop accusing ourselves here and accept the facts as they are. But what I particularly want to apostrophe here, which I especially want to stress is that it is very bad, I repeat that it is very bad for the Croatian state to say that there is total chaos in state finances, that the state is in a terribly difficult financial state. If it is very bad and very irresponsible to dedicate the entire cabinet session to it because it practically means the following. I'm going to give a very simple example. You want to decide, so you decided to invest in a bar and now the owner of the cafe says to you: “Listen, old man, it's all fine, but look at my coffee shop and the cockroaches and rats are running around spreading mold, all the devices are completely in a coma, my water leaks. It's all completely destroyed. Who would invest in that bar? Of course no one. Such a practice may still be tolerated by the opposition itself at the time of the election campaign, but such rhetoric is heard by the state government, which is definitely referred to in every country in the state of the state register, than the opposition, that is, you will forgive very unseriously especially in the situation if you plan to reprogram the loans and by placing new bonds. So who's gonna buy them for you? That's what this is about. Therefore, it may indeed be so, but then it is required by the honored Mr. Minister and the government gentlemen, the responsible public debate here in this House, and in that debate three months ago, he insisted on the HSP Club. But that's the debate we've been having, but we haven't seen it, but instead, there's a flat-rate review of what's going on in public finances. So all of this, of course, connects to the IMF's demand to change the tax policy in Croatia. We'll talk about this especially later when we get to the line with VAT for discussion. But the fact is that in the past ten years, Croatia has passed all possible variations of communication with the IMF. I have, and we've also had consultations under Article 40. The Statute of the IMF. And the enhanced supervision regime and the “stand by” arrangement regime and the extended “stand by” arrangement. We tested everything. The last government had two VATs in the game, two “stand by” arrangements in the game. The same is true of only one thing, and after repeated requests from HSP, she held a debate about what we are getting into. But equally concluded was the “sal” arrangement with the World Bank. These two arrangements and “sal” and “stand by” actually had a whole series of negative consequences because in them the former government had committed itself and I believe that this one would commit to a whole series of unpopular moves that led to the privatisation of major state systems, to the reduction of salaries in the state administration, to the announcements of the privatisation of the Post office bank, to the amendment of the Labour Act and so on. So I am responsible for saying: all countries that go to the regime “stand by” arrangement are, in fact, indirectly showing the IMF that they do not have their own over-development policy but expect the IMF to suggest what they should do. Now that's the real state of things. Therefore, following spectacular announcements during the election campaign on the perfectly developed economic vision of Croatia offered by HDZ, we are now entering the situation to ask the IMF for recipes. And when IMF is asked for recipes, then listen to what Josef Stiglic, the former IMF chief economist, says. He literally says: “The IMF is carefully considering the situation in each country and whether it is Indonesia, Thailand, Croatia, Argentina or some third country regardless of the causes each gives the exact same recipe for a solution to exit from the crisis.” So that's all you can get from the IMF. So I expect this Croatian government, the HSP Club expects this Croatian government to come out with its vision of Croatia's development and yes, and to tell them that this vision of Croatia's development is fully scientifically founded and that we have better solutions than several IMF officials can give. If we do not have that then of course we must accept solutions from the IMF but we have made it clear and loud to them and others that we are actually unable to create our own vision of development. So much for this implementation of the budget, and we look forward to a debate about, uh, VAT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12624	Thank you very much, colleague Tadic. The following has been reported for discussion on behalf of Klub HSLS and DC counterpart Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12625	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is generally known that man or community does not become addicted or even slave to others primarily because of physical conditioning but primarily because of psychological reasons and mental conditioning. And sometimes we might even accept that we are materially addicted to someone but the worst is when we are addicted in such a way that we are not able to think for ourselves or when we are addicted or even in some slave subjective mentality because others interpret our position, because others need to tell us the truth about ourselves or even because others need to explain to us the ways out of such a situation. I would accept regardless of the amount of patriotism, wrestling, how we view the civil order of this country, I would accept the IMF mission if I were not ashamed as a parliamentary representative and as a citizen of this country that we need the IMF today to calculate our budget deficit and that today the IMF should explain and interpret to us how much Croatia actually owes, how much we are in charge and how many tails behind the last government. I would therefore recommend a bit of a metaphorical game, a game of words that instead of an IMF mission we call one PMF show, math students. I am convinced that they would very quickly calculate what Mr. Racan and the Church failed to calculate. One PMF mission would calculate how much Croatia is really in charge today and what our budget deficit is. Because ladies and gentlemen, if today we impose on the mayor of a city like me or Mrs Adlesic or Kramaric or any of us here, that all obligations must be recorded in the current budget of the current year, the sea. So all commitments made by the local self-government unit must be recorded by that small municipality that may hardly end with the end of the city, the big city and the county, all what has arrived and has not been paid is recorded on the burden and on the cost of the current budget, so it is a modified cash basic. I don't really understand how this same state and the same Ministry of Finance led by former Minister Dr. The church committed by the local self-government units did not do so for the state budget. When you take what a local self-government has to do today to become serious in the eyes of the state, it's thousands and thousands of papers, forms, applications that you have to fill out, guarantees that you have to get in charge, but that same state didn't do it when it comes to the state budget. And today it really turns out that our guests, our friends, or our enemies, as you will on the outside, need to calculate our budget deficit because we are not able to do it ourselves. I don't accept that. Maybe it wasn't in the condition of the former government. Maybe as my colleague Rados says, this government should have done it within 15 or 20 days, but I don't accept that we are not able to do it ourselves. Because if we're not able to do it, if we're not able to interpret our current position ourselves, all those tails and mortgages that we're pulling behind us, be assured that we won't be or we'll be even less able to determine the direction of our development. And that's why I'm asking nicely not to have a debate about it, whether it is the current government of the former, rather than actually having discussions about what this budget deficit means to us, and it means to us what I said in the morning, it's all very much the same to our citizen whether this deficit is 4.6 or 6.7 in terms of the fact that it's too high anyway. Of course it's harder if it's even taller. But if it was only 4.6, it would be too high. If these duties were as recorded here today, they're too high. Let's just accept whether or not we were supposed to be in debt, and I think, HSLS feels we shouldn't be in debt without a decision by the Highway Council, even if those highways were built 20 days later. We should not be in debt without Parliament's decision, as the unit of local self-government, municipality or city cannot be in debt without the guarantee of the state. So we should not have done it without this House of High. Therefore, regardless, we are all aware and I think we must tell the citizens openly, that Croatia continues to spend, that Croatia continues to spend more than it can do and that we all practically live on debts, that we all live on loans and the explanation that loans are not part of the budget deficit is a story for small children. We all feel very good about spending more than we can earn, and that is why we need to talk about this annual accounting and which is why we should also talk about the issue of VAT reduction. It is not crucial whether or not the figures are like this, but it is crucial whether we will do it without the help of the IMF or the PMF, so without these students who can calculate it, and I am confident that I can calculate it, whether we will be able to interpret ourselves where we were wrong and what we should do. So far, the only thing to talk about may have been Tonci Tadic, because it is obvious that with this kind of management and with this kind of economic policy as we have led so far Croatia will continue to spend what it has not earned, Croatia will continue to be in debt, Croatia will either be on the threshold or has already exceeded the threshold of the social crisis and the Croatian citizen will eventually, as I said in the morning, regardless of the methodologies of the IMF or someone else, feel on the methodology of his own skin that things are not going well. We do not have to offer our citizens methodologies, at the end of the month, in their pay bags or baskets or in their needs they feel very well, so by using the methodology of their own skin or one action life research every day they feel very good that Croatia is unfortunately not going in the right direction and that what we are talking about is 4.6 or 6.7% of the deficits are feeling very much in everyday life. What we also cannot accept is the fact that today we want to explain that 30% of this debt, high debt and high debt is the debt of the state. If the governor of the National Bank claims that about 70% of that debt is under direct or indirect control of the state, because for many of these debts are state guarantees then I think the alarm bell is ringing and then I think we all need to be aware that it's precisely these 24 billion dollars that we owe today that it's actually, let's not speak 70%, but certainly half of it under direct or indirect, unfortunately, state control. Well, that public spending of citizens is somehow under state control or should be under state control simply because of the fact that precisely by monetary and fiscal policy measures that high public spending is possible to stop what the state unfortunately did not do. What we're already talking about as HSLS and DC is particularly interested, is the fact that someone's already referred to here, that unfortunately excise duties are falling, that excise revenues are falling and that from this high public consumption, the personal consumption of citizens of some $20 billion of ladies and gentlemen of $2 billion is just buying cars. 10% of it was spent by our citizens to drive in slightly better car brands, and we all know that to encourage imports because we don't have domestic automotive industries, and in the end to help the trade lobby, so the import lobby. We did not invest it in production, we did not help domestic production regardless of thousands of shares "Bought Croatian" but actually spent $2 billion on exports, into imports. We helped the automotive industry of European, Japanese and other producers and, in fact, it was only paradoxical that all of this was not known about the increase in excise duties, i.e. the income from excise duties and the increase in taxes, i.e. the parataxes on oil derivatives. How is it possible that we bought more cars, that we spent 2 billion, so 10% of that public spending on cars, and that all of this in the increase in excise duties was not shown or recorded. It's just a sign that tax evasion is high, it's just a sign that something doesn't work either in the bill or in the charge. I'm afraid it doesn't fit in the bill or in the bill, and at least it's worth monitoring how these excise duties are collected. It's just as amazing that in one country where the morning exams become a food habit, we all have to admit that. In which alcoholism may even be greater, greater social evil than drug addiction, in which almost all folk songs are related, let's go have a drink, suck it up. The one where you drink it without being stopped by the police is almost a sporting success. How is it possible that we unfortunately have less income than excise duties? And when we, as HSLS, demanded that these excise duties be raised because if they can do so by the most social states of Europe, the Scandinavian State, Norway or Sweden, then I think Croatia should do so. Reduce the labour price, unload the economy, and just raise the excise duties to pick up more. Unfortunately, that, ladies and gentlemen, we all see it from this annual accounting, is quite visible, Croatia unfortunately cannot raise on such excise duties, and even all of you, perhaps you will be angry, smokers who we smoke here, and we should not. I'm not a smoker because the Assembly building is just the fact that tobacco processing is also costing us excises, and let's just say here, 20 meters from the Parliament, you can buy cigarettes that have been smuggled. This tells us that unfortunately, supervisory restrictions in this country cannot end and that this is exactly why excise duties should be increased, but even more control. So I think this is a good opportunity, no matter how we talk about the budget deficit, to tell ourselves the truth in the eye. To accept an agreement with the IMF, but never again allow the IMF to explain to us that the IMF interprets what we are wrong and that we have not recorded correctly, recorded and that we have not interpreted well. Let's start with this government, maybe zero, maybe we should think about one continuous account monitoring in four years. So, not just for one year, because every serious government and every serious political community, ladies and gentlemen, is giving itself priorities for four years, not just for one year. I know it's not possible to do a budget calculation in two or three years, but maybe there's some possibility. Maybe this is exactly the State Treasury system, that we have a continuous calculation of all budget revenues and all budget expenditure and that at any time we can tell each individual citizen and the entire public of this country how much Croatia is really in charge, what is the budget deficit and what is actually waiting for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12626	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Sime Luchin's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12627	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I think Mr. Chehok said one notorious lie, which is that the Croats are alcoholics and that conclusion was drawn on two basiss, as he said folk songs that are not at all folk. And at the very least, I think you should apologize for that, no matter what the excise fees or anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12628	I just don't know where there's a correction to the incorrect assumption, but we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Chehok, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12629	Well, I think Mr. Lucin hurt his Rules of Procedure because he first incorrectly stated my statement. I didn't say anywhere that one people and our people were alcoholics. I'm just saying that alcoholism is a bigger problem and a bigger evil than narcotics in this country, which shows research. And I said it was disproportionate to the fact that we have less income on excise duties. But you should know that as a former Home Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12630	Buddy Chehok, was that an article? A fellow Czecho? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the HSS Club representative Zeljko Pecek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12631	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. After this presentation of Dr. Chehok, I'll try to evacuate the memories a little bit. The first memories of HSLS' participation in the former government so that probably a little bit of ash should be poured. We spent some of this together. And the second memory I'm going to evacuate is the handover of the government that I, here's the receipt of the circumstances, performed with Mr. Porges, the esteemed one, where we drank coffee. I took a few sheets of paper, and we talked about what was going on back a few years ago, and we agreed that we'd talk and see each other if we needed to. We shouldn't have, we haven't heard from each other or seen each other. I closed that book and tried to think about the future. I knew what I found. I don't want to be bad here, but the fact that the social gross product was -0.9. The fact is, we had about 400,000 people unemployed at the Bureau. I'm talking about latent, except for the records, so, Mr. Minister, we can also do the calculations on coffee. However, what was also very important, and this is an international environment. On the fingers of one hand, we can list the statesmen who came here to Croatia, and also our officials who went outside. Which means we haven't had any more serious foreign investment. We tried to make the privatisation without success, and our investment was in stalemate. See, that's what we found, but we didn't talk too much about it. Just one detail I admit, I used to say sometime in April when we were already acting in power, so, four months we paid for the wheat from last year, so June or July. That's how it was. Don't let God be like that again, and that's why I suggest we talk more about the future, and less about what looks like pre-election speech, because don't be angry, but most of these shows look like we're about to get into elections again, and it's probably totally unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12632	Excuse me, colleague. It would be good to talk about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12633	Thank you very much. I'll do my best. Thank you. So... So HSS is going to be either way for one deficit analysis that's been made, but we'd like to talk about the results as well. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Minister, you didn't say anything in any sentence, what's called the macroeconomic environment in 2003. Here on 400 and a few pages we have a lot of data on which we should probably say something, and first of all, I think that the growth of the social gross product in 2002 was 5.2%, in 2003 something lower, but 4.3%. And we can also say that we've had good trends in construction, in industry, we can do it here, and I think we have to say that four years in a row, state spending dropped by 0.3%. It was the policy of the former government, it says here, however, no one simply wants to talk about it. We have to say that 3 and a half percent of the building permits were issued compared to 2002. We must also say that we had 7% of the arrival of tourists in Croatia, more than a year ago. We have to say we had 4% more nights. We have to say that employment has dropped 13% in a year, it says here. But we also have to say that it was found at another relatively high level of 19.1%, which it also says here. What we should all talk about together is called another deficit, which is the balance of payments deficit, and we know what it's like, and we probably know why. I suggest that we concentrate on this issue, because we still have an unfavourable relationship between imports and exports and that deficit was at last year, as 7.2% of the social gross product says here. However, equally there we managed to raise international reserves to one more than a correct level. What's characteristic of that budget that we're discussing, that we've collected incomes of 72 billion 698 million kuna, that's 6.9% more than a year ago. However, we at the HSS believe that this is also a special topic. It is obvious that in 2003, as well as in this, more is spent than possible. I guess we all need to talk about it here, and the awareness of the ability to spend the state in those frameworks that will continue to create growth, which will create a reduction in unemployment, which will create a launch of production, a focus on exports, etc. I'm undermining we're spending more than options. Now should we link this to the value added tax, probably not. We can completely separate those periods from each other. However, what we would like to see when we discuss both visions. What to do with such executions as I did earlier and whether this deficit has affected negatively, or whether we have some positive trends in the growth of social gross employment products and elsewhere. Mr. Minister, are you familiar with economies in some, including our close countries, even overseas, where the 12, 13, 15% deficit is and that they are very successful? We can probably list five such countries that are not the problem. Because they have a vision, they know what they want, they have a development plan in a few years, and they're not just saying it backwards for a few months, or for a period of one year. What the HSS will oppose is, in any case, further growth in state spending. You have announced that you will send new solutions to the craftsmen who work, have a registered craft as a work-related activity, that they will pay additional contributions. Of course, we are against such procedures in the citizens' pocket, especially for the reasons that these contributions and do not give any rights to pension insurance, let alone health insurance. For this reason, we will insist that after the number has been executed, we put ourselves in relation to our wishes and possibilities, or I would ask you to say quite precisely whether the rebalancing of the state budget awaits us, because all of this that we've been talking about and we're talking about gives cause for us to go into rebalancing? However, you'll have to tell us a little bit, if after 5.6 months the Treasury could have been fully operational, especially since we know that you have stated that there are complete infrastructures, software support, and I believe that there are also people who know how to consult, or consume that infrastructure. Is there a lack of political will to put the state treasure into office again? I believe the solution is exactly on that track. I'm asking you also to speak fully of any new government duties here. Because if the state is in debt at home at a rate of 6.87%, are banks interested in monitoring Croatia's production, are they interested in monitoring exports, or if they are, which is the interest when the state gives them the guarantee that they will return at an annual rate of interest of almost 7%? It probably would take a much greater consistency in all of this, but what it shouldn't be is an additional tax press and we're going to confront that tax press in HSS, we think this shift in the state budget is enough through VAT for two index points. It should go to the field of gray economy to pay for those who still successfully bypass the state budget. However, they would also like to see additional charges for entrepreneurs. We would like to see some of the opportunities that the state will give for tax redundancies in profit and income, and of course we will have to reduce labour prices. That's exactly where the HSS is looking for solutions and we'd like to hear from you what you're offering us. We're looking for efficiency, we're looking for an efficient economy that's going to be able to use a slightly larger deficit for a reason and have results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12634	Thank you very much. Minister Shuker called. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12635	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In fact, gentlemen of the House of Representatives, this is a typical example of what only fits. Thus, the external debt of the Republic of Croatia increased by 14.5 billion dollars. The public debt of the Republic of Croatia increased by 56 million. Unemployment remains the same despite so much of Croatia's debt. The foreign trade deficit grew by twice, while the state was in debt to the maximum. So if these other macroeconomic indicators were better, then we could probably talk about success. But I would like to say something about mandatory contributions. The bottom line is, I'm not gonna use the hard word, but it's unusual for someone who's had a chance to solve that problem, not to solve it. You were sitting in a government that passed a law that was radical, and I have to say it and I said it as a parliamentary representative from this pay phone. With which you have brought to a terrible disadvantage thousands of young journalists, thousands of peasants, and thousands of craftsmen. That's what was said for this pay phone when that law was passed. You've been warned what this law will bring. When the first payments arrived, then one minister from the former government said, tear up those payments and throw them away, you won't have to pay them. At the same time, your government has passed a regulation saying at the time when income tax rulings are being traveled that a solution will then be needed to make a mandatory contribution. That's what you did. This has nothing to do with this government. This has nothing to do with this government. Therefore, if you wanted to help the craftsmen if you swore so much, then as you made a series of decisions at the last government meetings after the election, you could change this decision. And don't accuse this government, Mr. Representative, that we're sending out payments. We're just implementing the law that you've passed. Nothing else. And I'll just tell you that, is the basis for the income calculation, i.e. The difference between receipts and tax-recognised expenditures has been determined by your regulation. Until then, there was a fee to be paid over the year. There's an exact calculation that you've re-determined by your regulation. So the example of the one who has the difference between receipts, the cost of 20 thousand kunas, will have to pay 7,000 contributions. Why did you bring such a law? I don't know that. I'm like a parliamentary representative, you can see it from a phonogram in the debate, warning that what's going to happen will happen. And now, together with journalists and craftsmen, we're looking for a solution to get out of this solution, because the problem is the retroactivity of the law. But very interesting, same as the other day around the HRT VAT, something that you've made to transfer to this government now and say that I said that the payments would come. Well, Mr. Representative, I guess someone has to enforce this law. And if that law doesn't work, I said, we'll change it. Another thing, a 12% deficit that Croatia has a 12% deficit would like to see which international institution would lend to Croatia under what conditions. And would you have come to me in the interest zone a long time ago? Third thing, the Croatian state is not in debt at an interest rate of 6.75%, I don't know where you read it. You have something called short-term loans, which was a problem for both past governments and these, which is that you take money in the money market in the short term, where the interest rate is higher than normal long-term borrowing. State Treasury. So it's amazing that you who have had the opportunity to establish you haven't established, you're teaching us now that this state treasury could be established. I'm telling you here responsibly, and I never told you that it can technically be established very quickly, that technically it takes 8 to 9 months, 8 to 9 months to establish that treasurer. But I repeat, the state today owes $15 billion. Public debt is more than 56 billion kuna, unemployment is the same, unfortunately in the second half of the year the economic trend was downward and these are the results that you left behind because working on the growth of gross domestic product exclusively on external duty is short breath policy and you have led the country to what you have led to.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12636	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I'd just like to give you one piece of information. At the beginning of your response, Mr. Minister, the television broadcast stopped. This is indeed a subject that it is a shame that viewers do not have the opportunity to hear the answers. We're going to correct incorrect allegations. First registered representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12637	Thank you very much. No matter what television broadcast, Mr. Secretary, I didn't accuse you of anything. Nor did I say the former government made an ideal move. But you, if you can change the VAT Act twice in two months, you can probably change that Regulation. I just said what the HSS would support. But anyway, we're going to support a change of that regulation, so things are very simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12638	Thank you very much. Comrade Leko, correction of an incorrect quote, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12639	Thank you very much. I think it would be very correct if the government's representatives didn't say the MPs were accusing them. If we're going to discuss the principle of discussion, I'm going to quote what the minister today said in 2002 about stand by, actually, the deficit. "I said and beg you here in Parliament...", I say, today's minister: "...let us agree on a methodology to determine the deficit.".
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12640	Excuse me for correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12641	The minister accuses us of accusing him. That's neither allowed nor correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12642	I think these are called style exercises. We're going on behalf of the HNS Club, PGS, colleague of Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12643	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives and MPs. The interpretation that this government has inherited 6 and a half, 9 and a half or 12 billion of which have recently been said to be 1.7 billion of waste on stimulating housing exposes its willingness to use the government's untrue alibis for its failures. The stenogram of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament of 27 February 2004 shows that Ms. Minister of Environment, Spatial Planning and Construction in this Government, Mrs. Dropulić, in replication of the amounts presented by Mr. Cacic, explicitly claimed that the debt was transferred from 49 million to 1.7 billion. Unfortunately, in the Croatian Parliament reports, there is a tendency or lack of exactly that part. But, gentlemen, we have a copy of the stenogram. Please, if you'd like, I'll be happy to give it to you, but you can take a look for yourself. However, neither the 49 million is a debt nor will it ever be because citizens who buy apartments under the social promotional housing programme know best that they pay the full price of the apartment and that part that you put into debt. And the state has only made this product accessible. 19.2% of the country's initial participation in this programme is returned through VAT. Well, he was 22 or 20% who wouldn't have come in anyway if there wasn't a realisation of this program. Therefore, since the POS is neither a transfer of 1.7 billion debt but 49 million realisations and the other 1 billion 651 million are not debts because these jobs are neither done but contractual obligations have already been transferred. As it is clear, through the POS, how the figures are being manipulated by the same model are being manipulated by numbers in other areas as well. A billion or better said HABOR's 956 million loans were used for the credit financing of contractors in the programme of return of cross-borders, refugees and displaced persons, allowing the last Government to open the procedure for obtaining a positive avis, and finally obtaining the same and progress in obtaining candidate status in the European Union. It was these funds that enabled the return of Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality but allowed a return to property occupied by exiled Croats from Bosnia and that was precisely the topic which was of grave importance for the affirmation of Croatian politics in approaching the European Union, as is the key topic still today. The same model as how debts are interpreted in POS is interpreted and debts on highways. By clearly telling citizens it is not about debts but about paying the works done on the highway according to the contracts, and the cash model of the deficits predicts the fixing of the deficits predicting the determination of the current charge deficit. The example works, all completed works from last year according to the contract are paid and accounted for in this year as this year will be calculated in the next and next year. On the other hand, the debt records are carried out by signing contracts and issuing guarantees. So Croatia's famous debt in highways is already being calculated last year, and that's exactly how this government is going to put 200km of highways into operation at 306. In 2004, he was going to cut the tapes and charge the last government. Therefore, it is simply a matter of the timing of the recording of the debt with the absence of a model which would have recorded the debt prior to the works carried out or prior to the contract of a defined charge moment. This is where I'd like to refer the audience to Mrs. Dr. Svaljek, which has been published in the newspaper "Dnevnik" since 28 May this year. From there, I would quote something: it says that the government simply mixed two accounting principles with cash and accounting, which results in significantly greater deficits. So far, the cash principle has been applied, which means that the obligations are recorded at the time of execution, not the signing of the contract. The government has clearly added to this the accounting principles, i.e. just agreed obligations. But of all honesty, he discredits this government the incompetence of his experts who have sat in this House of Representatives and in the past term. Who until yesterday's violent desire to meet election promises and with opposition from serious and responsible opposition parties insists on reducing the VAT rate and today, not four months later, the same government after looking over the negotiations with the IMF requires a change of decision and...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12644	My fellow Members, I must warn you that we should nevertheless take care that the debate is being held in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12645	It is a startling lack of awareness of the importance of development projects. On the one hand, the inability to design development projects, on the other hand, to prevent positive effects in the public of the projects launched by the past government, such as encouraged housing, and the third necessity to reroute budget funds to buy survival in power. For example, pensions, the purchase of social housing in agreement with the SDSS, puts us in a dangerous position to minimise the need for average GDP growth from 5% to only 3 and a half percent. In doing so, investment funds are transferred to public consumption, closing the cycle of economic ruin already seen in 2000. Comparing the period 1995 to 2000 and the period 2001 to including the first half of 2003 in contribution, we can grow domestic demand on this chart, and I will also give you all to gain insight. Otherwise, it was published in the State Statistical, this source shows that the role of personal consumption as a source of growth remained on average less unchanged, the role of public spending in fostering growth in the economy decreased significantly and achieved a negative trend in growth after 2001. Finally, a positive change is a strong recovery of investments after 2001, especially after the negative contribution of gross social product growth in 1999 and 2000. The policy that increases public spending is not gentlemen of social policy, but is just a merciful rhetoric of buying votes. Only development policy can recover the economy, create jobs, and then offer vulnerable groups a better quality social programme. Therefore, we are asking for a clear and unquestioned development programme in the interest of all Croatian citizens. And one more thing. As for Mr. Chehok's debate, which is currently not here, I would also like to remind him that it belongs to a party to HSLS who, in the past term, has been participating the conduct of the coalition government. Thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12646	Thank you very much. I suggest we go to correcting incorrect allegations. Representative Zeljko Nenadic first called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12647	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is incorrect that the construction of apartments is not long in 2003 simply because the apartment was to be made, paid by the performer, and how and how these apartments will be sold it will probably be delayed over a long period of years because we see that there is not so much demand as planned. And the second incorrect assumption is that the debt created for the roads can be recorded at the time of collection. That's not true because it's illegal. Budgetary accounting does not suffer the recording of the obligations created at the time of collection but at the time when the obligation was created and that is prescribed by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12648	Thank you very much. The next correction of the incorrect allegations by MP Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12649	Madam Vice President, I wanted to correct the incorrect allegations that my colleague Nenadic had previously corrected about his debt in POS. She would have specific information about the sale of apartments in the town of Sisak and about when it would be charged.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12650	Thank you very much. The next correction of the incorrect quote by the representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12651	Yes, I would like the Vice President to point out that it is incorrect to say that the contractual obligation is not a debt. It's only a debt. Each contractual obligation is only a debt, and all that is not paid until 31.12.2003 is the government's obligation and, of course, not only in 2004 but in the coming years, depending on what it says in the articles of the contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12652	Thank you very much. I hope we can go further in the debate. Minister Shuker. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12653	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It's really weird how hard words can fall on one side all the time, and some make up even if they said something they didn't. Madam MPs, as far as the HABOR is concerned, ask whoever you want, you've had to enroll in the posts of the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development that year. That's the mistake you made. Why would you do that if you had a government decision? Why didn't HABOR take out the loan and pay the contractors neatly? That's what you know best. It's another thing, HATS. If everything's as clean as you claim it is, why'd you change your plan? You could have done what you did and no problem at all. You asked for an alibi for what you did, for which you had no right to do. Don't keep selling pathetics about it, you didn't start building highways. The highways began to build someone else, but you started to share good foams, those positive for pre-executed works, although it is not clear to God what you are paying for, what needs to be done in advance. Incompetence, very often heard from your party. And what did you competently do? What? The highway? If I'm not mistaken, you said eight years ago you'd be growing mushrooms in the St. Roar tunnel. So why don't you grow them now and sell them on the market? ... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12654	I'd like my colleagues and colleagues to allow the minister to complete the presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12655	This is probably the same thing as political culture. I've never done anything like this in my life. But look, ma'am, the country has sworn to heaven that all secrets may be known. So you haven't been able to cover your tracks in time, either. So you can say whatever you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12656	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I hope we can go to an individual debate. The first one checked in...... Please be nice, the first to sign up for representative Stazic. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12657	Madam Vice President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So I think this debate is actually just a preparatory debate for that point that follows. To reduce VAT, it means to give up one pre-election promise, one of Prime Minister Sanader's guarantees for which this point should be prepared and should be given what, such a convincing reason. You have to explain why there's no promise. And it all actually comes down to the question in this agenda point of what is the deficit? Is he 4.9% as the former government claims, or is he 6.7% of the GDP, according to Minister Schuker and Sanader's government? How much of this deficit depends on the method of calculation? It's probably both accurate, the question of what method we're using. There are, they tell me four known methods in the world that the deficit is being calculated. We're talking about two here. About two different things. One used by Prime Minister Racan's government along with the IMF and the head of the commission, Mr. Klinkenshild, where the government based on the cash principle means that t-rings are recorded at the time of collection, and another method used by the government of Prime Minister Sanader...co-operation with the IMF this time with the Head of Mission Demeska. Which says the costs must be recorded at the moment of the commitment. So-called In the case of a vehicle, the vehicle shall be equipped with Which is a better method. They're probably both better, the question is which one we're going to apply. When expressing the unemployment rate, there are two methods, one method of survey is another, this method of registered unemployed. And they give different results. You know, in the same country, one method is the unemployment rate 17% and 21% on the other. The unemployed are always as many as there are, in the same country-- the question is what method you're going to use. What's wrong is not a good way to get rid of methods. I would ask the question whether the HDZ government has used this equivalent today to express the deficit it left for Racan's government after the January 3rd elections. It's not. It's not. And if it were true, it would be comparable data like this, they're not comparable. This is how we talk about apples now, now pears, now plums, on purpose. Of course you did on purpose. Now why does Prime Minister Sanader agree to change the accounting method? At the request of the IMF, because it's just a courtship of the IMF or it's just a sign of weakness, is it asking for such excuses from giving up the VAT reduction. Or both. I believe both. A fellow Linic tried to explain the difference in these methods in a single example in the forum yesterday. But there was cacaphony, noise, squabble. A very simple example, a sneezed roof, is what you establish in 11 months 2003. You can talk to the roof that's gonna make that roof worse for you. You sign the contract in the 11th month of 2003, and it naturally rains snow on 90% of the works in 2003. You have a contract that you'll pay him when he's done all the work. He said that the works were completed in 2004, when they were due to be recorded in 2003 when you signed a contract or in 2004 when you paid for it. And when he did the complete work. HDZe argues in 2003, according to one method another method says you should not in 2004 when aces paid. Most importantly, it doesn't matter when you book it. You've paid for the roof repair, and finally what's important is that your roof is fixed. Don't let it leak on your head. Sanader's government is now seeking to record the costs at the moment of the commitment may be macroeconomic. No one's against it. I'd just ask, when was the obligation to rebuild these houses that were burned completely blank after the Storm. I think that commitment was made when they were burned. There I should write them down to those, to the burden of those who have done nothing to prevent this completely senseless arson. Who now pay all the citizens of this country to repair these houses to all and those who at that time warned that it was madness. And who then warned the then government to stop it. No one listened to them. Today they must pay taxes from which those houses will be restored. When there was an obligation to pay compensation to surviving members of the Zec family. You know when the night they were killed. And that commitment lasts this year, 2004. And the obligation was made because they were completely insanely killed, and because your perpetrators weren't punished. Because he was trying to do everything he could to get them to go unpunished. And President Tudjmah even decorated them for an extraordinary act of courage. It really took courage to kill an 11-year-old kid. We pay for it from the budget, dear gentlemen, from the budget. From the budget. We're talking budget deficit. And about the moment of the commitment, I'm telling you when that obligation was made. When there was an obligation to pay for road construction. Yes, it was created when a political decision was made to go into the construction of these roads, and when contracts were signed. You claim then, book them so they can be recorded and different, but what's important, these roads exist today. And you know the obligations always come, and the obligations always need to be settled. Only one of them remains the obligation to repair and rebuild burned houses and pay compensation for killed children. And the restructuring of the destroyed and stolen economy, and behind others remains the obligation to pay for road construction, viaducts, tunnel breakthroughs, and in health care to obtain gamma knives that are completely painlessly and harmlessly operated on tumors without opening skulls. There's a difference between you and us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12658	Thank you very much. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. Representative Zeljko Nenadić first called.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12659	Madam Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, otherwise this debate of a distinguished colleague of the S.S.A.P.D. is making incorrect allegations, I will only try to correct a few of you allow me to do so. The first sentence of this debate is an introduction to what is next, and that is a change in VAT is not true. This sleep is what it is, the determination of the actual state of play of the 2003 budget. And that's right. A different method that's better. There's no better and worse method, there's a method defined by law, and there's one that's illegal, and there's profit accounting and accounting for your information. In the profit accounting, it is not allowed to record the obligation when paid but when the contract is concluded. And thirdly, the obligation to pay for road construction was created when a political decision was made incorrectly, the obligation to pay for road construction was created when contracts were signed. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12660	Thank you very much. Next up, a colleague named Katarina Fuchek came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12661	Madam Vice-President, my colleague Stazic, in his brief debate, advocated a lack of respect for the law. First of all, because he said it doesn't matter when or how it's going to be booked because the contract is the foundation. These are the budgetary resources of taxpayers and their spending is prescribed by law. The law on budgets and other laws and they accurately prescribe the ways and types of booking Mr. Stazic. You for repairing the roof with your private budget can have whatever you want, book and pay whenever you want. And not with budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12662	Thank you very much. The next colleague is a colleague of Roksandić, a correction of the hermit, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12663	Madam Vice-President Stazic said that this government did nothing to prevent the burning of houses, so now we have to spend money on rebuilding those houses. I would only like to point out that this government signed a contract three days before the 2003 elections and began, I will also say in which place, the Mosceni and left this government with a debt to carry students because the renovation has not yet been completed, and also more than 2 million kuna costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12664	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12665	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Our colleague Stazic said in his first opening statement that the debate on the annual calculation of the state budget is only being conducted to justify the adoption of the VAT amendment law. It's just not true. That claim is not correct. Looks like we're forgetting how we started the session this morning. On the agenda was the draft law amending the VAT at the request of your club and on your proposal we all stayed including the HDZ Club and me voted to put this on the agenda. We didn't need this debate to change the VAT law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12666	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Another correction to the incorrect allegations, MP Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12667	Madam Vice President, I will correct the inaccuracies of my fellow Stazic, in which he claims that it is completely irrelevant when he registers. I will argue that it is important when orders are made, when contracts are concluded and duties are created, so I will say in favour of these claims that contracts were concluded by the Ministry of Defence on 20.12., 21.1., 12.1., 31.12 and all together in the amount of one million 240 thousand 637 kuna. Is that under your parole work and honesty, or is that under parol fair? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12668	Thank you very much, my friend, for correcting a partially incorrect quote, and you've partially pollemized. I suggest we move on with the debate. The following has been registered for discussion by the respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12669	Madam Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are talking about budgeting in 2003. I would like to very clearly clarify the controversy of which methodology is both the budget and the report on the implementation of the budget. It is evident that this is a method that speaks of payments, it is evident that this report is also made up before us, it is evident that there are no significant deviations from the plan and realization in this report and it is evident that you have data in front of you that speak about macroeconomic sizes and I would say about the basic macroeconomic developments in 2003. And what we can talk about is whether it says in this data that the deficit is either 4.9 or 5.1 is being achieved and we're asking each other to polarize it. It's a deficit identified by this document, it says in this document. So are we aware of what we're talking about? We're talking about budgeting the state. What's the deficit on these documents standing in front of us? What's the deficit? Let's pick 4.9 or 5.1. Not even 5.9 isn't 6.7. These are laws, it is respect for the laws of the Republic of Croatia, it is written in these documents. It is a deficit that was achieved on the basis of business in 2003 under Croatian rules, according to the laws on drawing up the state budget. These are official documents published by the Ministry of Finance, according to the Ministry of Finance documents and also in the Croatian National Bank documents. According to this official data, data drawn up on the basis of Croatian regulations speak of the size of the deficit because it is obviously a deficit problem. So what can we say about execution? It was law-abiding and under the law was done in 2003. The question remains whether the deficit of about 5% is something that can be burdened by the economy of the Republic of Croatia and whether it has given the economy positive movements in the economy, I apologize whether this deficit, this effort of the Croatian economy and has given effects in the economy. I'm not going to deal with this analysis, because someone who wrote this material got involved and wrote the papers, the papers were standing, but we could see some of it in the draft budget. Yes, someone wants to deny what is written in the papers written by the Ministry of Finance. It is evident that the deficit of about 5% gave positive effects in 2003 with all the positive trends and for other than the height, that is, the rate of debt growth and the obvious problems we have in the deficit of our balance of payments. The other trends here are indicated in this document written by the Ministry of Finance which are the effects. Serious people wonder if a deficit of 5% is something that is or is not dangerous and we can theoretically argue a lot about whether we can handle it or not, but it's important to get into the essence of the deficit. The 5% deficit shown under this budget is written under this Croatian regulation and by the Ministry of Finance is the result primarily of investment in development. Investments in Croatian roads, in Croatian railways, in the reconstruction of the ruined Croatia during the Homeland War, investment in health care, these are the results of the deficit. So it's a battle for development. And unequivocally in this document it writes courage in 2003 that we tell Croatian citizens that we will have to reduce and reduce consumption, because this development is impossible to maintain without reducing consumption. Yeah, that's the result of the deficit. Reduce spending, demand the understanding of Croatian citizens to sacrifice themselves to invest in development. The truth is, we can open a debate whether the development of infrastructure, whether the development that means investing in health and reconstruction can be sustainable or not, because we know well that the future of insurance and foreign inflows, growth cannot be just by investing in state investment. Security can be by growing and investing in a real economy, in the production of products and services. Trends show that this economy has begun to return, strengthen and strengthen, and that there are elements that investment in development can still be paid off because the real economy will return what is invested and that is why Croatian citizens are sacrificed. We're still not sure and obviously the future will show. And this battle for the future, the battle to help the Croatian real economy find the investment market at home first, and then try to break through with competitive external market capabilities, is the battle in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia must play an active role. Yes, gentlemen, I must say, there is no dispute in the battle for development. And Sanader's government claims, you need to invest in railways, you need to invest in reconstruction, you need to invest in roads, you need to invest in health care. We don't argue about it. So does this government also support development? Yeah, but where's the problem? The problem arises that it does not want to give up on development projects, but at the same time leaving a major political one, but I would say the strategic decision of last year, which is savings. And the re-consumption area is opening up. Consumers caused by election messages, consumption caused by the desire to get voter support. This consumption is a problem and now there are important problems that are already seen in the efficiency of this government, but also in these reports. The consumption that shows development plus consumption is not 5% deficit, it's a far greater deficit. And it's obvious that international financiers don't accept such a policy. Their messages are clear. If development goes, there must be savings. It is a deficit that can be swallowed by the Croatian economy. If there's consumption, there's no development. These are dilemmas we didn't get an answer to, we didn't get them in the budget, we didn't get them in the budget, we probably won't get them by the end of the year. That's the problem this government is facing. It's a problem that she can't handle and that's the problem why now we're talking about something called transferred liabilities. Obligations which have not been transferred, which are in line with the legal provisions under which the budget is to be drawn up. You know, if the deficit last year is higher then this government has space, and is there room for consumption and development? There isn't. And we expect that answer. We hope that the answer will be, we will continue to develop because without it there will be no stable economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12670	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First one is representative Katarina Fuček, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12671	Madam Vice President, I would like to correct the incorrect allegations of Agent Linic, who said that in 2003 it was done within the framework of the law, which is not true. Because it cannot explain the increase in the Croatian highway plan by a billion and 12 million kuna, if it is without the approval of the Parliament. So, in that sense, there was also an increased deficit, and if it had been the Parliament's decision on that increase, there would have been no deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12672	Thank you very much. Another correction to the incorrect allegations, MP Markovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12673	Well, first of all, I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Linic, who claims, and the delegated commitments are not obligations. I say they are because the benefits at the end of the year were shared with a hat and a fist, which we in exceptional local self-government in the state budget now feel at tax returns. That's one thing. Secondly, it is not true that your way of development is helping the Croatian economy. It seems to us more like it's helping private firms of your controversial minister, and now the problem is that you won't admit that you didn't have control of your coalition ministers who did what they wanted, and the result is this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12674	Thank you very much. Minister Shuker also answered the word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12675	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. When we talk about overruns, then we have two categories. One is the surplus of the budget items paid last year and recorded in the budget. I'm sorry Mr. Linic wasn't when I was talking about budget implementation. This is about over 2 billion kuna and these 2 billion kunas have nothing to do with development. Only consumption, right in the lip. Guarantee reserves, principal payment, interest, $566 million. Expenses, based on expenditure and to the part of gambling revenue, 83.9 million kuna. Payments of unforeseeable liabilities based on collective agreements of 102 million kuna. Peace in the country and abroad and taxes and taxes and taxes and grips 949.7 million kuna. Medicinal products, secondary health care 358.1 million kunas above what was planned. That's not controversial. It's registered and it's registered in the budget. And what we're not going to admit to each other here, which is that this government has set a methodology to calculate the deficit. It wasn't us who determined it. It was this government that determined that methodology. The bookkeeping which is conducted and recorded by me on the "cash" principle, which is why the Ministry of Finance's data speaks of 5.1%. The modified method of calculation that you signed with the "stand by" arrangement is the deficit as it is. And don't keep teaching development and this government doesn't have a development program. So if you didn't owe yourself $8 billion last year, spent it like this, didn't solve any systemic problems, you'd probably have a different option for me this year. However, when you spend all the reserves, all the options then it's very difficult to move in the default frames. And that, after you've charged the state with $14 billion, after you've increased the public debt budget by $56 billion, after the unemployment rate remains identical to the one that was in 2000, which is about 19.1, 19.2% or somewhere around 325 thousand. After imports practically stagnated, and exports went from 7.7 billion to 14.5 billion, and we spent so much money. At the same time, domestic gross product growth was solely based on debt, public consumption and investment from the budget. It's short-term and it didn't yield results. And it's the failure of an economic policy and you can say whatever you want. You yourself have admitted that the debt that has HABOR, that it is not registered in accordance with the law. So let's say, at least the items that we agree on were supposed to be different books, let's say for the sake of the interest of the Croatian public in a common word, that was wrong. Let's get these items we're arguing about, and let's have a straight discussion about them. But let's just say what we agreed wasn't right, let's go public and say it to each other, that's not right. Let's discuss these other items. I keep talking about how fantasticly you were having negotiations with the IMF, and we had no idea. That's what we'll see when we sign the stand by the arrangement. But if you're so capable of all the honor. But it's certain that today in... when the flow of information is as it is, you can't hide any more information. and surely I will never sign a letter in which I will present falseness, as far as the situation in the Republic of Croatia is concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12676	Thank you very much. One rectification of an incorrect allegation. Agent Linic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12677	Mr Shuker said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia established the methodology and I repeat, the state budget, the report on the implementation of the state budget does not determine any government, these are Croatian regulations, Croatian laws. This ministry has put them together, not by the will and desire of Racan's government or Sanader. According to existing regulations. These materials tell you that the deficit according to the laws of the Republic of Croatia is 4.9 or 5.1 whatever the documents read. Therefore, no government has decided how the deficit will be determined. In these papers, read the documents, wrote by the ministry at the moment, the deficit is either 4.9 or 5.1, so whatever you want. But it's not 6.7. and there is no such deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12678	Thank you very much. We can move on with the debate. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12679	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would very modestly like the ground-floor economist to refer briefly to this report, which is a set of exact indicators of history, we can't change history, and I would go with one notor fact that in the economy especially applies, which is that every dinner we ate, everything we wore, everything we created somewhere as a cost, someone has to pay. Is that what we are if we are able, if it is someone else, it is now a matter of agreements, contracts, negotiations, or what I do not know, and in this way I am not simplifying the state, but I see it as one of the companies that should have done according to the principles prescribed by the law, but also where the good lord's work should be taken care of, whether those who pay will agree to those costs that we create for them, whether they are on the trail of what has been said to them and in terms of the effects they will produce, and also with regard to the primary side, so those who care are likely to own and receive, or those who spend on behalf of others, should be given the consent of those. So what the public thinks about it, whether it's a 5.1% deficit that he's agreed on positive or not, they said in the 23rd election, and they said it's too big. So, when they were told what was the total truth that by 2% the cost was higher, they were told only something. So, all of what you're going to accomplish this year, you're going to go a little bit further, because we thought it was good to build above possibilities, spend above possibilities, and then you can justify it. Or, if I don't know the events or the intentional work to say so, so if it's intended, then I'm going back to the state where the country's biggest employer is big entrepreneurs to say so, they're not competing on the market, they're competing to draw as much money with the state as possible for their private companies, and then we come up with signed contracts that, of course, when they're signed create commitments that someone will pay, and in this case, this government that only wants one thing. So he wants to go with clean bills to the 2005 budget on a completely different basis and with completely different plans. Of course, this year will be very difficult to fulfil all those obligations that come on charge. But I am deeply hoping, given the economic macro indicators, of the trends, and of the current moves of this government, that it will be by 31. 12. Make it work. And as it's possible in logic that based on two false premises, you have the right conclusion, so sometimes even with these discussions of ours, there's a lot of things going on. I'm going to see all these numbers and I'm going to repeat them as many times as it takes, and they're not on the trail of any particular optimism, but they're talking, and I'm going to say it again, that every county would if it were possible to split the cost of 3.5 billion each on an equal basis to the whole state, so that every county could spend 170 million kuna in this year, so my Koprivnica-Crysing who felt neglected, because unfortunately for their capital investments this year, it could get $12.5 million more, so that would mean a terrible lot to us, those countys that got more, for them it would be a little less. And for that reason, I hope that no more cases will be repeated when we discuss the implementation of the budget, that the difference between what is shown as real and what will later be shown, for one reason only, so accounting will record the actual events. That event that occurred somewhere that no one knew about, it couldn't have been recorded in accounting, and that's the result of our misunderstandings, confusion. And we can negotiate a methodology, but there is no methodology that would not say that this debt is not too difficult for the Croatian economy, that this difference will be difficult to pay and that we will be lagging behind in some projects and in a few years. I hope we don't give up on them completely, and that's not true. We will only postpone them, and the figures they speak and I will repeat them once again, so for guarantees in HZ of 900 million, and for unpaid mandatory hospitals of 533 million and for works via the Croatian highways of 867 million, and for unrecorded withdrawals of loans in the Ministry of the Sea, transport and connection of 241 million and for the increase of unpaid liabilities for material costs in ministries, for all of these unpaid and unsolicited liabilities will therefore have to be allocated to unplanned and additional ones from taxes collected 3.5 billion kunas this year. Thank you, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12680	Thank you very much, colleague. Representative Linic reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12681	I like to always talk about numbers, too. The exact numbers. And I want the numbers to be the ones we won't argue with at least. But obviously we don't like to read numbers, so I'm going to read page 529 where you have a very clear deficit document, and we're talking about a legal deficit. It's the Ministry of Finance's report, so it's not something we're talking about. On page 529 paragraph 2 of the deficit. So you even have a title. If capital revenues are excluded and these are privatisation revenues, the total deficit in 2003 reaches 9.3 billion kuna or 4% more than planned. Or what you know, index 104, 4% higher. But the most important, or 5% gross social product. 5%. With a number and a letter. According to Croatian regulations, according to Croatian methodologies, what we need to talk about. It's something that's written, which is official, which no one has falsified. And let's try to figure that out. We can talk about it in methodologies, it's a report for 2003, it's a budget report that's on the agenda today, and that's what's written by law. And perhaps just to mention that, I'm glad you first wondered if it was necessary to invest so much in development, I hadn't heard that before, and that's a subject where we can differ and we can be everyone for ourselves right. It is your right to suspect that no money should have been invested in roads, railways and renovations. It's your right and you may have the right not to invest so much. And in that, we can say, that's our difference, that's our difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12682	Thank you very much. Replica reply, representative Ivana Sučec-Trakostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12683	Yeah, I totally agree with Mr. Linic because his numbers and my numbers totally match. So what you're saying as a deficit of 9.3 plus 3.5, it's quite clear about 12 and something, yes, so the figures are accurate and the sums are talking about the total deficit, what the one that was later found out, so that's true. I didn't say I shouldn't have invested in development, I just said that the relationship between possibility and desire is something to talk about in every country. And now I'm not gonna talk about plums and have where it can grow so that the plum stays alive and has along with it. So, you have to develop as much as the opportunities of one economy allow with everything above it and leave to future generations to pay for our genius ideas is very dangerous and I won't say how morally it is and I won't now withdraw the question of further debt and each individual child as long as his obligations are born in thousands of dollars today and beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12684	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the individual debate. Representative Željko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12685	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. It is quite clear that in a political struggle that has developed here today around this 2003 report, it is in some way trying to justify everything that has been done and what has been shown in this budget, but when these attempts cross a certain line when the public is trying to deceive and when trying to input someone, it is quite clear that they should then say a few words. Here the first attempt was to try to instruct the Croatian Democratic Community that here we have this topic just as well for something we want to implement and that we don't care at all how the 2003 budget was implemented and that's the foreplay of what follows which is not exactly true and we have proved it through this debate and we have not been prepared to amend and supplement the law... and before this report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other thing that we are being imputed here is development, no one disputes that we need both highways and renovations and housing and modernisation of railways and tilt trains, that we need investments in improving the standards and quality of life of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is quite clear. However, everyone must spread how much debt is due, says the old People's Proverbs and experts who create plans and budgets, making a budget one plan in which we will implement what we have imagined and when it comes to this House, in the House when he votes it should be sacred for those who implement it, and that is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If that isn't the case, we'll take a concrete example of Croatian highways. In order not to dispute with the calculation methodology because they appear here as possible two methodologies, which is the cash principle when obligations or claims are recorded at the time of payment and the accounting principle when the claims are recorded at the time of creation. Neither the Government of the Republic of Croatia adhered to Parliament's decision in 2003 either by one or another accounting method. In particular, revenues and support in 2003 were recorded at a billion 932 thousand, a billion 932 million and 400 thousand kuna, 12.7% more than planned according to the cash principle. According to the accounting principle, these revenues are 2 billion 114 million and 100 thousand kunas which is 23.3% more than planned, so in one case and another, the plan is, to put it that way, has been breached and this has not come to a rebalancing in the Parliament, nor has the Parliament brought a storm. Also, the remaining non-taxable revenues of 618 billion per cash principle or the summation of 793 million kuna were breached according to the cash principle 52.2% and by the accounting principle 95.4% and no matter how... I repeat the plan of revenue and we will see after and expenditure is not rebalanced, it is not Parliament's decision-making and that is what the Government of Croatia was obliged to do. We will also stick to spending only on capital investments, which amount to slightly more than 5 billion kuna or 18.2 more than planned according to the cash principle and according to the accounting principle are slightly more than 6 billion kuna and 40.3% more than planned. And when you look at this little account deficit according to the cash principle, so according to the one you've promoted, unsolded means incomes minus expenditures are 3 billion and 673 thousand 200 million kuna and they're one and a half percent above planned, and only for your information are 80 percent on the foreign capital market. The deficit, according to the accounting principle, is 4 billion 351 million kunas, or compared to the planned 3 billion kunas and 620 million kunas or 22.2 million kunas above planned. This points to the conclusion that either in the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2003 there were three types of ministries, three ministries of finance or three types of ministries so that they couldn't control each other and there was likely the inability of control by the Prime Minister and Minister, Minister of Finance. So there was a generated excessive and uncontrolled borrowing of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which directly affects the possibility of operationalisation of the 2004 and 2005 budget. And that is what is important, what the figures prove undisputed here, and it is quite clear that, in all other possible ways of showing, we must be aware that a single strategic error has been made at the expense of certain shifts in infrastructure or shifts in certain increases in the standards and quality of life of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is that it has been spent more than it should have been and which could have been in line with the principles of fiscal policy that has been generally recognised in all democratic states of this world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12686	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Agent Linic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12687	Today we are discussing the implementation of the Budget and the papers delivered to us by Mr. from the Ministry of Finance, and I will stick to these materials because this is the point of the agenda and of course the figures here are right, they were made by the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, on page 526 of these materials, to be clear, it writes a consolidated central budget, and it makes it very clear that Croatian highways and Croatian roads are also entering this consolidation. And I repeat again on page 529 where the deficit of the consolidated State budget is determined clearly writes 5% of the gross social product. So these are the documents of the Ministry of Finance and it's hardly something we can talk about. Why? Because the methodology doesn't determine either the IMF, neither does the former government nor this government. These are the methodologies set out in the law on which the budget is to be drawn up, by which the report is to be drawn up. It's a methodology called what's called and we can dispute it, but it's a Croatian regulation. It's a Croatian law, and based on that, it's all written in these materials. So also here we have according to Croatian regulations, according to Croatian regulations and report on Croatian highways, and imagine according to Croatian regulations it is evident that the overall plan has been exceeded by 1.5%. Not the GDP. 1.5%. Or when we talk about indices, the achievement of Croatian highways by Croatian regulations is a 101.5 index. It's a huge overrun. According to Croatian regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12688	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, representative Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12689	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, I cannot believe that this is me, dear colleague Linic, who assures me that no matter how much overrun from the planned that should not have made the budget rebalancing that would have been brought to the Croatian Assembly. If that's true and if I understand it correctly, then I think we've dropped quite out of sight what we're sitting here for and why is there a Council of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12690	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. The following is registered for discussion by MP Nikola Sopčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12691	Madam Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, after obtaining material on the implementation of the 2003 budget as well as after these discussions, it becomes clear why the current opposition was against the reduction of value added tax. She knew the total deficit in 2003. I also agree with my colleague, it seems to me that Mr. Churchvenac, where he says that co-operation with the IMF should have a limit, but not to supply incorrect data directly affecting the planning of the budget and the budget deficit next year. It is incomprehensible that the financial plan of the Croatian highways can be increased by 1.12 billion and that the Croatian Parliament does not know about it at all, nor has it had the opportunity to decide. Former Prime Minister Racan says that if they are to blame for the highway border, they accept the guilt. It is not your fault, it is the Croatian citizens who pay these roads through the purchase of every liter of fuel, and I believe that there is no one in this high house who would be against the construction of roads in Croatia. Besides building roads, more authorities of the Croatian Democratic Community started, and you spent two years of mandate to deny everything that was done by then. It must be easy to be a great builder, by the way to hire some companies where there is often a personal interest and to leave it to someone else. It is becoming increasingly visible here that everyone in the former government, so it seems to me that the prime minister himself didn't always know what was going on in certain ministries, and then those moves should have been covered. I guess that was the cost of maintaining the coalition. I'm glad we're discussing the budget itself sooner. That is why I thank the SDP gentlemen for proposing to do so before the VAT law changes, so that the Croatian public has the opportunity to see what is the real reason behind the VAT reduction from 22% to 20%. To see that this is not because of the IMF pressure, but because of the costs incurred last year. Although fellow Churchmen call this point, which follows us that the VAT change is in such short time a rejuvenation, I think it is a disgrace primarily to accuse Minister Hebrang of lying when he was talking about debts to large-scale drugs amounting to 533 million kuna, and now we see from this report that it is all true. Well, gentlemen, as far as changing things, you've been changing the Constitution twice in three months, but I think that should be embarrassing. If we're talking about the error of this government, it's only a mistake that she believed the information that your government made, and it refers to the deficit in 2003. For this reason, I support the government's intention, Dr. Sanader's president, and the finance minister to finally introduce order into state finances and put into office as quickly as possible, to put into operation the state treasury system so that the Prime Minister, the finance minister, doesn't know how they spend their resources in certain resolutions. And usually when they find out, it gets too late. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12692	Thank you very much. One replica, MP Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12693	I'm giving you a replica since I heard something interesting. It's easy to build and leave debts to someone else. And it turns out that these are debts or SDP or HDZ or coalitions and HDZ. No, they're not. It'd be easy if my parents left their debts to each other. These are debts paid back by Croatian citizens. According to the coalition government, it carries a heavy burden on both highways and railways, and in the reconstruction of the destroyed Croatia because no one wanted to help outside, the debtor of the Croatian citizen. And these are debts that are the debts of Croatian citizens and they will be paid back by the HDZ. The main issue remains whether investing in that infrastructure will give citizens the economy that will give them stability and security. That's what we believe. What's important is that the HDZe Niit doesn't think it was necessary to invest dynamically remember Prime Minister Sanader faster and faster into the railways even faster. So neither the problem nor the dynamics nor the size, but the problem is we can't develop it, we can't reduce PDVE and we can't make election promises, these are the differences that make the IMF give on its fingers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12694	Thank you very much. Answer to the replica of MPs Sopčić please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12695	Well, I agree with Mr. Linic, these really aren't SDP debts, these are the debts of Croatian citizens. So there's absolutely right. And I don't think he fixed anything I said. Because it is, and I've been talking about how to spend money on the control of individual ministers and individual ministries. Not about the plans that should have been made. And not to repeat the construction of roads primarily the construction of infrastructure, the Croatian Democratic Community of gentlemen began you just continued.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12696	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. Representative Joseph Leko, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12697	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister, you're quite correct and lucidly earlier than you've identified that there have been grips of exercise because I wanted to quote Minister Shuker who is 19.3. In 2002, when this Croatian Parliament examined the protractor about the stand by the arrangement of the former government means fully evident, it was transparently the contract here. We don't have such a contract that the government now concludes with a stand by arrangement. And Mr. Secretary says, I said we should determine the methodology that is the deficit. Due to the future of the Republic of Croatia, it must determine the methodology of what a deficit is and then show it evenly to Croatian citizens. Why now's a different view. What's the problem now? Is that a different methodology gone? Why he did not show both in the second and third methodology in the interest of full information from Croatian citizens. And the seriousness of the government is what I have to say, today a friend who's been here says he's not from the HDZ, but I know he's in the HDZ. He says, "Don't listen, they didn't know everything you spent." So I say but they've been in power for five months, as we'll believe they couldn't have known. how we'll believe that they weren't obliged to know everything. Five months and they passed a law on reducing VAT with an argument that it's in the interest of the economy, of the citizens, of the development, of everything. And then after a month and what else is he going to say under the pressure of the International Monetary Fund to wash the board with the same arguments. So here they say that today we are discussing the budget for the last year of 2003. And we haven't established the methodology, according to the Minister himself in 2002 in the Croatian Parliament when he was in the position of MPs. And now in the position of the minister, we don't have all the possibilities that give us these methodologies. That's why I have to focus on the matter through the budget law. The bill was passed by this House, and from that point of view there is no objection to the finance ministry that has grown to us, the 2003 budget calculation. So it's all legal. So why do we have to argue about accounting now? It's about bookkeeping. Well, maybe it's really important for both government and government. Maybe it's really important, maybe it's accurate. But for the citizens of the Republic, that's not important at all. The citizens of the Republic know and I think it is so that the schedule of political and economic forces in the Republic of Croatia has been privatised in a Croatian way, which means that not long ago the privatisation of Croatian banks has been done on the ground of citizens of 75 billion Croatian kunas. Which also paid for by a Croatian citizen and sold to banks only for 25 billion kuna. This difference is on the back of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and it is important to determine the budget deficit of the previous and future budgets, regardless of the methodology we will use. Regardless of what methodology we will be serving the growth of the country's gross domestic product, the development of this country has determined privatisation in a Croatian way. Special privatisation of banks. Perhaps one more time should read this page that my colleague Linic is constantly reading, which is from the government's official document on the deficit for last year if it is important for citizens. If the citizens of the Republic of Croatia expect this government to say what the development strategy is and I am convinced that they are watching the government say when it will start to reduce the number of unemployed, when wages will grow, when pay taxes will be reduced, to the income of those citizens interested, when investment will be made abroad. When it will enable new jobs to be opened, it builds ezans. If money is spent in such investments in such plans, in such programmes, the stilt is determined. The question is just dynamics and this dynamic can be questionable from the point of view of the book whether this or last year. I don't know anything about booking, but I know for sure that I know for sure that the citizens of Croatia do not once, but are constantly saying that they are interested in the development of standards and employment. If the development includes building Croatian highways, then I am satisfied. I hope the citizens are satisfied, too. No matter where we book the obligation to pay for the construction of those roads. The roads are built for 5 years, and the financial year doesn't end for real, the financial and accounting years don't match the projects, the projects are extended for a larger number of years. To a large number of budgets and calculations. Therefore, if we had agreed, and we could agree and lay down the law, we could book the whole project into one budget, but we won't pay it out of one budget. And finally, by my court, if the government still doesn't know what's in the Croatian state, in the Croatian economy, in Croatian accounting, in Croatian finances it would be wise not to suggest anything, because it could happen in a month that we have to change it. I suggest we leave the government 30 more days to determine the actual state of the Croatian economy, that's better than wandering. If we don't have a goal and we don't have a base every bus is good wherever we come, if we're still welcome, so that's ours. Let's agree that the government determines the actual state of affairs. Well, that's in the interest of us, in the interest of the citizens, whether it was good or bad last year. Let's once figure out how privatisation took place, whether it costs or someone gets hurt, let's make sure independent experts understand how the government did business, and how this government operates all in the interest of the citizens. Well, it's not here, so we have to do it. We have to do this. So I'm asking nicely not to be irresponsible when we take responsibility. Then if we don't know, say, wait, we'll find out, and then the VAT change won't be in a month, but when we agree, or when we find out the facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12698	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the respected representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12699	Mr. Leko, it is not true that after five months the government changed its mind just when it met with the IMF. So you achieved that greater deficit than planned, and you didn't show it in 2003. You've been hiding this greater deficit than planned, and I'll tell you only with one extra budget fund that's Croatia's highway, and it led to a single delusion in the government when she proposed to the Parliament the law on amending and supplementing the VAT law. Mr. Leco, that's a fact, and I think, and I'm sure I didn't make a mistake this time and hurt Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12700	The same correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12701	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to correct the inaccuracies of my colleague Lek in which he claims there is no excuse if they had not previously known the duties and deficits. And how would Mr. Leco know the responsibility and the deficit until the charges came up? In order to know about the contracts that were signed, I already said in the time of 20.12., 31.12., 12.1. and 12.1. and here are four contracts in small items but are worth a million and 260 thousand kuna. Tell me, Mr. Leco, is this the fair work of your party and your government? Is that under parole fair?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12702	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12703	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12704	Well, leave it to me that I, why, I guess I have something to say here. Please specify which article, you know that you should specify.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12705	But I can't read numbers, but one article is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12706	And you're a great reader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12707	Thank you very much. My colleague and colleague really didn't listen to my debate, so they hurt their feelings, I could say, they stepped on the whole of the Rules of Procedure, but they only hurt two articles, 209 and 214 because I didn't even mention the contracts that my colleague was talking about. But I'll do it again, if they have no knowledge of government members, so don't come until they find out anything else. And nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12708	Okay. Dear Representative Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12709	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. This material that we got yesterday, like who I am in the afternoon, is a material that should be at least seven days away from someone who can read these materials, and thank God there are many who can't read it. Well, I didn't really read it, but I found it on page 546, and I took two pages 515 and 516. That's one leaf. And on that list are given under point 4. says Croatian Water, the first paragraph is income, the second is expenditure and the third is deficit. And here you know what's a few numbers, income, expenditure, percentages. And you know exactly what that is? Only planned deficit, everything else is a mistake. If that were the case, members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Waters appointed by this Government, and among them is the Minister, because they are, this administrative council has accepted the implementation of the governance plan for the Croatian Waters for 2003 and there are figures that have nothing to do with this material given here by the Ministry of Finance, or by the Government. And why was that given? It was given to show a deficit of 173.4 million kuna and which is really 51 million kuna and I don't see any reason to believe anything else if this is already written like this. So these other 543 pages, if it's already on these two pages of such lies are given. Since the deficit is the most used word in Croats these days, I will also use it one more time. So it seems to me that the deficit of the ideas and knowledge of this government is the basic reason for any possible debate so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12710	Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12711	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Transparency of income and expenditure, the introduction of order into state finances is the basis for effective policymaking of each government. The implementation of the 2003 budget does not show such transparency. On the contrary, it is evident that there were two parallel systems, one accounting and another real who was hiding, unsettled liabilities. The question is, who is it? Because of the International Monetary Fund, for citizens or for someone else. This is a real example of breach of the basic rules in financial operations within the state budget, and it should not be mentioned that the management of the state budget should be an example of the management of finance in the economy and in other entities. A specific example is health institutions which are beneficiaries of budget money, and are not shown at all in this report. A large debt from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute has been transferred simply to the debt of health institutions that have been blocked by the judicial route. The commitments by the end of 2003 amounted to 533 million, and of course they had to be paid, i.e. to be paid in this year. In addition to unsolicited, unpaid obligations by the ministry, outside the budget funds and agencies, the report also shows spending beyond the parliament's approval. The example is an increase in the HAC's financial plan and that for HAC by 1 billion and 120 million kuna. The finance minister also cited other examples of unpaid and unsecured liabilities of 3 and a half billion and I would no longer talk about it. But it is certain that these are not final data and that we will have a real state of budgetary positions according to the 2003 State Audit. The data will certainly be more devastating. But what is important, this government will succeed and find and find a way to resolve and introduce order into state finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12712	Replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12713	We have a document before us, the implementation of the State Budget 2003. If we adopt it tomorrow or Friday, it's the final number, the final document. I hope the data ahead of us is serious and seriously prepared at the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, there is no additionally unrecorded, such as this, so this is a document that speaks of very clearly how the budget was achieved last year. But I would point out again, the Croatian budget is done by Croatian regulations and they are famous. And this is the reason that on page 529, according to the Croatian rules, the State budget deficit for 2003 is slightly less than 5% of the gross social product. It's official data, it's Croatian regulations. Everything else would pray that we know that it does not exist because today's Parliament is talking about Croatian regulations, budget implementation and deficits according to Croatian methodology legally. And we're talking about it. And the question someone uses to create the deficit as they wish is that they must say that it is not according to Croatian rules and that it is not indicated in this. Not specified. And two different concepts of what a deficit is, and what these are obligations we want to talk about today, and they're not the same idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12714	Thank you very much. Same replica. Dear Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12715	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I must say, I wonder if HDZ gentlemen understand Croatian because it turns out that we are here talking about things that are obvious, and that they keep repeating the truth. I'm not talking about lies, which is the way Mr. Sanader, the Croatian prime minister, speaks. But I'm going to talk about the truths that keep repeating themselves. So let's say it started at a government meeting last week when, as a reason for the VAT drop, a 20% reduction in VAT talked about unpaid and unrecorded commitments, including one million kuna from the Ministry of the Croatian Defence from the Homeland War. So it was said that some ministers signed contracts when their mandate expired. And now I'm going to quote Sanader and say that the Deputy Prime Minister lied. That the Deputy Prime Minister has deceived the Croatian public and what is worse, the HDZ parliamentarians continue to keep spreading the lie. And when her secretary of state said it was a lie... /The speaker shut down, then subsequently turned on.//... but she said that she was just expressing the fact that she did not stay on that claim but simply did not know about the obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12716	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12717	And she knew...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12718	Thank you very much. Time's up. Replica response, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12719	I want to repeat again that the transparency of income and expenditure is important for the management of an effective policy of each government. After the implementation of the 2003 budget, it was apparent that this was not transparent. If, if, if, if the Ministry has found that there are 3.5 billion, then undeclared obligations, it is certain that such obligations are then affecting policy-making both towards the economy and the social welfare. Therefore, I believe that transparency is essential. As far as the law is concerned. You say you acted according to the law. By which law when MP Stazic says state finances can be managed in one way or another. So you're adjusting the law the way it suits you. That's the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12720	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Jure Bitunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12721	Yes, he refers, Mr. President, to Mr. Pancic's statement. Namely, he... No, no, no, I was, no, no, before my colleague gave the replica, I was the one who was the one who hurt the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And it's about the next one. It's about the next one. No, no, don't, please. Let me say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12722	Go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12723	Well, but you have to extend me a little time when...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12724	Please state the article, colleague. Hold on to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12725	This Regulation shall enter In his speech, Mr Pancic hereby deunciates and insults certain representatives, talks about the knowledge of Croatian language, and, on the other hand, talks about lies, lies, mentioning members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12726	Minister Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12727	Thank you very much, Mr. President. But I'd like to say, obviously we're not even admitting what we confessed a few months ago that's true. So Mr. Linic probably doesn't know about the memo that was sent on 26.3.2003 to all budget users, in which they are clearly told that they can't enter the treasury if there is no money. It is also dictated how the maturity will be determined. So it says, in order to make the real planning of the outflows more realistic, it is calculated by budget, users are warned that only requests from the maturity date after the entry date can be entered into all systems. What does that mean? Mr. Pacek, if you...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12728	Please, gentlemen of fellow MPs, do not prejudge with the minister in this way, nor vice versa.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12729	So, I'd like to say something. We have made a fair and correct report on the implementation of the budget based on the cash system, the cash principle however you like. You, according to the deficit model you signed with the stand by the arrangement and when you signed the stand by the arrangement, did not sign 3.5 billion commitments. And that's how you manipulated the data. That's what I'm telling you in public. But we were correct, we weren't correcting any of your data that you filed, but we showed it the way it is, just to prove that you didn't record business events. When the inspection goes into control of the taxpayer and finds that certain underlying events are not recorded, then it is known how it works. But I'm saying, "the country has sworn a paradise to make all secrets known," so is yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12730	Honorable representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12731	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here at the end of this I would say, however, the debate in which everything is discussed, about development very often showing that it does not understand what development is, and what development is not, development is not and cannot be excessive public consumption, development is not and cannot be an inadmissible deficit of the state budget, development is something else, creating a new added value, which should be discussed and should be known how this can be achieved and achieved. We discussed the macroeconomic environment, we discussed railways, we discussed VAT and we almost forgot what the simple goal of this debate was. This debate has two key issues. I would say first (a) establish a uniform, clear and exact size of the government budget deficit in 2003. To the extent that the State budget has not been exceeded, the deficit of the state budget has been allowed. And it's the key and most important thing in this debate. I think that even about such simple things there are dilemmas, there are disputes and that's why I'm just going to take this document and quote what it says. I quote "According to this, the total budget deficit on the modified accounting principle is €12.89 billion, i.e. 6.7% of gross domestic product". And it's really a problem if there's not a single view about such exact, clear, simple things. He has to be achieved. Maybe not in this House, but we really need to make it possible when we talk about political issues, that the profession also has its place, which is very important and which should be respected. We have a state audit, we need a clear unambiguous opinion and a state audit. Well, in the end, it's nothing unusual if we can't agree to hire the appropriate audit houses that will be able to be able and under Croatian laws and according to a simple unique methodology to determine what the deficit of the state budget is, so that's the key, most important thing that we need to adopt at the level of this institution that must be clear to all. Well there are audit houses, you can hire and I think it would be very good, given these dilemmas, given these misunderstandings, Ernest Young, I don't know Praise Waterhouse Coopers,... So let's also include this independent profession once to be a part of these political debates. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the objective is clear, unambiguous to establish a uniform, clear and exact final item of over-state budget deficit. Can we do that? We can and we must. Secondly, was it spent exclusively what was approved in the Croatian Parliament? That's another key and important question. If there are those items which are the cost of a state budget which have not been adopted in this House in accordance with the Budget Law, then they are inadmissible and unacceptable actions. Certainly, we cannot talk about the rule of law without having unregulated public finances, that we have inadmissible behaviour that comes out of the framework of institutional ones that are defined, brought and adopted in the Croatian Parliament. And I'd say third. If the budget deficit is greater than that of the unplanned, if there is significant deviation and if what was not approved in the Croatian Parliament is spent, then it would really not be unusual if such things were sanctioned. They sanctioned not only politically, but through names and last names, because this country must have the foundations of regular behaviour that should represent a good tradition of developed democracy. If we are talking about such things in a year, then I really don't think it's possible to achieve, not just orderly finances, but to have a legal state, trust in the institutions of this country, and that's why we have to do everything we can and what we are ultimately obliged to do after all these discussions to make these views undeniable. Why are there restrictions? Well, there's a whole series of reasons. Without restrictions, no planning, no programming, no reliable and quality development. And because of this, it seems to me that this is a crucial moment when final definite data must be adopted, and in addition to political assessments, it is certainly important to have the views of an independent profession that is very important to us not only at this time, but also on many other occasions where we will find ourselves very often. Development. It certainly deserves unimproved debates in the context of the topic, but I would say it deserves a special topic, because talking about development is the essence of all the problems that we face here today by discussing this topic, by discussing the increase, or the return of VAT, as well as many other things that will be an integral part of the agenda. I therefore believe that after the time spent, after these intense debates, we will really have to have a clear and inconceivable conclusion, because voting in the Assembly cannot be usually hand-lifting, but it must indeed be the adoption of some new standards of good, democratic behaviour, which is the basis for which it is linked to the budget, the implementation of the budget and all other activities that are related to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12732	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12733	Today, we have a document that speaks of budget implementation. The figures in it are official and after the adoption of the Croatian Parliament, they are also final figures. According to these figures, the deficit of the state budget and the consolidated one will be official in Croatia 5 or 5.1%, it is an official deficit based on what we are discussing in the Croatian Parliament, on the basis of Croatian regulations and on the basis of documents received from the Ministry of Finance. It's a deficit that will be written in official documents of all who provide data based on the Ministry of Finance. So that's what the National Bank reports will say, and it's already in the National Bank reports, the Ministry of Finance, and it's going to write statistics. These are the figures, these are the Croatian regulations and that is what we clearly have present. And I think we need to figure it out sometime. That's what we're talking about today. There's a question that we can't understand, we don't want to understand, and that's the issue of last year's liabilities that are paid this year, the commitments that will be paid in 2005 and these methods can't change. These methods cannot be changed because this would mean the incomparability of Croatian regulations, incomparable. That's why there are regulations, that's why the figures that are written here are the figures that will be written in all our documents because we got them on the table today and we're discussing them today. And that's what we need to understand clearly and unequivocally that this material is offered by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12734	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12735	Well, I think all this stuff we're hearing is worrying. When it comes to such things, then I said again, there's only one single, exact, solid state, that's what we have to get. This is not a matter of my grades or your grades, but it is a matter of estimating the profession and we must respect this profession about it must have a place in our political life and unfortunately we cannot allow that kind of violence that numbers, that the data that come to the Ministry of Finance, that finds that come alarm not only the Ministry of Finance but the Croatian public can be interpreted in one way or another. Politics must have its limits when it comes to such clear, professional indicators. Because we have to have here, we have to verify here, we have to adopt here, it must be part of some new behaviour not only in the Parliament but in the Croatian state and on the Croatian political scene as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12736	Representatives and deputies, the individual debate has ended. On behalf of the SDP Club, five minutes of debate, the esteemed representative Slavko Linic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12737	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will vote in favour of a document called Budget Implementation in 2003. In this document we can see clearly the relationship in planning and the relationship in the implementation of the plan that has been implemented by the government in the past year. It is evident that the excesses recorded in some paragraphs are not those showing irresponsible, unprofessional financial management. That shows the document that's in front of us. Also, we have been alarming the public for 5 months about the unrealistic deficit, the excessive deficit, the unsustainable deficit, and in these figures it is very clear that according to Croatian regulations, the deficit is 5%. It's a document that's in front of us that's clearly talking about deficits. Whether or not the 5% deficit is feasible, whether or not the investment in the development that we had in the railways, in the highways, in the reconstruction, in health care will show tomorrow's investment. It will show tomorrow for the reasons why budgeting also shows that a number of positive macroeconomic movements, our economy's movements had a high rate of development, high industrial levels, high and growth rates of gross domestic product, but that trends in the decline in the number of unemployed were recorded and other positive trends were recorded. That's all in this document. It's up to us to see what it's going to be tomorrow so we can talk about the reality of this investment. Because it is always a question of whether the deficit we have invested in development is sustainable and clearly that investment in infrastructure if it does not follow the real economy's development remains the question of whether it will be sustainable. That's why we're assessing that the data that's ahead of us is enough to make a positive statement about the document that's ahead of us. Of course, we have not reached agreement on all those delegated commitments that are evident before this government and there are differences, polemic tones, and that is what we will talk about further, but it is undeniable that part of the realised investments in the last year remained as a commitment to the new government. And that it is a certain burden but it is also important to point out that we hold that further investment in development, the battle in development with the reduction of budget revenue with increased expenditure on consumption is evident that in the last year consumption decreased is the problem of the new government and it is evident that space with a deficit of about 5% for the realisation of consumption development and reduced taxes cannot be a real policy. And that's what the new government is hoping for and that their answers will be what we're very interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12738	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's ladies and gentlemen, let me thank everyone for discussing this whole day's budget and I'm glad that Mr. Linic, in his last address, admitted that they didn't pay 3 billion 500 commitments and that they didn't book it in the budget last year because, on the other hand, we were correct, we didn't register it in the budget, but we offered the budget as you were bookkeeping. I'm glad that in the end, no matter what we haven't officially agreed to, here's the budget by the cash principle, what's recorded in the state budget is 5.1%. Alio remained unpaid 3 and a half billion commitments, which were due to be booked last year, making up a budget of 6.7%. But precisely because of this way and the notion of state finances, the International Monetary Fund insisted on a stand by arrangement to determine a modified method but in an old stand by arrangement nm of this new one. There he is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12739	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for an annual accounts of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2003. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for an annual account. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 87 votes, the annual accounts for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2003 were adopted. I give the vote the following conclusion: A report on the use of the 2003 budget stock is adopted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, with 86 votes for and 1 abstention, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12742	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. A point that draws far more political connotations than will be drawn by an expert. So what I would like to say at the beginning, so we are aware in front of the government and the Croatian Democratic Community that this was a pre-election promise, as well as at one of its first sessions, the government has proposed to reduce the value added tax rate from 22% to 20%. You were also witnesses to the first state of finances report, when I, as minister, informed the government of what reached, and not registered and not charged claims will drive the 2004 budget. Meanwhile, negotiations for a new stand by arrangement with the international monetary fund began. and what I would like to say right away at the beginning for the simple reason that over the past months has been manipulated by the methods of calculation and deficit, I will say here that the former government agreed on a method of modified accounting principles that was far agreed by the previous stand by the arrangement. The first letter of intent in, according to the former Government towards the International Monetary Fund also changed the way in which the deficits concerning the Croatian highways were calculated and recorded, and in this letter of intent it was said that as far as Croatian highways are concerned, the accounting method would not be used, but rather the work done will be recorded as a deficit. So these are all the documents signed by the former government and these arguments that you received with the proposal for a reduction, for the postponement of the application of the Law on value added tax were done by the exact same method. So, the modified method of the accounting principle in line with the former government's agreement with the international monetary fund. Also on 16 December, as Prime Minister, Mr. Linic, Deputy Prime Minister of Finance Dr. Mato Churchvenac and Governor of the Croatian National Bank Dr. Zeljko Rohatinski sent a letter to Mr. Horst... to the director of the International Monetary Fund, where he was reported on the expected economic results in 2003, the state of fiscal policy, and here I would like to say that Mr. Rohatinski in his signature, because he only signed the part about the conduct of monetary policy. So let me quote only two articles in this letter sent from the Croatian government on 16 December to the international monetary fund and then we can discuss later whether the international monetary fund knew about some things or not. So, fiscal policy, I quote "fiscal policy remains focused on reducing the general government budget deficit from 4.8% of gross domestic product in 2002 to 4.5% of gross domestic product in 2004 compared to 4.6% of the programme's gross domestic product. These are to stabilise the share of public debt in gross domestic production, including outstanding liabilities and guarantees." I'm undermining "including outstanding liabilities and guarantees." At a level of about 51% of gross domestic product, the HAC deficit, the Croatian Privatisation Fund, will be higher than expected in the second review of the implementation of the programme, with an increase in the HAC deficit due to capital consumption above budgetary limits, underlining "over budgetary borders", and we are now coming to the conclusion that the amendment of the HAC plan should be adopted by this Assembly. Therefore, the government could not stand by parliament alone to change the HAC deficit, and to increase the deficit of the Croatian Privatisation Fund due to higher capital transfers subsidies and credit operations related to restructured enterprises. However, the results of the other units of the central government budget and local administration are better than those foreseen by the budget, thus allowing a lower deficit at the level of the general government than mentioned in the programme. In November, income data suggest a lack of non-taxable income, mainly due to lower concession incomes, dividends and public enterprises, as well as their own income from the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior, and taxes mainly on excise duties. Since the lower budget expenditures during the first 9 months have not been due to the late receipt of privatisation incomes from INA, we intend to keep most of the savings achieved to protect the expected drop in revenue. It was sent to the international monetary fund. However, the situation in state finances is unfortunately quite different. It's something that has nothing to do with this government. It is a letter sent to the Director of the International Monetary Fund. Therefore, in order to protect the expected... income, it is held that the savings achieved in the field of expenditure are large enough to allow the transfer of an additional 0.1% of gross domestic product to health institutions outside the budget of a consolidated general state for the purpose of the achievement of outstanding obligations towards their suppliers. And now we're coming to this, are these... drug obligations, did the former government know about them or not? And why has Minister Hebrang always been convinced that this does not exist, if it is neat here that the former government will provide 0.1% of gross domestic product for that purpose? Point 4 of the revenue achieved through the privatisation of the INA of $505m, significantly exceeds the funding needs of the general government in the fourth quarter. Honestly speaking 31.12. Saldo. In 2003, plus this one was actually zero without these commitments. Therefore, this finding that INA's privatisation revenues will remain the same as other revenues from the privatisation of the Bank of Commerce in the gyro-count since 2002, therefore it has been sent to the international monetary fund which simply does not correspond to the truth, does not correspond to the actual state. With less foreign credit withdrawals than estimated, there is likely to be a small decrease in foreign public debt in the 4th quarter. What's the situation with public debt last year, we all know that. The foreign debt has gone away by $8 billion, and the public debt has also increased by over $12 billion. And then how can we do 16. 12. Report someone that there will be a small decrease in foreign public debt in the 4th quarter. Well, it's not 16. 12. Five months before the end of the year. They basically stayed two weeks until the end of the year, when it's practically impossible to change anything anymore. It is known that, traditionally, in the last three, four days of the year, some incomes are increasing as regards income tax, etc. from a pure habit that people want to settle as much debt as possible before the end of the year. However, this is a statement written. So in order to meet their domestic funding needs, the state will sell 400m US dollars of its privatisation revenues to the CNB in November and December, it will use the rest to service foreign debt. I don't know what I.A. privatisation funds were used to service foreign debt? It's signed I repeat 16. 12. 2003. The state will settle its remaining gross domestic needs to finance the reprogramming of vault records at higher interest rates, supporting the CNB's efforts to spend liquidity. The state reaffirms that it will not use this, stressing the 100 million dollar receipts from the withdrawal of the loan tranche for the World Bank's structural adjustments. So these are just two articles that went towards the International Monetary Fund. And then if you get like this... If the last monitoring done by Mr. Flickenshield at the 9th month was as good as it was good, logically the people of the International Monetary Fund believed it was. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must say, unfortunately, me and this undermining, unfortunately not one criteria stand by the arrangement has satisfied the past government. Therefore, the stand by arrangement was not concluded and it was practically achieved and therefore this government had to start new talks on stand by arrangement. And it's not true that this government is that she stayed so she wouldn't talk about it. Because simply in a situation where you owe $24 billion and you don't know if you can or won't be able to control the growth of that foreign debt, then you can hardly argue that you wouldn't talk about a new stand by arrangement. So, using a modified accounting principle not signed by this government, which did not agree with this Ministry of Finance, a calculation of the 2003 deficit was made. First of all, we gave a three-month indication of what he might be. And we said that we wouldn't talk about the deficit until we got final confirmation and those who've been following that deficit over the past few years. So, at the time the International Monetary Fund Mission said that the deficit was at least 5.9%, then we went out with this data. So, what happened in state finances? They've got two things. They have expenditures that have tried to get into regular flows. It's Croatian highways. And here I keep repeating the finding, not a problem in the construction of highways, no one is against the construction of highways just thinking that changing the volume of works and increasing the financial obligations of the state should be the subject of debate of this House. And this House was supposed to make a decision about it. So, to break all the pathetic grades that someone will open the roads, how someone has been fighting bloody hard for them to make them, etc., no one is against building highways. We believe that this was to be recorded in this House and that this House should discuss it. The next problem is refurbishment loans via HABOR. The government decided in 2001 that HABOR would join the reconstruction and that, in fact, it was not HABOR but the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development and that it would be in charge of a billion kuna in HABOR and that in the next two years it would be renewed if I did not cheat somewhere around 4,000 housing units. And that's where the problem arises. Therefore, the cost of rebuilding a hundred million for which the former Minister of Reconstruction and Development gave 10 times 10 million binco bonds that were not recorded anywhere or had an item in the budget, are not recorded as the expenditure side of the 2001 budget. In 2002, work was done for 640 and another million kuna. In 2003 for 577 million. And what I would like to say is that the amount of these works carried out should have been recorded on the expenditure side of the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development and that amount would have increased the deficit. It is never recorded as expenditure. The repayment of the credit shall be recorded through the financing account. Therefore, the expenditure on each end of the expenditure budget user shall be recorded the year when that expenditure occurred. And that is why in the coming years credit returns will be made, according to an agreement signed by the Minister of Reconstruction and Development, the finance minister and the director of HABOR, that only when the loan returns will it be recorded as expenditure in some years to come, therefore, will increase the deficit in those coming years. And here, it is not disputed that the former government made a decision to restore it, but rather, what was a major deficit for the 600 million in 2002. And he wouldn't be 4.8%, he'd be 5 and something else. So we're talking about these sizes. Also issued guarantees to HZ for short-term credit. For a guarantee that is 100% known to come to the burden of the state budget, he is credited as a deficit in that year. And this guarantee has been issued for short-term loans to HZ is precisely known to come for payment this year. And I have to say, I can tell you exactly by date and month and I'll say it for the sake of the Croatian public. At the end of 2002, a short-term credit was raised for the salaries and material costs of HZ, which was paid in full at the expense of the state budget 31. 3. In 2004. At six months, I think 20. This year's 6th year will need to repay 400 million short-term loans that were raised last year for which the Republic of Croatia guarantees the same for salaries and material costs and in the 12th month comes for the payment of a 500 million loan, a short-term loan also for which the guarantee is given. In contrast, this government will no longer put the HH funding out of line so that everyone in Croatia sees exactly how much of the state budget is invested for regular HH financing. So this is where one fundamental question is asked. Why are certain expenditures that had an economic effect in that year, which by all principles were due as expenditure that year, not registered as expenditure that year for the simple reason that the deficit should not be as it is but as it is to be reduced and in the coming years it will be done by someone else. Obligations paid to hospitals according to large-scale drugs. Remember the assurance that these obligations do not exist. However, 533 million liabilities to wholesales this ministry and this government paid off in the first three months, for one part of the larger claims were issued bonds and for smaller claims were issued bonds and for smaller claims were paid in full. So all the majors regarding this 533 million debt have been settled. And here I would like to say one more thing, according to this modified accounting principle according to the old stand by the arrangement, since these 533 million have reached a commitment of more than 6 months, it has to be reported as an outstanding obligation to the International Monetary Fund. She had to be as recorded as that. Because you have signed such an agreement that all obligations that are not paid within 6 months are deficits that year no matter what principle they go by. That's what you signed. I didn't sign it. President Sanader didn't sign it. So that's what's left of your stand by the arazman and what I'd like to say for all these obligations that I've been saying now, they're all either partly paid or they'll be paid this year, so no one can say that they don't exist. They will be paid at the expense of both you and all other Croatian citizens who are filling the state budget. 241 million for Croatian railways, for modernization, an eclative example of how to get around and how to do something about it, I will talk more about it when I talk about the implementation of the state budget. It's a program that was partly funded from domestic sources. And that amount financed from domestic sources was recorded on the expenditure side of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. This second part of 50%, financed by foreign sources of income of 3.4, is not recorded on the expenditure side of the Ministry of Transport and Communications budget, but came to a foreign exchange account opened by the Ministry of Transport and Communications and forwarded to the Croatian Railways. It would make sense that these loans were recorded in the Treasury and that they were charged for the expenditure side of the Ministry of Transport and Communications that year. And yet it is not disputed what has been invested in the Croatian railways. It's not a dispute, and I repeat it for the third time so we don't talk later, you're against this, you're against that. It is contentious that these expenses are not recorded where they were to be recorded. So that's a total of 3 billion 510 million kuna. If we add to this the lawsuits for which we could not even imagine until a month ago which is the amount due to unpaid Christmases, regressions and overtime, you will see’ I will talk about some of the items that were planned in the 2003 Budget, but they are overly above the amount that was planned, and I will talk about it when the budget is implemented, then you will come to the point that, in practice, in 2004, with a deficit less than 4 and a half percent, it was practically impossible to close for the simple reason that the deficit in 2003 was not 4 and a half percent. He was five, nine, six, six, seven percent. And it's impossible to reduce the deficit by 50% in one year. That's the basic reason. And if you had recorded all these expenses, then the deficit would have been 5.9. Let's say we calculated it as 6.7. The IMF said it was 5.9. But take it if it didn't, if they hadn't presented such expenditures as they presented themselves, we'd have to do a budget with a deficit of 3.5, 3.6 this year. Is that possible with all these expenses covered? That's impossible. And what deficit assignments would be in 2005 would be better off not talking about it. So looking at all this together, not wanting to accuse anyone, because today, in my speech, I don't want to accuse anyone, nor do I want to accuse anyone, but I want to bring just facts. Thank you very much, Mr. Racan, for this nonsense, thank you very much. Well, you told me not to talk nonsense. ... No, I don't. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] I have presented the facts and letters you signed, but what I would like to say for four years has been discussed with the inherited debts of 2000. For four years, you talked about the inherited debts of 1999. Now you're telling me from the bench that I'm not talking nonsense. For four years, you've convinced me that you've settled those debts. 4 billion and 100 you subdued in the 2000 Budget, and those 5 billion are coming toll at the end of 2004 and early 2005. So I know it's hard to face the truth. However, unlike fellow Skegra, who for some things went to informative discussions and so on, was a front-page star, no one accused you of anything but let as members of the government and the finance minister present the facts that are as they are. You've sent letters that you claim to be not true today. You signed them and it hurt the reputation of the Republic of Croatia because to claim facts that don't stand I don't think it's good. About what is happening and how is happening I said, and what I said when I passed the Value Added Tax Act is that the second step of tax reform follows in the autumn, which is about income tax and profit tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12743	In the application of this Act, we accepted the application of an emergency procedure. The government has appointed its proposings for this bill, Minister Suker and Secretary of State Martin Dalic. We heard all the reasons, the arguments. Television transmission is both direct and mediated and secured. Let's get to work. The finance minister has already given an introductory explanation. Would you like to give it in a short form one more time?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12744	Just one final word. When Mr Linic spoke on behalf of the SDP Club for the last 5 minutes, he definitely confirmed that this government was left with 3 billion and 500 unpaid bills this year. That a series of commitments are created which will come next year and that is why the VAT rate is proposed to remain until 22% further. Only for the reason that the former government led politics, as we say in Zagreb, on the jimdo. Someone's gonna pay for it, and we're gonna spend it, and that's why the VAT rate isn't getting smaller, but what I said, the second step of tax reform is going to fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12745	Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? At the last minute, I saw a timely correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12746	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister said incorrectly, he says this proposal reduces the rate. I guess it's growing again now since that cut.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12747	The rapporteurs of the Committee on Legislatives, not Finance and the State Budget. The chairman of the Shime Squirt Board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12748	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It's likely that the anxiety has passed, and now we can continue the debate in peace. In the morning session, the Finance Committee discussed both VAT and adopted the following views. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 10th session held on 2 June of this year the draft Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax with the Final Proposal for a Law to the President of the Croatian Parliament, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, acting on 26 May 2004. Financial and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of its competence as referred to in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the law in question as the home working body. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that the deficit of the consolidated state budget in 2003 was significantly more than 6.7% of the GDP, as planned by the rebalancing in 2003. Therefore, the reduction in deficits in 2004, 2005 to a long-term sustainable level below 3% of GDP and the halting of public and external debt growth is unsustainable without a delay in applying lower, without delay, I repeat, lower VAT rates. In this way, a satisfactory fiscal adjustment would be achieved both due to Croatia's entry into the European Union and Croatia's accession to the European Monetary Union. The Committee unanimously supported the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the law in question by an urgent procedure. One separate opinion, Committee member Damir Kajin gave an opinion pursuant to Article 51. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, noting that it opposes the adoption of this law by emergency procedure and the return of the value added tax rate to 22%, I assume that he did not think that it was the Committee's position, but rather that he intended to return to application from 1 January next year, i.e. to remain as he is. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided, by a majority, 10 votes in favour and one vote against the proposal of the Croatian Assembly to adopt laws amending the Law on Value Added Tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12749	Thank you very much. The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction. Dear representative, yes. Thank you very much. No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs. On behalf of the IDS Club, Honored Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12750	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, When luck won't, it won't. At the same time, Croatia remains without a 20% VAT and an ecological fishing zone. And then it's lucky that the day only lasts 24 hours, because who knows what might happen to us or rather get lucky by the end of this day. But that's obviously not all, either. Okay. Come on, somebody's gonna say that the opposition should be liquefied at this point, because one of the party's key promises in power got out of hand. However, I hold that liquefying is not the time. First of all, because of the fact that a significant tax on notes will not be reduced by the highest tax. And secondly because we're all together, at least when the VAT is due, so I'm going to say in a rough way to deceive her. It would also be good for the prime minister to come and convince us what's going on around us. However, I disagree with Mr. Pecek, that we don't know what's actually going on. On the other hand, it may also be acknowledged that today 2004, nothing happened before the elections or shortly after the January 3, 2000 elections, when VAT was also promised to descend from 22% to 17%. Today, however, something else is happening. Today, it does not give up on just one pre-election promise, today it gives up on the law itself, which, in my court, is a little harder to qualify than, say, some guessed pre-election promise. If we experience pre-election promises on the other hand, as the people would say as crazy joy, then we are underwritten. The Istrians would say that the man sticks to his word, the horn ox. However, amending the law means about the VAT for which the former, the current government has sworn to be the first measure of the new government if it wins the elections, can lead to the same way that some other promises will be trampled. Now let's put aside, say, co-operation with The Hague or not co-operation, I personally support the government's policy on this plan, because it's the only possible thing that would lead us all to ambition. Let us also release those promises of God's savings because of the government's reduction or the most likely prolonging so-called. the ecological fishing zone on the Adriatic or the repayment of debt to pensioners, i.e. pensions with 1.1. Compare 2005 with 50% of the average wage. However, we should ask ourselves the following question. Is Croatia, possibly already in July, at the latest in September about what Minister Shuker said last night on the Forum's show, expecting a budget rebalance that will sober us up in a way that some other social measures or "principles" will begin to re-examine? I said this morning, no one in this house should envy Mr. Shucker's position. Its budget for 2004 is 84 billion kuna, and 22 billion kuna must be paid to domestic and ino-religious believers. It's de facto every fourth budget kuna, not counting a deficit that we don't know is 5.9 or 6.7%. And I agree it's a huge burden. And I also agree that before the 2003 elections, there was no talk of such a one-loading budget. But something else is important to me. It doesn't match the truth that the deficit was not known before, say, five or six months after this law was passed. In fact, six months ago, this government mentioned a deficit of as much as 6.85% of gross social product. and I will quote a part of my speech since 28 January 2004 when the first debate on VAT was held, when I literally said, "I see that this government is now trying to justify in advance the divine greater deficit than the one expressed by the former government. Here I was talking, now talking about a deficit of 6.85% of gross social product, the former government mentions 4.5% of gross social product, this government is talking about health debt of 7.5 billion kuna, the former acknowledges a billion and a half kuna, etc." And then, among other things, in front of the IDS Club, I asked myself, rather than saying, "The question is whether this VAT reduction will start to apply from 1.1. 2005." The fact that the IDS Club was right back then, I think it's less important. It's something else that matters now. This government knew and publicly mentioned a deficit of 6.85% of the gross social product, now it has been shown at 6.7% and has nevertheless entered into an amendment to the law that no one has forced it to do. For that enormous deficit, I'll say it one more time. If he really is 12.7 billion kuna. Then why did the gentlemen go to change the VAT law? For this law, the VAT reduction from 22% to 20% of IDS voted in favour, because who is crazy not to vote for tax cuts, regardless of what I quoted in front of the Club on 28 January 2004 the Institute of Public Finance as saying that the VAT reduction from 22% to 20% will be reduced by a maximum of 1.64%. Then I spoke in front of the club and that, if we split these 3 billion kunas by 4.3 million inhabitants, that on a Sunday per capita at an annual level would be "saving" 70 to 80 kuna or 6 to 7 kuna per month. However, 6 to 7 kunas a month are better than nothing. And for those 6.7 kuna monthly "savings" our citizens IDS voted. Now, let's see if he's left without that benefit, let's call it that. At the time, I mentioned in front of the IDS Club that the 3rd January administration reduced taxes and contributions to cca. 20% and that in those 4 years 2000 to 2004, salaries also increased by 20% on average. Clearly, in that period 20% did not increase the standard but pensions and wages are what was compensated by inflation so that the standart means it did not increase. I also mentioned that the profit tax was 35%, that today 20% of income tax is also reduced or that untaxable part is increased. The contribution to pension insurance from 21.5% to 20%. The contributions to health from 18 are reduced to 15%, and perhaps in this case lies the reason for today's huge health losses, but no matter what it's not fair, I will repeat again what you said this morning that the government to hospitals owned by the state plus those in the area of special state care that he spoke about or the shore said corrected me by the vice president of this House, wrote off this, early in the year 533 million kuna and it is certainly at least that long before the end of the year and that the Pula General Hospital does not want to write off or drop off. I believe it is not fair but it is clearly not the subject of this law but it is therefore an unsettled problem, I will repeat once again for the County of Istria which has the budget of 190 million kuna, the budget of the General Hospital Pula, only it is obvious that some do not want to understand either in Istria or Zagreb. I'm not going to talk about the method of calculating this deficit that has contributed to my court under allegations of "not reducing" VAT and I don't care what it's called. As I don't care if he's counted as a deficit when the obligations that the former government has done or the deficit is accounted for when all the obligations that the new government makes at this time are agreed upon. For the citizens of my court, it is irrelevant that the IMF now includes these claims from the Croatian Railways, i.e. the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and these obligations at this time significantly increase the deficit itself. The former government is as he said somewhere, and this is what the media reported, Mr. Linic, intended to do so when the railways were clearly compared to the increase in gasoline by 60 liters per litre. I am personally pleased that the gas did not collect for these 60 lipes when it collects every other week, but I am clearly concerned if Đuro Đaković, I don't know, Končar, Gredelj will have no business but this logic, clearly, will be given to others, may also be applied when this government is in place because the reported budget for 2004 is already missing 2 billion kuna. Now, will money come from an increased press, tax press, e.g. For working on black, I don't know about taking care, raising some taxes or introducing new ones, it remains to be seen but in these circumstances certainly nothing will happen in the future of decentralisation. The crisis of state finances has already been opened, Mr Hebrang has already introduced under allegations of "crisis status" in the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and Health. The question arises whether this means accelerated privatisation of the Sun's Hvar, see you privatized, also mentioned by the INA. Let's remember the resistance of the former, further privatisation of the INE I was going to say. Remember the resistance of the former opposition to this privatisation model or cycle, mentioning the further sale of Croatian Telecom where for those remaining 20, 25% of the shares that the state portfolio currently has could generate between 300 and 400 million US dollars. As much as Deute's telecom gets out of the company annually, it's really a question of who was in the interest of a rehabilitated monopoliest to privatise the income company in such a way. However, speaking of this privatisation, I am very interested in how Agro Lagoon from Poreč will be privatized, otherwise a troubled company but a company in which it is owned, not owning nearly a thousand acres around Poreč, Vrsar and... And finally whether this deficit, whether a possible rebalance leads to a budget, leads to a further social reduction, or an investment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If this leads to social reduction, this means a huge dissatisfaction of citizens, if this means reducing investment, investment, that means reducing development, a smaller gross product, one word stagnation, or vice versa. The 2003 deficit in which we discussed today represents these famous 12.8 billion kuna. The deficit in this consolidated capital revenue budget is 9.3 billion kuna and the remaining 1.8% or 3.5 billion kuna refers to HAK, Croatian railways, HABOR and clearly these unpaid obligations to hospitals of 533 million kuna. When this debate is about such an important topic, and this is all about VAT, I think it is not possible to even argue between the former and the current government because it leads in some way to the untrustability of Croatia's policy or our external position. To end, what you say is not good, clearly lead one policy in the opposition, the other on its own, it is not good to make an unreal promise. Unfortunately, our people can be promised whatever they want, he votes to vote, at least five times worse, but he will do what he wants, and it's absolutely legitimate, and he's not getting into it. But it is expected that soon a zero VAT rate will be abolished, and another problem is here. VAT on donations. The church's been released so because of... between the Holy See and Zagreb, sports companies were freed from VAT payments, the Italian Union was freed from VAT payments, which is clearly good, probably on the basis of an agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Italy as well as goods coming from the United States. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it is not good that some other associations that also have their constitutional functions are not in the position of those associations that I mentioned earlier. I do, so they should be free of VAT. Finally, I must say, I was not surprised by the government's decision to give up VAT. What really surprised me was that I couldn't expect it was a union approach that now and then supports this decision. And personally, even a little joke, I think today the lucky man is Mr. Shucker. Why? Because all the time in the election campaign he spoke against VAT but in the end because of the higher interests he had to agree to and so it was confirmed that a man who knew very well public finances had already been right. Don't mind me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12751	Thank you, dear colleague Cain, on behalf of the HSP Club, dear colleague Pero Kovacevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12752	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. If I were not to read here the Croatian Parliament Report on the last VAT debate, it would be wise for all colleagues, Minister Shuker and colleagues from HDZ to read what they were then saying, how they explained that, the conditions are... that there is no problem in general how much good it will bring to the Croatian public, how much it will meet the Croatian standard and all other things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't want to read, read it yourself, so you'll see that you came to what we rightists said then. We told you then that it was unrealistic, that it was unreal to move towards a VAT reduction until the mechanisms were created which the state would first of all pick up what belonged to it. But I still have to mention two important things, which is that we will obviously have to change textbooks in Croatia regarding the concept of state sovereignty and the concept of financial sovereignty. Because what's been happening to us lately, everything that's written in the textbooks isn't true anymore. Therefore, I said to the Committee on Legislatives on behalf of the HSP Club, I say this and tonight, I ask the Government to lose future matters in the area of finance to point out to the Assembly that we do not lose what President Shakespeare likes to say, precious time, and we are at a debate on VAT if not certainly 3 whole days in the Croatian Parliament to collect the IMF's opinion first, obviously it will be necessary in many things to collect the opinion and Carla Del Ponte, the Commission of the European Union, the HHO and everything else. So when you agree with them all, then you give it to the Croatian Parliament, not to waste precious time. So this is the situation, and no one can convince us that what you said two months ago at this session, which is in your last report, that you suddenly made a salto of the mortal, and you made it obvious under the pressure of the IMF. It is true that, as Mr Cain said, it is also said at the time that the budget deficit is far greater than that which is officially shown, but it would not have happened to determine the fact that our proposal has been followed and that in the former meeting of the Croatian Parliament the Law on the handover of authorities has been passed in a way that determines exactly which methodology the minister will submit, the one leaving the new minister and that this parliamentary commission will verify. And then we wouldn't be in a situation where, and you got into the sixth month, this government got into the sixth month, that we kept talking about what it was and how it was done before and how something didn't work out. That is why elections are held, and that is why, let's say, the Croatian Democratic Community received most of them. Therefore, it was realistic for us to expect this to happen and therefore once again we ask that you do not refer these large things to the Croatian Parliament without the consent of these important international factors and try to change the concept and financial sovereignty in textbooks and the concept of state and legal sovereignty. As far as I'm concerned, I have to say the same important things, which is what we are like and what I would like to talk about further, what our tax system is like in Croatia. We, our tax system, are neither developmental nor social. Our tax system is such that its purpose is to fill the State budget, but on the other hand we do not have secured mechanisms for what is prescribed to be collected into the State budget. And therefore again we appeal to Minister Shuker that obviously, this and his colleagues from HDZ, there is no more room to speak in the manner spoken in the opposition, and this is the variant of how and how the State budget is cut, and here we have, and in the previous picture, we have had that less revenue from excise duties is related to oil derivatives during the summer period, that there is less income from cigarettes, that there is less income from flour and everything else. We have also warned that it is urgent to introduce stamps on flour and we have calculated that in a gray economy and means trading on the black state budget annually damages a billion kuna. We've got the exact calculation, and now we've come to, something's done in that part, but since 1.7 this year, stamps have been introduced. So we dropped what? 500 million kuna. Half a billion kuna, we dropped what was needed in the State budget. About the cigarettes I, long ago we spoke to the variant, how it is possible that the cigarettes produced in Croatia can be bought on any salary or elsewhere without a stamp or with a stamp of Republika Srpska. By what he's saying? He's saying it's smuggling. For oil derivatives, the situation is very simple. So it's also about smuggling because the tanks don't essentially come out of Croatia, but it's paper out and it's sold in Croatia, and that's why this situation is clear that during the summer period, we have fewer incomes than oil derivatives, and the situation is very simple. He'll get rid of it with a chip. You put yourself on a tanker and you know where that tanker is and what area is it? Other things are very important, and this applies to various other, other mechanisms that will ensure that the State budget is charged. One of these projects is what Minister Schuker knows. The state register they have outside in a way that knows in all retailes that the state has given her class, register and everything that enters has no change of program and is known at all times the whole situation. We know what the situation is like with, let's just take it in the cafes. You know the situation here, so the state doesn't take what it needs. Your variant is very simple. Let's say you leave the receipt from the consumption, say, the drinks at the coffee shop. After that, you won't have as many as 200 kunas as the example was, but it'll throw it all out to you, it'll only be 2 seconds to drink two mineral waters. So the state of the State budget situation we see and it's not good ourselves and it's obvious that we have to go on the variant to go in, in establishing one and the reform of the entire tax system in a way that our tax system is being developed, to allow the economy to be easier and easier and to, that the possibility of establishing a state bank, which is very important fact for the development of the economy on the one hand and that thinking, we see that already right, the introduction of snowflakes in many parts was craftsy, was related to various territorial and other activities, because we know ourselves that both craftsmen and all others are complaining about the situation, which is that they have to have accounting and everything else too much than... which makes it impossible for them to develop. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So everything we said then we're talking right now. We said it was unrealistic. We now use this people's period to finally go into the creation of a tax system that will be a developmental one, which will actually start an economy, and in this way will raise the question of employment, and without development and without employment, there is no job creation, because the fact that 74% of VAT is charged on customs is enough about everything. It speaks enough of everything and that the duty of so much nature and so much shape that we must cut through, and most intelligently to start immediately with one full reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12753	Please, nice. It's on behalf of the HNS-PGS Club, dear colleague Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12754	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I am convinced that many HTV viewers plus in Croatia, after the start of this transfer, have sent us some fine congratulations when we have disrupted their expectations of film or other programs, and that the excitement in the new South Wales, Oregon and Ontario is terribly great because of these discussions about how much VAT will be in Croatia in the coming year. During the day bilateral talks were held between the heads of the government and part of the opposition parties in this Parliament in which we did not participate, and it is good that it enables us to remind and repeat our arguments when we expressed serious suspicion in the first and second readings that the reduction of VAT is the best move. As the first argument, we stated that prices in retail trade will not fall by 2%, where it will happen in expensive goods that will be 1.6%, and that the biggest profit by such tax policy in value added tax will actually be taken by traders and trading houses. Second, we warned that the missing 3 billion kuna in the rust budget would be difficult to make up for but the argument was that the better charge and the greater tax discipline in 2005 would make up for the predictable minus power. And that was also said on behalf of the tax administration that expressed its willingness to meet that goal. Our third argument when we were against it is that 72% of the value added tax on Croatiasak charges at the border, so when customs duties on imported goods, and that we will make 72% of the goods even cheaper to come and... Our fourth argument was that the tax n added value also has a regional aspect and consequences because its consequences are not the same in those regions where the structure of the economy is such that it produces goods that or which have no competition with imports, unlike those regions such as the međimurje where over 60% of the economy produces goods that are subject to exceptional imports such as textiles, shoes, and food. And fifthly, instead, we suggested that through an increase in the untaxable part of the salary, and redistribution of tax income, in favour of municipalities of cities and county. The same effect was achieved in favour of the citizens, but instead of 3 billion to account for some one billion kunas. When we discussed in the programme of the government that Prime Minister Sanader presupervised in this house, I said he could bring him down to one sentence. That this is a government programme that addresses less taxes and greater social rights. Everything that's happened with smaller taxes so far we're going back to the old ones, and everything that happened with social rights after the first reading doesn't appear in the second reading. If, therefore, the correct information or claim that the tax administration in Croatia is ready and able to charge 3 billion kuna more by increased tax discipline than it has been so far in value added tax, I welcome it. However, I ask the question why a law that would only start applying from 1.1 next year must be changed by an emergency procedure and adopted in a regular procedure in two readings. What is so important in Croatia until Friday of this week or perhaps in Washington is something more important, which we would have to do by Friday by emergency procedure. We've received all the inforlations we've given up on all the dangers or pressures that we've been exposed to when we have to make this decision. Dalil is the reason only in Croatia or in Zagreb or elsewhere. When we talked about value added tax and our alternative through income tax, and then both the Prime Minister and Minister Schuker said that in the autumn of this year they themselves will come with a proposal to continue tax reform which will also cover income tax. And that's what the finance minister repeated several times today. Regardless of whether the model we have proposed for this home will be passed on the proposal of the Croatian People's Party and the PGS or the Government is important to us to bring. And that the untaxed part of the salary or different income tax results in an increase rather than a salary without the employer's new burden. However, in such a proposal, the Croatian government and the finance minister have the position of the International Monetary Fund. DO NOT happen again in the fall of the first reading to discuss such tax changes, because the reforms and around Christmas we return the matter to the beginning because some official or member of the world’s financial gendarme thinks that this should not be done in Croatia. And finally, if and apparently as no eight, I said that I am sure that the reduction in value added tax will be voted now I am sure that the reduction will already be voted. But reminding you of this, it means that in the next year the state budget won't run out of 3 billion, and I remember the promises that the tax administration will charge 3 billion at a better charge. So next year because of the value added tax reduction and better billing, the government's cash register can be richer by 6 billion kuna. And that's mathematics perfectly clear without any metaphysics that fellow Czechok would say he has problems because he's always in that government or coalition that's made mistakes that he's attacking. So I believe in the 6 billion next year, and I'm sure and confident that with a verse of 6 billion higher incomes that we didn't even see fit to become, the question of deficits this year will be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12755	Thank you, dear colleague. On behalf of the Libre Club, dear colleague Herman, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12756	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues are due from those peaks, so here's the last one. I think it can actually be applied this whole day that the occasional mustache of our minister still plays, I'd say there's no way to show dissatisfaction. He had to fight political battles weren't easy. But basically that mustache game seems to me because of what powers can be satisfied. His register will be his budget will be filled in the way it should actually be, and in that sense here in the calm of this day I can say although there is a mustache to understand that smile on that side. But here's my mustache still won't go away because unfortunately this is happening with the VAT rate. A few months too late. We could have done it a long time ago without touching this sensitive matter. And that's why sometimes it's not bad to remember what things look like when it starts especially when it starts euphoric, when it starts with a lack of insight into what's actually the seriousness of matter, and then you get the title of our reports from the Croatian Parliament, here's what it looks like here, 22-2=20. Of course, it's quite true, but it turns out that after a few months it's not true or maybe it can't be true. And in the same reports, and yet not to face the famous story of memories that are so quickly repeated by some similar or even more serious mistakes, it will be good to remember what the prime minister then said very confidently, resolutely, as I suppose the Croatian prime minister should act but what, after a few months with the same claims. So here's a quote: among the first reasons the government decided to reduce VAT rates from 22% to 20% is its assessment that this will contribute to the growth of standards, purchasing power and employment. The question is whether or not something else is being questioned, because the funds will be collected neatly, it may be possible to do so right now, but what to do with contradiction. I am further equally confident that it is not bad, but it is not good if, after three months, that confidence is transformed into a complete opposite, this statement goes: The guarantees are given to reduce the VAT rate and that is exactly what the decision is made by the Parliament, not the Government, and the deadline of 1 January 2005 is appropriate. It was then necessary to explain why the delay in VAT reduction was necessary. The difference between this and the former government is that it will keep its promises. Whether it should be concluded that both authorities are, in fact, one option at a time, the same, or that neither of them keep their promises or keep them equally. It would be good if we weren't really playing around, but actually facing the essence of the problem, and he's still going to be at the level of what's going on in total with the tax system and what's going on with the credibility of a policy that's pretty much wandering around. But that the mustache I mentioned here, however, is a little disturbing I will quote both my colleague and Mr. Shucker, who at the same meeting of the Parliament, who then stated that the European Union's intensity is a reduction in tax rates, honour of intensity and the introduction of one VAT rate and commented on warnings that there will be no effect, he said that a reduction of 2% of VAT on all investments in local self-government units opens up the possibility of 2% higher investment in the coming year, and without creating conditions for their economic development does not have a quality recovery of the Croatian economy. Are we actually faced with the fact that our Croatian regions, namely Slavonia and Baranja, for example by this procedure now, are actually in trouble with this retardation and that there will be no expected economic development or because of the smiling mustache because there will be sources now, that this is exactly what will happen. And there the devil is, incessant contradictions, contradictions, contradictions. As a result, another one is very interesting, says Mr. Schuker, the minister, claims that VAT rates cannot be reduced and revenues today are only three months ago 8.5 billion are said to be higher than 1999. What's this about? It seems that the promises to cut VAT rates are days if we remember correctly, only three days before the election. Some say it was well-informed, says it was a suggestion from small counterpart Pabic, probably well-designed, but comes three days before the election, and surely that promise did not affect the results of the election. In my court, it was actually meant if all this was true, about the unnecessary and hasty promise. The question can also be asked whether the government is returning if it speaks outrightly, in fact to common sense or reality, to what we live with, which is either our daily routine or perhaps just a fluke impressed by facing close encounters with the International Monetary Fund. Of course, it would be better if it were common sense, but this passing also leads to the main objective, we share the status of candidates and set deadlines for negotiations with the European Union. But there is one more thing, perhaps this is a signal that the government stops dealing with populism, creating diverse and colorful political alliances. These alliances literally require a lot of money, but something else, they punish at the end of the average Croatian citizen, namely middle class, doctors, professors, lawyers, economists in these professions especially younger. I would like to remind you that Mr. Shucker spoke in 17.3.2004 about tax reform and, in fact, the possibility of limiting the year-old benefits of renting flats, the purchase of medicines, the role in the third pension column and life insurance. These benefits are said to have been reportedly favourable only to those who have above average income. But the question is, what are they in Croatia? I think that, in fact, because of the 22% VAT rate, the government will have the opportunity to do what conservative parties and governments in the European sense and do, which is that they are just relying on the middle layer, in fact, on large capital. This is a feature of the modern conservative European party. And there won't be any anxiety about how to raise about 3 billion kuna funds that will be missing or missing by eliminating the 22% VAT rate. And so, and let it be, if it is necessary to take over, I simply want to address you with gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, be normal European conservatives, those are the ones you pronounce yourself and be, and by something else, according to your political manners, that is, political bonton. It is also possible to mistake democracies that recognise authentic values as a rule when there is a failure in such projects to require an apology from the bearers of these projects, to admit the error is not a shame. But in the whole story, you can go through the libra club's court completely rational, which is what we talked about earlier. This means to restructure the expenditure side of the budget. Simpler, do not pay the price of political alliances unless it is necessary and literally different, therefore, realistically plan the spending side of the state budget. If you're not going to restructure the expenditure sooner or later it's going to have to happen. You, Mr. Minister, are announcing a rebalancing process, and then the giants need to reduce the contribution, which reduces the cost of work, which is for Croatia dramatically. One of the most dramatic issues, the question of how to increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. And finally, recalling some earlier exposure to this topic, as well as issues related to local self-government, in fact, regionalisation and decentralisation, we warn that it would be very important to finally discuss what is going on with income tax, which we still think should belong to the units of local self-government. Similarly, it is with the profit tax in which the same large part must be found for local self-government units and that the systematicly designed, in fact, excessive tax reform, and from that angle that belongs to modern conservatives, Croatians, and European orientations belong, so that these procedures happen, such tax reform. Our desire is that the government doesn't fall for this kind of thing because it's the fallout at the end of all of us. Filling the budget is a circumstance that simply represents, as pathetic as it is, the fate of this country and wouldn't be worth playing around with. Here, Mr. Minister, I want you to play the top because that 22% will certainly make it more stable, but I also want you to present us with that tax reform that will allow Croatian development, and that is also the development of Croatian regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12757	Thank you, dear colleague. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague of the Wrestlers. Here you go, buddy. Thank you, dear colleague. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague of the Wrestlers. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12758	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, although we planned to change the course of the agenda, what happened happened, but that first half-time came in handy for this second half. So maybe part of the short conversation from the first part, very briefly, with certain HSP colleagues calling and going outside, but all of us to read what's in Glass 389, which one of us said, so we'll briefly mention. But unfortunately, there aren't any, but mostly because of them. But he's doing this VAT debate right now. In fact, starting from that point on, it was even possible to conclude that almost unanimity should not touch the VAT, so we said for the sake of social policy, because of development policy, for the sake of everything else, but the government is assessing that it will have the starting position it was planning and that it will also be able to hold the state deficit level at an acceptable 4 and a half, 46 somewhere next year. That they will be able to service this part in such a way that social giving is not significantly compromised. Of course, changes in the structure are always possible depending on solving problems or vulnerable groups, as they occur in society. But here's to reminding itself, and just one thought about what we felt was important to point out back then from the HDZ. That it's actually the beginning of a reform. Of course, now we can ask a question because it is also delaying the start of the reform and I would not believe it to be so. Anyway, I'll just say one thought, read about this who said what, so one thought that I was commenting on and today I'm going to repeat it on behalf of the club. Of course, we consider such a change temporary and primarily for those reasons of stabilising internal, external debt, maintaining deficits, but also social giving, so through this way it will probably remain the part that I was told earlier that could be a synergistic effect. It's about that, then. We'll see what synergic effect happens in that. So I said about that, because it was about whether VAT and how much it would affect itself, its prolonging, so from January 1st to next year and returning to 2nd or 20%, the VAT rate correction from 22 to 20 proposed by the government is an attempt to cut taxes anyway. So, to start tax reform, to start. However, the application of the uniform rate should also be accompanied by other measures of social and tax policy. This means that there should be income taxation and all that goes on as we say. But it's not my intention to quote yourself, it's my thoughts, because it's just been warned about how we were all smart back then, so here we are, estimating what could happen. It is precisely with this correction from the danger and risk that the deficit cannot be maintained at a certain level, and in addition to service the obligations that are coming, there is also a question when we are now, again I will not deliberately polarise with anyone, but on behalf of the club to say that we have heard in the morning debate many more different assessments than the debate on the report, the budget calculation for the past year. So most of the time, the thread was running around it, someone was holding something back, if HDZ wasn't because it wasn't in the budget or it wasn't in the way to deny the data. And that data is now, so again, I say tolerantly, whether it's 6 or 7 or 6, or 7, 2, but it's the starting position, so that's what we're going into. And it should be conscious in the next year, back to a certain acceptable level from which we could then strive as the second level so that we could service it. In that sense, I will again, technically, reassess these phenomena in revenue and expenditure, and this expected synergic effect possible, if VAT remains at this level that we propose to remain until further notice, until a new change of course. To implement these other fiscal policy measures, which we considered appropriate, and I think it is also appropriate to adopt a budget for next year. And that, as part of this, until and at the same time, inclusion in that part can be done. And now, of course, it would be a question of what happens to such a situation when VAT decreases. Some people feel that social giving can also be compromised. I would reverse the question or thesis and antithesis about it, and that is the question if we keep, i.e. prolonging the use of VAT from 22 to 20, i.e. this rate of this height remains for the following year. That then, in revenue, we can carry out this impact of both the negative deficits and debts and the stabilisation of the market. That even what we can say here is a lot of individual debates, of course, and in the name of the clubs, that we can keep the development component, but also in the other part, on the consumer side, the expenditures, that we will be able to keep most of the social level because it is about the question whether from this starting point of view the deficits start to decrease in the next year rather than endanger those other expenditures that we would have on this second spending page. In that sense, we believe that social giving and the rest should not be particularly endangered. If talking about the "stand by" arrangement, we can mention it again, yes or no, but I point out again that we are somehow forced to extend the talks, but that does not mean any blackmail. I personally would never accept it, but blackmail in a way that blocks the personal goals of the nation's country and that in that context we should try to make an agreement to get an optimus out of it, to keep this rate and that it will mean that the development component and social, etc., if all of this were true, then there should be no risk of this, of these social givings. The question that was, and it's likely that later in the debates, we'll try again, if it's necessary to quote what someone said back then, but not at the moment, it wouldn't be at all convenient to say any clubs again, either individually as we've embezzled or in some other way cheated, so that's how we break down the dignity of this home. It is true that we have come from different positions, different assumptions and that now that we have come to the final position and the final assessment that at this point it is not possible to try to continue with this rate until further notice, the moment will not be estimated when it was possible to continue. But the debate over this VAT at this point could also have been delayed when the budget was made in the coming time, but the current phase of the talks that the government is currently on, and all of us together insists that we are already defining some goals and some of the policymakers, and therefore we suggest that today, these days and these days and adopt and discuss, that this rate is being prolonged, and I repeat that no one's interests will be threatened, except of course that the part is being prolonged, let's often be made promises, so if that's a promise, then it's our risk, but I hold that this risk, so here's a good predecessor well said that it neither influence nor will matter. It will be more important that these effects remain, if we were to advocate, that they remain precisely in order to stabilise, the finances of state finances, and that this second part of which should continue on the tax reform continues to be accumulated and through so-called. ... continue the stabilisation of society, the stabilisation of the state, the stabilisation of public finances, and through these other measures that we will take to help both the public and the economy that will then be able to feel through Croatian politics. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. We consider this part that we will, of course, support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12759	Thank you, dear colleague. It's on behalf of the HSS Club, dear colleague Pecek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12760	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. I don't think it's gonna take me as long as it's up to the debate at the club, because a lot of things we've already said, we can only figure out from that old folk's "shake is hard, we're born niche", this time we've already figured out for a few cases that happened here in Parliament, where we've lost a lot of time, we've gone back to old solutions or we haven't found any new solutions better said. The mention here of Sunny Hvar from the phenomenal partnership of the public, private to giving up the project. The ecological-fishing zone is expecting us tomorrow from burning announcements of several billion euros in savings for the next few years, if we enter the project, for something we give up. We swore to all of that, so that's how it happened to us with the VAT. We give up. We're giving up the application, and it's probably a good solution to what we're giving up. However, it is not good that we have not discussed here in Parliament what will happen to those details relating to VAT, and that these details are actually big things for our entrepreneurs, for our citizens. We didn't say at all, which means reducing the tax burden on citizens. Of course, he won't be. We're returning the VAT to 22%, that's not gonna happen. Are we going to burden the citizens with taxes? Because it's obvious that the state's revenues need to be even higher, because expenditures also have ambitions to grow much more. We swore, or heard that word, that it was the first step towards tax reform. Here we are already on that first step. I appeal not to kneel to the end. I appeal to continue with tax reforms in this direction to strengthen the competitiveness of Croatian products. It's not just VAT, I think VAT is pretty neutral for entrepreneurs, so that's not the best-quality solution. However, tax reform could go in at least one part before autumn, and I assure you that we are impatient to see exactly such a proposal and to support it. But first of all, to reduce the budgetary consumption of a country that is still too big. I am also not convinced that what was written in the last explanation of the law that the reduction of VAT is more socially fair than the increase in the non-taxable part of income, because I believe that we must seek additional steps in order to enable citizens to improve standards and also motivate entrepreneurs to enter and implement projects more ambitiously. It is particularly easy to comment on how this reduction will affect more effective tax collection. Because we're staying at 22%. This claim does not stand in the previous proposal. Like the fact that it won't work to reduce the grey economy, the reduction rate. Therefore, the status quo remains there. We also know how tax loss will compensate, i.e. what tax needs are in revenue by 2.7 billion, we said that we would make up for them by paying better taxes. However, we do not have answers to what will happen after the increase in the rate, or abandonment of the project. What is absolutely certain is that the growth rate of the social gross product in the plan is lower than last year and last year, and that is a fact that we cannot influence. However, we at the HSS Club think that here in Parliament first should be a debate on how to reduce the state budget, i.e. state spending, and only then to amend the Law on this highest income called VAT. We'd just like to reduce the gray economy in a different way. High growth rates in the economy. However, in order to do so, we ask you to try to create a policy of development budget, of course, which would respect the necessary social moments. And the competitiveness of the economy we're going to step up just by carrying out further discharge. We'll remind you so far we've charged taxes on profit and income, 2+2% of contributions to pension and health insurance. And we're going to take extra steps to make this competition more quality. I think the VAT is neutral for the economy, because we couldn't expect any special effects. Inflation is moving within 2%, we claimed that VATs will also work better with lower inflation rates. I also think it's pretty neutral and we shouldn't be looking for any new solutions. I am pleased to see that, through the amendment of the law, this will have a quality effect on the trade balance. Because the Croatian consumer today, and it's probably going to be like that tomorrow, hopefully not in the future, buys 50% of the import goods. The lower VAT rates would mean higher imports, would mean cheaper imports. We're going to balance that relationship a little bit here. And of course we at the HSS will support such a proposal to change the rate because we think it is necessary at this point. Congratulations to Minister Shuker on probably getting a consensus on the proposal, and we will probably thanks to the return of this particular model that the opposition has been exposed to in general, to create a more high-quality budget that will respect the social but that will also bring about the necessary components of development. So I call on us to talk about it before autumn because autumn is pretty far away, expectations are much higher and needs, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12761	Thank you, dear fellow Pecek. It's on behalf of the SDP Club, dear colleague Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12762	Mr. Chairman, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club believes this bill is good. Even though it's a good law, we're neither happy nor thrilled. We are unhappy that by discussing this House on this Law, I must say that we do not see a clear economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we do not see what the message has been in these five months. Over the past 5 months, Prime Minister Sanader and the Croatian Democratic Union have also said that the party that wants to behave Europeanly, that the party that will communicate, which will talk in Croatia, and that was a special message from the HDZ Parliament, have been talking. For 5 months we have discussed in this House that development and consumption go hard, that the economy is not capable of carrying burdens and development and consumption. We also made it very clear that any reduction in budget revenues threatens both development and necessary social spending. That's what we talked about here, that's what we talked about. And despite our promise to talk, to listen to each other, that didn't happen. Unfortunately, not only are we political representatives but also public, professional science in Croatia has made it clear that this is not a good move. So, we talk, we change, we communicate, we want to talk, we need dialogue, but it's gone. He's gone, and that's when mistakes like this happen. There are mistakes in which under the pressure of the financial world we give up on this. It's not communication, it's not what we expected after the really clear messages we got in political life, so we're not happy. We regret to see again those ways of conduct that we thought we would no longer have: arrogance, arrogance, supremacy, and intolerance. That's what disappoints us, that's what makes us unhappy. Yes, it is difficult when the world has to warn that the Croatian government has to state whether it wants to continue development projects, in which it either wants to go into consumption as a result of the election promises. It requires worlds, we in Croatia can't get that answer because we don't communicate. But the world is looking for a clear answer. And that's why today we're talking about returning the VAT to 22%. I'd still like to say there's a big difference between us, a big difference and that's the truth. You see, coalition parties also spoke in pre-election promises about VAT cuts. Yeah, yeah, they said that, too. And I remember both the reasons and the reasons why we don't implement that decision. And you know what the reasons were? Because we said that we estimated that to support the economy, we needed to reduce the contributions, so they reduced the contributions to pension and health insurance. So we said we needed to change the profit tax rate, so we changed that too. So we said we should make it easier on income tax and we said that's why we're giving up the change in VAT rate. Yeah, we said, we said one thing, and we changed our policies. Why? Because we have assessed that this is an incentive for entrepreneurship, we have estimated that it is the development of Croatia. You know what kind of epithets we got? Cheat voters, lie, betray voters, irresponsible politicians because of their political promises. Yes, I heard that in this bench, I heard it especially from Minister Shuker as a parliamentary representative. Those were messages. We accepted them calmly, we accepted them calmly, we put up with them standing. Maybe someone can say it that way. Maybe someone can say that. But the policies of the coalition government were clear. He gives up his political promises to change the tax presy to the economy and to allow the economy to develop. How are you acting? Well, you see, gentlemen, at this point, are your messages giving up because the Croatian economy cannot spend and develop? No, your messages, they cheated on the IMF, they cheated on the citizens of Croatia, they cheated on the government, they hid the data, that's why we're changing the law now, and we're raising VAT. It's messages. Are they true? Well, you see, that remains on your conscience. You're the one who's trying to justify raising the VAT with that explanation. Lifting VAT from 20 to 22, that's the bill. If you say so now, we can't do it because the former government cheated. Is that European behavior again? Is this the way to communicate, is this the way of dialogue that you have tried to present and vote in 5 months? Well, you see it's not. The story of these debts lasts a full five months. Despite the handover and all the documents in the handover, in addition to the clear data continuously when it is sought to show that certain electoral promises cannot be realised requires a reason in the former government's work. It's really European. I didn't know that. And watch out, the six billion you spent, that was the first piece of information that was thrown out in January, and it wasn't recorded. These are debts, and after that, indeed because of the European behaviour, Prime Minister Sanader has scheduled a meeting, we sit and do not dispute. We're not arguing. Yes, in 2004, it will be charged and built miles of road in last year and reconstruction in last year and healthcare in, from last 2003. It's all unequivocal. And the railroad will come. Yeah. That's confirmed at that meeting. And it's said: we don't want to argue at all that the burden is in 2004. That it's the exorcism of the government of Eve Sanader. Yeah, none of us challenged that. None of us have disputed. And we understood each other, we parted. But it wasn't enough. The budget is always tight for Croatia as it comes to finally meeting the fact, we want to keep development, we do not want to give up on it, and there is no space for election promises for consumption. Who's to blame? The former government, the European model of communication. And of course imagine 6 billion, 12 billion failures and hidden costs of the former government. It's all in favor of material. And again the debate, again the accusations, again I would say the problem of how to realize both consumption and development at the same time. It's not working. It's not working. And that's when we get to the second VAT reading. So clearly, unequivocally: there are costs in this year that were created last year. There are. It will be paid from this budget, the burden that is present, which no one disputes, no one. But despite this, we are democratically discussing, listening to each other, we say, don't lose three billion kunas of revenue in the 2005 budget. There's not enough money to keep the finances stable, to maintain development, and there's also no money to increase consumption. We warned you to watch out for the railroads. You've lifted 60 limes for the railroad, there can be no railway development. Without the development of railways, this is a huge problem of funding from the State budget. There'll be no money, but we don't hear from each other. We speak Croatian, so it's a problem. I'm even thinking of speaking English in the House in the future if the president lets me. Maybe we'll get along better. See, that's our problem. We knew everything, we talked everything and we understood each other, but election promises are a problem. Election promises and government meetings with the possibility of a Croatian budget. With the possibility of Croatian economy. And yes, that's why we have to understand. Five months were all familiar, every number, every data. And I can't, not go back to point one. Finally, we've determined the deficit is slightly less than 5%. That's the data we discussed this morning. And one more thing, yes. It will make payments in 2004 commitments last year. Three and a half billion. Three and a half if Minister Schucker says so. In 2004. When was VAT due to be applied? 1.1.2005. 2005. There are no debts from the past. There are no debts from the past days. It's debts to be paid this year. And then comes the real fact. The actual fact that it says: there is no room in the Croatian budget to maintain development and to maintain the consumption we have promised. You know, a man now comes to want us to scream like you did to us: you cheat on voters, you cheat on voters. Should we tell you that? Well, no. We don't want to talk like that. It's your cult of communication. But we'll tell the voters that you're not a party that got the European uniform, that it was your wish, but that you're still far from it. That the biggest problem is that we don't understand Croatian, that we want to listen to each other. Yeah. That's my dear gentlemen's biggest problem. These problems will continue to arise. It will continue to occur, but you see I am also happy that the first step in tax reform has failed because perhaps then the first step that you will propose by the end of the year will be better quality. The value added tax, its percentages are not the ones that will allow for development. They're not you. And it is evident that in the battle for development we are suggesting and we will fight to hear us, to hear us. However, the tax reform must first and foremost take place in contributions because the contributions are those affecting the labour price and affecting the economy, and then we do not have to worry so much about the development of the Republic of Croatia. And that is why we are grateful to you for the proposed proposal. Perhaps the development will win in Croatia after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12763	Thank you very much. I would like to inform my representatives that the time has passed in the Rules of Procedure for the application of the debate of 10 minutes and before I give my word to the Prime Minister of Finance, we have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First he asked for a correction, Mr. Representative Zeljko Nenadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12764	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is not true that in the alleged respected colleague Linić that we are changing VAT due to development programmes because we have not given up the construction of roads either, as you can see, are still being built, nor are the renovation of housing, the modernisation of railways, but those 2% of VAT and in 3 billion kuna will be spent dues, not on development programmes. And it is not true that you have not disputed the existence of the commitments that have arisen because since I sit in this House, it has been done on several occasions and in several points of the agenda that the existence of the 2003 commitments that will be paid in 2004 have been challenged, and who has deceived the voters and who cheats on them has already been said on November 23rd, and I think that question is quite deplaced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12765	And this is more of an opinion than a correction to an incorrect quote, so I ask the others who have applied to stick to the Rules of Procedure in this regard. Now there is a correction to the incorrect quote Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12766	It's already been repeated several times, in fact, for the sake of the public, that you didn't run any independent policies in relation to the IMF. It is true that only 8 days since the handover of the authorities misrepresented the situation by saying that, I quote: fiscal policy continues to aim at reducing budget deficits from the general 4.8 GDP in 2002 to 4.5 in 2003. This is nothing but a public announcement because the government deficit was not already around 9 billion euros at the time but was exceeding 13 billion kuna, or as this government calculated lastly, 6.7%. It's an ugly hard truth and it doesn't make anything beautiful. So that's what happened last year, and I don't really see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12767	Thank you. Next, Josip Djakic has a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12768	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I will correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Linic, in which he claims that election promises are a problem for which the PDWE returns to 22%. The election of promises is not a problem but the problem of believing the Croatian government at the head of a p-remier Sanader that a really fair work and fairer state budget has been shown. And that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12769	Mr. Kresimir Cosic now has a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12770	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Linic said we speak Croatian and we don't understand each other. I'd suggest I might help English. It seems to me that neither English nor French would help because Mr. Linic has said that the deficit of the state budget is 5.1%, BDpa and here clearly stands that the deficit of the state's prime account is 6.7% of the gross domestic product. IO is the essence. It's not about language, it's about being able to accept the facts, the numbers, the documents. It's not art it's very simple and it needs to be wanted and able. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12771	Thank you. Mrs. Ivana Judge Trakostane.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12772	It is incorrect, Mr. Vice President, that we first deceived the public by providing false information on the height of the deficit. So he's definitely about 7% and he's not 5 or 5.1. And it's not true that we failed the expectations of the voters because we told them conditionally to say so because we were about to say that we would lower the tax on condition that they were correct about the deficit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12773	Thank you. In your opinion, it's not 5 or something, it's 7. You're saying it's 7 good that it is. That's it now. I report and give my word to Mr. Ivan Shuker to the motionary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12774	Thank you very much, Mr. President, we have had the opportunity to attend a political praise to ourselves and to ourselves. So if these macroeconomic indicators in Croatia are as good, why is Croatia in charge today as much as it is in charge. why Croatia has such an external trade deficit and why Croatia today has the same number of unemployed as it did in early 2000. It is very strange that we have learned lessons about haughtiness and arrogance from those who have not had time for four years to receive a parliamentary representative. And I'm, like, the minister at Mr. Linic's first call, and I got him on the phone to see if we could talk about some kind of problem. And let's say I waited four years for him to accept me for a conversation about a problem that pushed the city of Velika Gorica. So much for obnoxiousness, and so on. The lessons about Europeanism have been taught to us by those who have feared us for 50 years with a branch towards Austria, according to Italy and feared us with...so they teach us lessons about europesetva. And I think the debate on PDV is about teaching Europeans I don't think it makes any sense or anything. And as far as porn reform was concerned, there was a full debate here, and there was talk and suggestions and even the best ideas coming from the opposition benches, there was no way to go because yours was the best. And here I'm saying that you didn't cut the profit tax rate but you increased it. The average tax profit rate using interest protection was around 11% in Croatia. And today it's 20%, although you want that profit out of the company you have to pay an extra 15%. So the cumulative rate is 32%. About what you've done with income tax, it's better not to come to terms with it. Because if we're talking about development if we're talking about ptoics of development, then everyone's capital has the same value. And the funds achieved from that capital have the same right to be taxed equally. This, however, cannot happen even in madness under this income tax law. Also a zero VAT rate in tourism, it was wanted to help hotelers, but a number of those who did not have that place left next to the hoteliers. Now the question is what is going on on the Adriatic coast and who is the co-founder of it. They gave me a non-european party that kept hiding or those who passed the laws and who in a very strange way and weird formulations allowed some to deal with activities so as not to pay taxes. Because zero tax on added value. There I was talking about several times in this assembly but the arguments numbered here don't help. Because the political dogma was always stronger than the argument because it was some time ago, and it stuck to it. So, by introducing a zero VAT rate in tourism at that point, services that are taxable because with a zero-foot isos was somewhere around 13 billion a year. And after the introduction of a zero rate in tourism, these zero services and tax-free products have grown to some 19 and a half billion kuna. Since foreign tourists' arrival at zero-foot hotels has dropped only a billion and 900 million kuna in traffic, the question of who opened the hole for these 4 and a half billion kunas is then raised. The law on incentives to invest in profit tax, except you're not the name and address of companies that will be able to benefit from that privilege in 2002. We can enter the archives of the tax administration today, and see which companies could use it. That's public speaking from this pay phone. But no one wanted to hear it. And now, four years later, we're being taught our praises about our haughtiness, about how we don't want to talk. how we've drawn some kind of cover of the European party and now... You can think of these European naive suckers who opposed Sanader's trick and accepted HDZ as a European party. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's amazing what naive people are and how they've naively swallowed it in a month. And now they need the SDPe from Croatia to show no, it's not a European party, it's not Sanader that they are there nationalists boast and so on. Once again, we'll probably be a party of dangerous intentions. Because that's how you characterized us and 90 of us. But in political speeches and jargons and rhetoric arguments when they come on their own. The 2004 budget will also begin, so every position will be seen exactly what you said did not exist, that it is paid from the 2004 budget. And now if you have a budget limit and if from that budget you have to pay something normal that what you planned to do out of the budget that you couldn't do because you had to pay what your predecessors told you. And the normal thing is, I'm gonna have to do it in 2005. And that's that reflex. That's what's going on. But I'm saying, there's no story about not working. The Treasury doesn't pass, no argument passes. It's all wonderful and wonderful in this country, but they came in as one distracted minister, incompetents, those who have no idea of anything, and they're simply going to ruin this country and they're dangerous for the state and we're just so naive that we don't understand using all the graces left over from the last government. That's amazing. So, on the one hand, all European and world politicians, on the other hand, came some HDZ incompetents who so fantasticly prepare and so fantastic economy can't use and they'll ruin it all. But there's something I'd like to say. If in one year, 8.5 billion dollars comes to one country, if that country in that year has negative economic growth in the other half, I don't think there's any need for that comment. I think that makes it clear. So, gentlemen, you've put us to bed. You left us and the '90s in a lot of debt, and I'm not gonna say that you left us with no defense funds, and you gave us lessons in 2000 again, and today you're giving us lessons. But it's very interesting that you've been saying all along that you've invested in development or something, but it's very interesting that you've never admitted to being you, so with what this country has been defending itself in the '90s, so that's why it should have been invested. With what the state has taken care of these large exiles not only from Croatia but from Bosnia and Herzegovina. But it's not taken as an argument. Money fell out of the air, bullets fell out of the air, the Croatian Army dressed out of the air, it was all from the air. So it's no argument. But you, as you spend money on giving Bechtel or someone else a 20 million benefit for completed work that dear God is not clear why, that's fine, that's the goal of economic development. And leave us with something that we have to pay for and it's no argument. It's nothing. Unbelievable. I'm glad you said this a few times today, too. That shows the correctness of this government. We used what you signed up for and to show the entire Croatian public that you did not register it in the state budget and that we will pay for it in 2004. So much for correctness. So, gentlemen dear, you've left us with debts, you've created obligations that are very difficult to settle, and that's why the rate cannot be reduced to 1.1.2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12775	I thank Minister Shuker. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Vedovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12776	I have to say that a little bit of what Mr. Shucker has just said is true, most of it is incorrect. I'm just going to correct the quote in one piece as long as it allows me one minute, that we've left the debt without leaving anything behind. I remind you again, we inherited the economy in 2000 accumulated 26.6 billion. In 2000, we paid back 10 billion old debts, which amounted to 6.5% of the social product. We inherited Croatia in which the salary was 3,055.00 kuna, and left you with Croatia in which the salary was 3,981,00 kuna. We received from you Croatia in which the foreign savings were, say, 38 billion kuna, and we left the savings of citizens in banks in 93.7 billion kuna. We left, we got from you Croatia in whose approved housing loans amounted to 7 billion, and left you with 14 billion, twice as much. You left us Croatia where there were 12,000 apartments, when we left 20,000 apartments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12777	Thank you very much. Now there's a correction to Mr. Joseph Leco's incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12778	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm asking Mr. Secretary of Finance not to qualify for the misdemeanor of our counsel with a lesson. I don't feel myself here as Mr. Secretary does. I feel like I'm a representative of the public, and I'm asking that you respect me like that. It's an incorrect claim that we're in charge of you. You are not Croatia, you have just been given the right to manage Croatia. If we're in charge of someone, we're in charge of the citizens and Croatia, and they have their own judgment on that. They have their own judgment, and you can't qualify for what we've been doing, what we haven't. If it's a qualification, then remember your conversion and privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12779	You've also corrected your opinion, and no quote like before. Gentlemen of MPs and MPs, we move on to individual debates. The first is Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12780	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, HDZ has always shown extreme concern for the eviction, which is what it shows tonight. Our emigrants in Brazil, Uruguay, Paraguay, Venezuela, Patagonia, in a fiery country, in South New Wales have an extraordinary privilege of watching this debate in direct transmission. They do not have the privilege of Croatian citizens because HDZ tonight refused to lead this debate in front of cameras tomorrow so that they can hear and see it. He insisted that HDZ discuss this matter with a too important leader in this late hour. Why? Well, probably to hide this debate. It doesn't suit the HDZ public in this debate. The public here seems to be in the way. It does not fit HDZ to let the public hear that HDZ is easily canceling its pre-election promises. This is as if I now have before me Prime Minister Sanader who twice came to this House to explain in two readings two legal articles of the VAT Act. Full of pride, self-sufficient, explained why HDZ reduces VAT from 22% to 20%. He claimed HDZ wasn't like those before us. HDZ keeps its promises, today we see how. It's not this, I don't have any illusions. This is neither the first nor the last HDZ pre-election promise that will end like this. It's not the first one, it's not the last one. They know who voted for HDZ remembers fire debates when it comes to co-operation with The Hague. They believed HDZ would continue this way when it came to power. They believed. They also believed when HDZ said it would reduce the VAT rate. They also believed that HDZ was a keen advocate for an exclusive economic belt. They believed. Today they experience the fulfillment of their faith. And now for VAT. How did it even happen to shrink VAT? This promise was made at the last pre-election rally here in Zagreb. Two days before the election. Somehow, public change studies are that the game could be evened, that approximately the same number, so that the same number of votes could be received by the former coalition parties as the HDZ. The studies did not prove entirely accurate because the coalition parties received more votes in total than HDZ. But here's what the polls showed for two days before the election, the president of the HDZ thought of a great deal. We'll cut the VAT by 2%. What's this about? It's a classic example of voter fraud, by making false promises, or as the people would say, "selling horns for a candle". Buy a man a candle because he needs a candle, he thinks it'll light up, right? Then he comes home, wraps up the paper and sees there's no candle paper. There's a horn, and the horn doesn't shine. Why would he need a horn? Why does he need a horn? Anyone who tries to fool someone tries to be convincing. And I think it was April 2nd when Prime Minister Sanader came so magnificently to this House to fulfill his pre-election promise. To pass VAT reduction law. That's when we said it wasn't right, that it was stupid, that it was harmful. We suggested our proposal, smarter. No, I don't. The HDZ completely rejected it with such arguments. Dear counterpart Niko Rebić: "It is not only a mere execution of the pre-election promise, it is primarily an optimistic message to the public, that after 3.4 years of apathy and differentity can be done differently and better, and that taxes are not increased but on the contrary. They're shrinking." Here's one. Col. Jarnjak: "It is not true that HDZ's decision to cut VAT from 22% to 20% made it by heart and without a receipt. The spear was broken, and the computer and saw how these funds could be obtained in order to promise to reduce VAT from 22% to 20%." Here's those receipts today. And the crown of everything, Prime Minister Sanader. "We have not made a promise to cut VAT but we have already made a guarantee.". I won't comment on that at all. Then what happens after that? Here comes the IMF, Demescas, the talks last a few hours, a joint press conference. Prime Minister Sanader comes out and says, "That's a small condition. We will consider this condition, so if we decide to postpone this pre-election promise of VAT reduction then we will reduce other taxes." He considered it right up until tomorrow, and then a day later, after careful consideration of Prime Minister Sanader and the government and the corpora, an emergency cabinet session was called just a day before the government's regular session. To accept at that session the proposal for this law that we have today. What did you tell your former government? That he is an IMF servant, that he does not know how to defend national interests, that we are the badgers of Europe... No, I don't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What? I don't know, what did they say? ... But it doesn't matter. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I can't remember all these insults, but on the first boost, the IMF's first most slight support, Prime Minister Sanader called an emergency session of the government and his guarantee not to promise, he annulled his guarantee. He didn't even negotiate, he didn't even try to convince that his decision was right. He didn't even set up a new meeting to come with some arguments. No, the second day at the government emergency session, he annulled his guarantee. And now the most important. The deficit. On January 22nd, Minister Schuker announced at a cabinet session that the former government had lied about the deficit and said it was a 6.8-GDP deficit, not 4.5, according to Racan. So it's an interesting thing. The deficit did not bother when it was passed, when the VAT reduction law was proposed, but now it bothers when the law is withdrawn. Be careful, before the bill is proposed, Minister Schuker is already talking about some kind of deficit at the government's session. Indeed these percentages. In addition, no matter what the 93 deficit has to do with the VAT decision that should only be applied in 2005. So all of what we've heard today is that some kind of deficit is the reason why we're pulling a decision is incorrect. It's the first, illogical and the one who claims it has nothing to do with the elementary Aristotle logic. It's not a deficit reason. The reason is therefore a complete inability to resist the dictatorship outside. This is what we saw for example in The Hague, and we see this for example in the IMF, we will see this tomorrow in the example of Italy and Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12781	I thank Representative Stazic, who, behold, has produced one basis for correction and one replica, and we will begin with corrections. I ask the MPs who have come forward to correct the incorrect allegations, not to repeat the same general phrases that we want to display as a correction of the incorrect quote, and in fact it is only a correction of the opinion. So I would ask everyone in advance not to specifically warn you to stick to this, exactly what is prescribed as a correction to an incorrect quote, rather than opinions. The first one came from MP Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12782	The incorrect allegation, but also the conviction of fellow Stazic, is that the local audience cannot see it since it is transmitted via HTV Plus. My colleague Stazić, I assure you that I am watching HTV Plus in Horvačanska, Zagreb, and also in Glagoliska, Split. I believe that you are aware of this in order to introduce some innovations into your stage performance because this is how it works as a repetition of which the local audience is already used to and saturated.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12783	Thank you very much. Furthermore, Mrs. Katarina Fuček and also the correction of the incorrect allegations. She's giving up Katarina Fuchek. I thank her so much for giving up. Then Mrs. Ruza Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12784	Dear Vice President, Honorable Representative Stazic said the HDZ's interest in this debate is being held in such late hours to hide from the public. Which is not true. The HDZ proposed that this debate be conducted first thing in the morning at half past ten, and the SDP's club with others asked for a debate first on the implementation of the budget. It is also not true that this annulled the guarantee given by President Sanader. On the guaranteed card, it wrote improvements in standards and tax redundancy, which is not necessarily just a reduction in VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12785	Thank you to Mrs. Ruzi Lelic. Then Mrs. Maria Byte. Thank you and Maria Byte, for giving up, you're great. Mr. Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12786	I'm not giving up after all. Dearest counterpart Stazic said that by amending this HDZ law, he was almost, not actually, over, but overturning his pre-election promises. Of course, with this decision, the HDZ does not cancel its pre-election promises, but simply cannot deliver on those promises in the first or second year of its term of office. But also, the HDZ can fulfill another promise that has been opened by such a ludicrous borrowing abroad of the former Racan government, and I will remind you, Racan's Government has daily borrowed 80 million kunas abroad in its term of office, and that Croatia should in fact cancel the new HDZ promise that such measures and such decisions and such policies will save Croatia, rather than cancel Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12787	Mr. Representative, using the words insanely and so on, I don't think it's appropriate for this home, and I ask you, as well as any other advocates, to avoid such terms that don't really belong to this home, no matter who it is or who it refers to. Representative Ivan Bagarić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12788	My colleagues already fixed it, so I'm out.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12789	Thank you very much and Mr. Bagaric. Then Mr. Darko Mlinaric, vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12790	Well, my colleagues fixed what I was about to say, but I have to fix it, because I had a shock when Mr. Stazic said that only our emigrants in Venezuela, Argentina, the U.S.A., could follow this transmission. Just before my wife and three children called to follow that transmission, so I called back, asked, did the sun leave me when you were in Venezuela or Argentina, don't say, in Gospić I'm watching TV. And I know I'm a model husband.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12791	I am convinced that Mr. Stazic had no intention of causing the shock of Vice President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12792	I've had a shock.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12793	So it's intentional. Then he applied for correction Mr. Representative Branimir Pesecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12794	Mr. Vice President, when we're having such a good time, it's a shame to give up the denial of this false allegation. I'm really a little surprised to say that it's not true, that the guarantee has been annulled. Mr. Stazic, unlike Mr. Linic, who would at least seem relatively convincing to me, and usually sarcastic and I feel that hate is coming out of him, it is not good. You'll get sick. The people still believe in us, and he believed in you for a moment, and he was wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12795	Thank you very much. More correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12796	Well, actually, when you pull yourself out of context, you know, it's always about manipulation. And now I'm going to try to point out to Mr. Stazic what he said incorrectly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12797	Not an apparition, but a correct one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12798	I have no illusions, and he appeared to me in front of the Prime Minister's eyes. It's an illusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12799	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Ms. Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12800	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, it looks like for some fellow MPs this house has been turned into a small scene, so it happens often to Mr. Nenad Stazic, I think it would be good if he started dealing with something else, but less being in the Parliament. But he has the right to do so and be a parliamentary representative and director, and actor etc. It seems to him some others, even so on and so forth. However, I will look back on what Mr. Stazic said. "The HDZ is tonight showing concern for Croatian emigration in Uruguay, Paraguay, Chile, South America, etc., Venezuela etc." However, since 1990, the Croatian Democratic Community has shown its historical role towards Croatian emigration, through its programme, work, not only on paper, but in reality. Only I warn Mr. Stazic tonight, if it hadn't been for his party for 72 years, would the Croats have been less in Venezuela tonight, Paraguay, Uruguay, and so have you. They were driven away like you. They were driven away like you. And I have another correction to the incorrect quote, I'm sorry. Your Party sent them away, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12801	Did you report the correction incorrect?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12802	Yeah, both.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12803	I didn't notice that, but here's what I believe. Come on, let's get it straight. Did you answer the line? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12804	The other one. ... No, don't forgive me, he could've gotten up a line while I was talking, please. [[speaks out loud, doesn't understand]] But his second phrase was tonight. This is not a pre-election promise that the Croatian Democratic Community will bypass in this regard. Mr. Stazić, I have here, if you don't have one brochure called the Social Democratic Party of Croatia and the Croatian Social Liberal Party from the first to the last page of your pre-election programme for the 2000 elections, you cheated on the Croatian people, and if that hadn't happened, then the Croatian people would not have circled something else on November 23rd 2003. You have deceived six pages of a full Croatian people, a pre-election campaign. I will be to you tolerant, I will not be arrogant, for I do not know what pride is, blasphemy has been treated by those who sit right in the benches, honor of exceptions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12805	Thank you very much. It's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12806	But you will get this tonight, so you will see how many you are and what you have deceived the Croatian people. Direction, new direction. Ha-ha, there was a new heading east.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12807	Thank you very much. It's been a long time. And besides, you did not correct the incorrect allegations, but you gave a small lesson to Mr. Stazic. What? There's no reporting on the correcting of an incorrect quote. I asked you, you just nodded your head, but you didn't ask for anything. And since we've heard 8 or 9 corrections first, there's now 10 minutes to Mr. Joseph Leco's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12808	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. When did HDZ promise to cut taxes? Or VAT? What, am I gonna talk or not, Mr. Vice President?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12809	I ask all MPs, MPs, to allow our colleagues to fill their 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12810	And if they don't, what now, I'll talk. Will someone listen? She will, she's fine. ... Yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, when HDZ promised to cut taxes and VAT in the election campaign. So he made a political decision when he knew nothing about the economic facts he was calling for today. He didn't know anything. It neither referred to economic facts nor to the economic situation. And I can still understand that, even forgive, even support it. One political decision, intention, okay. But when did HDZ propose amending and supplementing the law and reducing the value added tax? When he was acting in power. For the first time, it was 2 months, or 3 months in power. And what does HDZ say in the proposal? The Croatian Democratic Community's club estimates that the law will be positively reflected, affecting the cost of living, have positive effects on the growth of the Croatian citizens' standard of living. Furthermore, the government's decision is to reduce the value added tax rate is the start of a full reform of the tax system, this is the first step which, together with other measures, will make the Croatian tax system fully compatible with the system of developed European countries. And you know when we pass that law? Five months after HDZ holds power. So please nice gentlemen, what's the credentials from that party? What kind of message is she sending? What kind of message does it send not only to the citizens here but also to the world? We played a little bit to not paraphrasing an old saying that applied to that party. We played a little bit of a game, that's what I say. We played a little bit, we offered a cut, and that justifies the economic reasons. We've been in power for 3 months or 5 months, and now after 5 months we say we don't know what is and we're responsible for the government, for the citizens, we're responsible for the state. Is that a serious suggestion? Is this a responsible relationship to the economy? What can we expect next year? That it was raining and there was no income? We won't, we won't cut taxes, we'll increase. Well, we can't do that to colleagues and colleagues, so we can't be irresponsible to the policy we promised citizens. The tax rate is really an important element of financial policy, and you've made a good point of saying that, you've made an excellent claim. But if you knew it was so important, it was so decisive and you didn't have all the elements to make that decision, so what political force was it to make and propose it to this House? There was no force, it was your will, your political decision. But what's the force and what's causing you to say we're not giving up on it, we're repealing the law. Nothing in fact has changed, nothing has happened to economic policy, and you're changing and you're changing it clearly, you're giving up the law. So what do you think we don't see you talking to the IMF? So do you think the citizens don't see it? So don't underestimate the citizens or the representatives. I understand that the Croatian economic situation and the financial situation not only this year but for a long time, I repeat the the thesis that the economic schedule of forces was carried out in a privatisation called privatisation in the Croatian way. By selling banks and burdening taxpayers through the recovery of these banks. Therefore, let us not lead the citizens astray again, let us not lead them astray. If we're not sure and you need to be sure because you're responsible for the behaviour of the government, don't propose laws. Don't propose laws. It ruins Parliament's reputation, it ruins the reputation of politics, it ruins the reputation of MPs. There was no need to rush because there was no reason to rush, if the law had remained in force, it would not have started to apply until next year. Therefore, even the situation does not have an economic impact on the application of the law in the following year. For this reason, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian citizens expect to start discussing in the Assembly how they will live, how their children will live in the period ahead of us, not for 4, not for one term but for a long, long, long, long, long, long and no matter who will be in power. So let's not even say that roads are a burden. The roads are investing in this country's life, this people, these citizens. If you don't believe that, ask yourself, and you'll get answers. As for VAT, it was warned here in this assembly that all 15 EU countries and all those now entering the European Union have differentiated rates, one or two tax rates, differentiated. We cannot refer to countries that have $20 or $25,000 per capita and say that this is an appropriate tax rate, a tax policy for the Croatian economic moment. The standard of citizens of the Republic of Croatia is based on 5 or 6 thousand dollars and not on 25 thousand dollars and the tax must have a social category, it must have a social category. And the promise was political. Not based on economic indicators or any economic analysis. That is why we really need to tell the citizens that the proposal came irresponsiblely and that the motion was even more irresponsiblely withdrawn, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12811	Thank you very much. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Marian Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12812	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Leco stated that which is the force to give up the VAT reduction Act. Well, Mr. Leko Force is exactly your way of managing the state finances and the government's debt because you were in debt before 90th and also after 2000 without doing anything concrete for the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12813	Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12814	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm correcting several incorrect allegations from Mr. Lek. One of them is that HDZ has led citizens astray and has made a political decision to cut VAT. Unfortunately, no, it is false and incorrect because, falsely and incorrectly, the former government has presented the commitments it has imposed on the state and citizens, and also Mr Leco said that this is now bringing down Parliament's reputation. No, Mr. Leko's reputation has been violated when without the knowledge and approval of the Croatian Parliament, the financial plan and responsibilities of the former government were increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12815	Darko Milinovic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12816	And who knows which way today the government hasn't given up VAT cuts under IMF pressure. Although you're 50% right, under pressure it is, under pressure it is, but under the financial pressure created by the past government and successfully hidden on the handover of the government. So pressurized from.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12817	A fellow Stazic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12818	Dear Mr. President, we have amended the Rules of Procedure recently and Article 209. We have introduced a supplement that the MP can correct the incorrect statement of the facts presented, so we added. Here it is constantly forgotten about this change and supplementation. This is where no facts are corrected, where the institution is simply correcting the incorrect quote continuously, continuously used to actually represent replicas. So let the MPs pick up the yellow plate and they'll be able to answer. But don't let us change our Rules of Procedure if we don't stick to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12819	I do not accept the objection because factual claims have been corrected through an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Marko Širac, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12820	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Mr Leko said this: The Croatian government has led the public and the public astray by passing the Law on the reduction of VAT. So today, we've been discussing this all day, and at the request of the SDP Representatives' Club, on the final accounting for the implementation of the State budget, and clearly and loudly today, it has been proven here that the deficit is 6.8 or 6.9%. Your claim is not true because if the Croatian government did not now propose to withdraw its former law, it would deceive the public and you have no fact on which you can prove what you have said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12821	Thank you very much. There's something written down for me. It's a lot of something. It's a replica. Okay. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12822	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. On January 28, 2004, our Prime Minister Ivo Sanader walked into Croatia's assembly. He was followed by Minister Shuker. It was a warm, January morning, but already there was a shadow in the House. We'll talk about that later. And then he announced to the Croatian people, Croatian citizens, the urbi et orbi: “The government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to take the decision to reduce the VAT rate and the proposal that we are taking care of with regard to the standard of Croatian citizens solve key problems, burning issues of modern Croatian society, and that is, at the first centre of the first question, the most important issue is the question of the growth of standards, the growth of purchasing power, the growth of employment. We want to invest in our own citizens. First of all, we made no promise but even more. We gave the guarantee, we gave the guarantee that we'd cut the VAT rate, and we're doing it right now, we're serious and responsible. VAT rates, reduction of VAT rates and fulfillment of that guarantee. And that's why we let go of the political bickering. In the name of the HDZ Club, it was said: the system of collection and supervision will thus only be ensured, only the team will ensure an increase in tax discipline and an increase in income from that tax as compensation for the drop in tax revenues due to the reduction in the tax rate. It was an excuse to settle that reduction in the budget. We need to act on the growth of the standard of living of Croatian citizens and a measure that will have positive macroeconomic effects, and then the minister said: “I am not going to step down as Minister of Finance from what I was saying here as a representative. This first step of tax reform this year will increase the control of the collection of State budget revenue and should create preconditions for reducing taxes that directly and indirectly affect labour prices. But if we talk exclusively about this law in this sense that this will produce a deficit in the State budget, then I think it's simply a misunderstanding of this problem. We consider that we still have all relevant indicators, the prime minister said, the minister spoke, and then another 2.4 spoke was just repeating that this was the fulfillment of the election promise, the first step of the electoral reform, and that it should not in any way give up at any cost. As if someone from HDZ, Mr. Jandrokovic suspected something could be said about it, something could happen, so that those promises could be fulfilled and said: I support the government that in no way, it goes to this risk and does not give up. But yes, it was only a few months ago. That's what they said in the morning, and now there's no Prime Minister at night. We've lost the minister here and there. So what are we ashamed of? I'm here, we notice here all of HDZ's entertainment is, a loud laugh like that, and I believe it's just a reflection of the nerves and not the mockery of the citizens: how we screwed you up this time too. In fact, now that we're discussing a whole other 180-degree proposal than the one we had in the sunny January morning led by the prime minister, now this VAT proposal that wants to be ordered? The message is very simple. There, we must give up this promise. We would do it, we would reduce the tax burden on citizens, speed up the development of the economy, make life easier for entrepreneurs, citizens, give pensioners, births, children, but the debts have grown so much, so much so that no one alive could have imagined it. And who did this to her? Well, those gentlemen, those who were in power until yesterday. They, servants of the IMF, those who would renew please also Serbian houses, equally along with Croatian houses, and send our generals directly and directly to The Hague at the same time. The traitors they will therefore be judged and the moment will come when they will be judged by the people, the Croatian people. And in the election, we said they were incompetent. And after the election, when we walked through Europe and the roads that had been paved by that incompetent government, we said to continue with their reforms. But gentlemen, they're just con men because they cheat. They cheated then. And such are the con men who cheat even now while they are in opposition, when they are in opposition. And not just that. There's something written in the avis again, so there's talk of lifting zero rates, so here's the tax relief, and that's going to... to be abolished, for they are not used by the poor. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because the poor are so poor, they can't use it, they can't use the benefits, they're used by the rich, and then we'll end it. It's sad, gentlemen, and it's really sad, if you were as hot in your actions as you were in your tongue, you'd have ended up. Or all of us together where the end would be. And the end. Gentlemen, it's just not the time to bluff. Bleefing is no longer an option. The government needs to know that it's been a long time since the honeymoon and that we need to get rid of the business. Justifications are no longer simple. Citizens and elect governments to solve problems, not such governments, which will abound with various and many justifications. A good-looking alibi. So please, deficit, that deficit. Our deficit is highways, railways, reconstruction, our social product work was 5%, and now in just six months, it's down. The government gave up spending on 60 lips, so Croatian railways fall directly into the state budget. That's the decision the HDZ made, and that's their current deficit and there's still no promised development. Where's the investment, where's the development? Of course, it's something you should want to be able to do, but you should know. There should be an economic strategy that needs to be an economic policy, and we still don't know it today. Which is what he is and what he is. The state has all the general definitions, which has no deficit almost no activity whatsoever, but you have managed to break that definition. Well, you don't have any activity and the deficit is already there. It is obvious that the HDZ government fears the risk of not being able to put them to good use. And we're probably criticizing it, but probably you do admit it, maybe you know yourself better than you and you know your options than we do on this side, even though we can establish something with a move. Therefore, they will strive in this way, that is, to multiply the leprosy. Employment and production problems will arise, obviously. This already shows that this is not a policy of one rational policy, that the moves are getting more nervous, that the reflection has already helped one frightened order. And why is that? Because the media is increasingly critical, according to the authorities, and many have already seen the government as unprofessional. And now there's a sieve in front of the objective problem of fulfilling the pre-election promises. On the one hand, they created strains of promise, a great gap between promise and opportunity and the ability to do all that. But one more thing, if you were to cut the VAT at all, you'd cut it. Now. As you were promised, and not with one delay, so now that delay is finally not delayed, but at all withdraws the possibility of that being discussed. And it says now the justification was we were in error we didn't know and so on. No, gentlemen, you were not mistaken. You were premeditated. You knew you weren't gonna do it. You just didn't know you'd have to find out. But the IMF came, and the IMF didn't ask you to. You can cut down on easy online consumption, and another way like we used to deal with the IMF and it's not easy but you don't need to know. They don't need to be noded right away when they just might say hello. And then a wording of the lack and deficit of the democratisation of society. I'll just mention associations asking for a release from VAT, on... donations, you promised them that, but you'll do it at the first session when it comes to arguing about VAT that they'll then associate a lie when you nod your head. So there are no deficits only in the lack of development of democratisation, the lack of not, or, the deficit is in the absence of ideas, visions and abilities. Gentlemen, you really need to do something about this quickly or change the government or something in the members of the government, or you need to change politics because seriously, in this way, you have to lead an idealess policy, take it slowly but surely Croatia in a serious economic and political crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12823	Okay. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected deputy president Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12824	And there's a series of incorrect allegations, and I'm only going to correct your first sentence when you say I quote, President Sanader and Minister Schucker proudly set foot in this assembly room. Correcting the incorrect allegations, Prime Minister Sanader and Minister Schuker will proudly set foot in this assembly for the next 4 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12825	Honorable representative Branimir Pasecki.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12826	.. [[speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12827	Come on, buddy. Come on, let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12828	Because she obviously didn't hear the reason that led to the rate of change in the VAT rate. Don't worry about our anxiety because we're really not nervous. I think we're having fun. We bluffed or you bluffed. Which you promised 17% of VAT and why then niset applied it immediately if you said so. Now that we're offended, but the way you step forward is an integral part of your ideology. And you said we should change something, I think it would be best if you were changed by the SDPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12829	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12830	Your Honor, Mr. President, this colleague insulted me. Yeah, this one. ...because it's him, so you don't have to hide when you're doing something, if you think you're doing something proud, then you're doing it so everyone can see you. Not secrets. Close and turn it off when you're so brave. So I'm sitting on my ears.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12831	You did not specify the Rules of Procedure, or you called for a guideline to do so in the guidebook. Those provisions. Dear Representative Pero Mlinarić corrects the incorrect allegations. I'm not deaf enough not to distinguish the word Rules of Procedure from the guide.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12832	Mr. President, Ms. Antičević Marinovic's esteemed representative, Marinovic, has said one untruth that the HDZ is being ruled by the neuroses. On the contrary, we've had the joy done so far, and these attacks on Prime Minister Dr Ivo Sanader and Minister Shuker mean they hit Wednesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12833	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12834	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I am correcting, there are a number of incorrect allegations in the speech of the respected colleague Antičević Marinović. But even inappropriate expressions to this Croatian Parliament, it is incorrect that the Croatian Democratic Community is I will say this to the Croatian citizens, because I really think it is an inappropriate term that the colleague used. Dear colleagues, your government is in charge of how Mr. Leko said the Croatian constructions on a net basis and spared us here. And that's 4.5 to 6.7. And also the deficit, which includes the unaccounted expenditure of the central state budget of extra-financial funds and agencies, the unpaid obligations of ministries, extra-financial funds and agencies, also without the approval of the Croatian Parliament's commitment to the Croatian highways for 1.12 billion kuna, the Ministry of Finance in 2003 also was charged on the domestic market for 760 million kuna, for public works of the 577 million kuna, and all this is not shown in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12835	Further correction, the esteemed representative of Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12836	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Ms Anticevic-Marinovic said that the HDZ press is more critical and that we are losing popularity which is not true because according to the last survey in the "Evening List" that the HDZ elections would now have 38% which would be an absolute majority according to Dont. Therefore, anxiety does not dwell in our ranks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12837	Dear representative Ruža Lelic is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12838	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Anticevic-Marinovic said this government is afraid of risks, and that is not true. This government is only acting wisely and responsibly. She also said that the government is indivisible as the public change shows, and the colleague said well that according to a public change survey HDZ would now receive 38% of voters' votes, so the claim does not stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12839	Further correction, respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12840	Dear Mr. President, Ms. Anticevic's esteemed representative said she has no deficits, she has only a deficit of ideas. It's just not true. The deficit is clearly shown in these documents and amounts to $12.89 billion, that's one thing. Secondly, the reduction or increase of VAT today, tomorrow or six months from now, is the legitimate right of every government, but the excess of the deficit that has been accepted in this House is neither legitimate nor acceptable. It is unfortunately something quite different that deserves the most serious sanctioning because of the credibility of the Croatian political scene, because of the credibility of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12841	Replica, Honorable Vice-President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12842	Mr. President, I have answered the line so that the representative may possibly be able to answer her first question. As long as you're ex-minister, you've left unsettled obligations in your ministry, can you tell us that by any chance, or another time, it's not mandatory now. As long as you've left unsettled commitments, that's one thing. Secondly, 4.5% is the claim in the International Monetary Fund that the debt of the state, it is at the end of 6.8 and the figures are inexorable, there is no hairstyle, there are figures. It's not abstraction. Only the mandate began in the HDZ government, don't be nervous and declare this government in words like that. There you have had a full four, almost four years, and you succeeded with $9.5 billion in debt to get to the state's $24 billion in debt, while still banning invoices on highways carried out in 2003 so that it wouldn't happen to get into that year, so the threats were to the performers so that it wouldn't be invoiced in 2003, and the minister at the time said you won't start Croatia because we will spend in advance so that you can't start anything. That's what you've been doing and that's what's important in this. And the fact that you're changing the law, so you've managed to even... Well, nothing. [[You don't understand, the speaker is away from the microphone.]] This changes today, tomorrow etc., you will not continue, but will change for the better, and we will fulfill our promises and guarantees that we have given to the Croatian people, so be sure of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12843	Replicate-respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12844	Here's how I'm going to answer to an esteemed representative. The ministry left only one part of the compensation to the county authorities of the state administration for the elections carried out. That's all. ... That's pay, sir. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And we were found in that same ministry by Mr. Rifkin who so explicitly defended our suspects and all of Croatia, it came directly to us to this ministry, a lawsuit for an unwarranted distance from work, and with those 18% interest rates that came to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12845	Another replica, the esteemed representative of Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12846	When Mrs. Advocacy had her presentation, she spoke about the deficit of ideas and honored this government that there was no program, that there was no strategy like they had. He says our deficit is highways, railways, rebuilding how the former government has invested in development. I want to say that it's not a debt problem or a highway, it's not a problem either, it's also not a problem in the incentive housing programme, and now let this government get the idea that they're going to pay back their debts, that they're going to sell their apartments, and that this huge development is going to adapt to the public that they can live normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12847	Next replica, respected representative Ivica Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12848	Mr. President, I was really in a dilemma tonight on several occasions, whether my colleagues and colleagues from the SDP believe everything they say. My answer to this last thing Mrs. Anticevic said was actually a question to her. Are you really like a former minister who knows exactly how this government worked and knowing all these accounts and sub-accounts and all the debts that you believe in what you're doing right now, what you're saying? You're telling me, among other things, that this government is like this and like this. This government is now trying to put order into public finances and this should be commendable for both this and every other government, for the future. My response to the change of attitudes of this government and the display of this as inconclusiveness is, in fact, in its own way and the picture that I can now convey, or convince, and from our daily life is related to our marriage. The opposition and position are in a sort of marriage relationship, but even in a marriage if one of the spouses denies it, shut up one of the important things. Then the Catholic Church, which is very conservatively freed from obligation. So, you've been deceived, silenced, denied, and that's why we've changed our attitude, but we haven't given up, we haven't given up now, this government hasn't given up its pre-election promises. That's mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12849	Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12850	Mr. Representative. You know what's most important here? To whom the citizens trust. They said, but they'll tell. Yeah. And as for the introduction of order, so you're already breaking the budget, you're bringing people into the ministry even past the contests. [[/Intruder: What are these statements, for God's sake?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12851	Okay. When it's temperamentally spoken, it's spoken. Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12852	First of all, I'd like to welcome the people who are looking at us, maybe somewhere in Australia or the Middle East, given that it's the only place we're seeing tonight's debate. Since they're not interested in VAT, I don't know, most likely no one's looking, but here. My regards to this once remote world that enjoys our debate on VAT and the future and fate of VAT in the Republic of Croatia. We've only been discussing VAT for two months on three occasions. On two occasions we heard the HDZ fulfill its pre-election promise and as Prime Minister Sanader said last time here in the hall, the difference between this government and the former one is that we will meet our guarantees. Today's bail falls into the water. There's nothing from the guarantee today. Today the guarantee is withdrawn. Not just about the VAT, but maybe even worse around the fishing ecological zone. So one guarantee at a time falls into the water. Bad for one prime minister and for his image because the prime minister shouldn't behave according to the system "the rabbit said, rabbit regreement". Today, it is said that the main reason the HDZ does not fulfil its guarantee of a reduction in the former government's VAT debt. And we inherited, gentlemen, debts from the previous government and we tried to say that we have major problems, but you don't care about the citizens. Citizens at first hear that, but after a while, they don't care what kind of problems you have in the government. That's why they chose you, that's why it is the ministers and you citizens only expect as they expected the former government to solve their problems. What kind of trouble you have, they really don't care. We can set things up like this. You have made a decision in recent changes to apply VAT only since the beginning of 2005. If all these burdens are in the state budget you're talking about, then they're in this year. She's in this year. Therefore, they were gone in the second year and the VAT was easy to apply in early 2005, but there was no VAT in 2005 either. Today, there has been a lot of talk here, and that is why today's decision is made by the urgent procedure of reducing VAT and that is, giving up VAT cuts. Not because of financial difficulties, because of what you were talking about, Mr. Minister, when there was a second reading of the VAT law. Because long before you brought the budget somewhere in January this year you made it very clear that there are 12 billion, 12 and a half billion unpaid bills. So, Mr. Minister, you were already aware of everything that must be paid out of the budget this year. So it's interesting that you didn't say at the second VAT reading then, there's no condition for that, and we're giving up the VAT. But you brought it in, and it's quite certain that after the IMF mission arrived, which has a little bit of a cry for excessive consumption, that after that pressure, you decided to give up the VAT rate reduction. Mr. Sanader was here a month ago talking like this. We want to cut the VAT from 22 to 20%. We are aware of the risks and the questions that will be raised and put before us, and we have thought about how to make up for them, and there are 3 billion in the budget and there are ways to make up for them. First of all, says Mr. Sanader, I think it can be compensated by increasing the control of the exploitation of natural resources, water, forests, quarrys, mineral raw materials, that it can be compensated by strengthening control and public companies for their more rational and successful business as well as by reducing the grey economy as a whole. Well, is it possible, Mr. Schucker, that Mr. Sanader as your prime minister knows how to solve the problem, how to make up for 3 billion in the budget without you being able to implement it? I can only conclude from all of this, that you are a minister who is unable to find a solution, and here's the prime minister who gave you how to fill and fill a budget of 3 billion kuna. I know it's easier said than done, but here it is somewhere your way of acting from the very beginning as you came to power. I'd also remind you, Mr. Schucker, that you here said not a full month ago that it's not an emergency that the reduction in VAT rates reduces revenues in the state budget. The revenues will remain higher than they are on the current level, only to be collected in a different way. Those were your words here. Now I'd like to say another very short thing, which is why I think you're in a situation today that you can't keep your pre-election promise to cut VAT. Most of all, not only did you make certain promises in the election campaign, but because for the next few months, when you took over the government, you threw out what promises and every one of them in your portfolio. In fact, Croatian citizens were able to watch for weeks and months of smiling ministers and ministers who received in their offices in a very large number of individual associations of individual groups, representatives of certain institutions, institutions. Well, now I'm going to get to what you're showing me about non-verbal communication. So, and after that, we were able to watch on the news the ministers and ministers who hold press conferences with those visitors and promise to solve all their problems that have not been solved so far. In the campaign itself, journalists are, or rather, when you came to power, when the campaign went through, journalists calculated something like that in a rough way that all the promises you made were difficult somewhere between 4 and 5 billion kunas. Therefore, every promise costs, we have all warned that every promise costs and I think that what you cannot fulfill today is part of your guarantee to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia just because you made promises that you knew couldn't be carried out. You, too, Mr. Schucker, were sitting in this House, you had a budget in your hands, you were sitting in some institutions where you could get information that we couldn't get some other MPs because we don't even understand ourselves on the subject of the economy, but so you had access to some information as well as an agent who was in some bodies and you knew that the budget was what we would say was overworked. That there's no room for a billion, not two, let alone four or five billion new promises that you made. Here, I think that's the problem. And I will finally say, I think that Mr. Schucker, today with this decision to withdraw the VAT reduction decision, you pay the price of ministers who are more important to their own public rating than whether the Croatian budget will be able to finance all their promises and wishes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12853	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Marijan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12854	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Opacic said we can't keep our promise to cut VAT. The Croatian Democratic Community will fulfill its promise of reducing VAT and tax presses when conditions are met and when we resolve this budget deficit of 6.7% to an acceptable level and only then will we be able to be fair to our citizens without any burdens or problems to reduce VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12855	And a replica of the esteemed representative of Jure Bithunjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12856	Well, my replica would also refer to the presentation of colleagues, Opačić, as well as other MPs, i.e. MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12857	You can't do anything else, but you can do it to your colleague. To her exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12858	Here's a quick word. I'll say next. It would have been kind of correct and fair if Mrs. Opacic had said the following, if it hadn't been for the financial, state finances for the past year. Mostly over the past year, on one side. And on the other hand that it's a weak work, and I'd say one part of the irresponsible former government puts the current government and us here to discuss this issue. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12859	Replica response, respected representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12860	So the answer to the replica is that it really can't stand with any of your arguments that we've been running messy finances. We have been here for several days not only here in this Chamber, but also in the Croatian public trying to explain, which is why this huge deficit of our budget is showing up, primarily because you're looking for an alibi for these promises you made, and you knew you wouldn't be able to finance them, because neither the economy nor the budget can stand. And as for what you said, what we left in the Republic of Croatia. Well, you know, sir, behind the government, there's a lot left of what's visible and tangible and what's good for Croatian citizens, and we'll see what stays behind your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12861	Let's move on. Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12862	Mr. President, Ministers with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. This bill obviously entertains members of the HDZ Club well. And he actually impressed me. I was impressed by the government's speed and efficiency in this case. I would be even more impressed if it were so effective and fast in proposing and other necessary legislative proposals. Or that it may have changed in this law what is, for example, a colleague, or minister in this case, Minister Schuker criticized, so I'm going to say something later. So we've achieved a record in something that a law that's been a little more than a month since it's been accepted, we're changing it, and it's still going to take about seven months to apply in practice. I would also like to have the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia here with us tonight, Mr Sanader, to explain to us how much his guarantee and his credibility and of course the credibility of this government is worth. Because that's what he talked about twice when he passed this law. And now with a few sentences, I would actually refer to this bill myself. How this bill of law is explained and the urgency to pass this law. It's very short and it only explains the only reason for the deficit. Therefore, this was also the reason why we suggested that we first discuss the budget calculation for the past year, to agree on what the deficit is and what it may be, to have an impact on the adoption of this law that we are discussing tonight. Finally, there was so much controversy in the final statement, Minister Shuker said, the deficit is 5.1%, you left the 3.5 billion debts you recognise. Now it's bid again on some other figures, some other debts, it's even spoken of as total debt. So now that we're talking about total foreign debt, that's how I would paint it. This graph is calculated foreign debt in euro because it is a more stable currency. So in 2000, we found commitments that of course could not be settled from the budget, because if they could settle, if there were funds, the HDZ government would have done the same. Of course, the good part was to be covered both by loans or by the issue of government bonds. Here you see, this was a government debt that covered uncovered liabilities and debts at the end of '99. So we found this kind of government debt. This is a government debt in three years of coalition government, you see this column red, I see you're still having a good time, and I'm having fun too. The biggest impact on debt increases has been on banks, as they have begun to lend to the economy, entrepreneurs and citizens. Citizens were given the opportunity to come to the bank, raise credit, and buy the goods they needed, for which they didn't have enough cash to pay all of a sudden. Mr. Shuker, here I am constantly rebelling, Mr. Shucker said, so you have applied a zero rate for tourism, for organized arrival, it is nothing, it has no effect whatsoever, but it creates certain problems. Why didn't you propose to abolish this zero rate for foreign tourism when we passed the VAT Act? That would be something to fix the situation in that. You said that there would be no problem, that the government estimated that the reduction of income based on these two index points of VAT would be charged better with the collection of total taxes, that this was also the beginning of tax reform, I was skeptical then, I had not heard that tax reform is starting with VAT, because to change the tax policy should have an economic programme, determine the economic objectives, and then we can go to economic and tax reform, and in reforming those taxes that would have an impact on the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, which is necessary for us. We won't have economic growth, we won't have any exports, if our economy remains uncompetitive. Again and now the question is being asked, and you promised 17% of VAT, you didn't do it throughout your entire term, I was talking about it in the first and second reading, but I would say today, it would be fairer to say we were wrong than to justify in this way why you have to give up one legislative proposal. It was also talked about investment in citizens, today it's no longer said, today it's all the fault of the deficit, and it's all the debt. And in an emergency procedure similar to that, again I say it would be fairer to say we've negotiated with the IMF, he's opposed to reducing VAT. And what may be the most intriguing and definitive need that the government will not make a pre-election promise. That the VAT reduction will be nothing because it is said here that it will not be reduced if 22% of the value added tax is not allowed to extend the application of a zero-rate exemption to the value added tax because Mr Minister said that there is a European Union, our entry into the European Union means that we will have to give up some tax exemptions and tax exemptions and, of course, zero rates and introduce a single VAT rate. It is another interesting thing that the IMF does not pay any attention to the Croatian budget's revenue side, with no word it has eliminated anything but a reduction in VAT rate, and that is understandable, it is the highest part of the budget and a reduction of VAT would reduce the revenue side and there would be a risk of repaying debts, very interesting, it seems to me that my colleague Schuker recognises this text. From the above, I believe it is evident that the Government does not have its own clear programme, that it is unable to implement certain measures and that they need a tutor from above to force them to do certain things. This is what the HDZ representative of my colleague Shuker said at the time, and I'd be happy to have Minister Schuker speak as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12863	Thank you very much. We have some replicas. First respected representative of Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12864	Well, Mr. President, I was encouraged in a replica by Mrs. Zgrebec's graphics which you were constantly trying to decrypt and he was speaking to God about the state debt of the Republic of Croatia in 2000 and 2004, respectively. I will only remind myself and I said this earlier in the previous replica, Croatia took over the Racan government period in the term of 2000/2004. a day's borrowing abroad of 80 million kunas. I repeat 80 million kunas. So, no one will forgive us for that money, these money will be coming back for decades, it will be coming back much longer than the duration of the highway and, by the way, those highways that the HDZ started and will complete HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12865	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12866	Well, I wasn't showing some sort of god-awl graphics, I was showing a really real graph showing the real responsibility of Croatia. It's the National Bank's data, and if not only was the government in debt, I was saying banks were in debt, other entities were in debt both on domestic and foreign markets. There will be no problem with the repayment of most of the debt because the majority of the debt will be paid back by the citizens of taxpayers who are very neat in paying their liabilities and will pay the citizens who are in debt, credited in banks because the banks took such insurance that no citizen will be able to pay off his debt if he can't pay off his debt, property will be sold to him if he doesn't have enough property, it will pay their guarantees.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12867	Replica, Honorable Vice-President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12868	2% of VAT is exactly 3.5 billion to what you've admitted today that you're in charge. Since you just confessed and it'll still show how much that's at the end of the ballad. Because you led the Croatian public astray because you knew about the breakthrough. And we didn't know that because if we knew maybe you'd be more careful to approach some of our decisions so you... Surprised and unfortunately I expect to continue to be surprised by the discovery of new figures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe the Prime Minister didn't even know what the big builder and minister of big, big health, big health minister Vlahusic was doing to him. Maybe the Prime Minister didn't know it, but that's the problem of the coalition government and not the ability to control some naughty ministers who then boasted about how they were building. And this morning I said from those who were building one good part of it it was taken by his wife and children. You know. So we'll see how much it ended up in someone else's pockets. Still. What is still waiting for us is that we will determine exactly what are the dubiosis, what are the duties, and be sure that they will be reported precisely by the figures. and at the beginning of these duties, the Croatian public. [[Intruder: Please, birds...]] So we did not lead the Croatian public astray because we believed that we had inherited normal finances and transparent finances of the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12869	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12870	I calculated that if VAT cuts were to be compensated by 2 index points then tax revenues should be increased at the current level of the 2003 budget by 6%. Well done if Mr. Shuker does, we'll be very grateful to him. Then they'll get 3 billion kuna, bigger revenue in the budget. There won't be any problems with funding some other commitments. What is not about the recognition or recognition of certain debts, we finally agreed and Mr. Shuker said this figure, which is also said by fellow Linic on behalf of the Club of Ours. However, much of it relates to investments, it is a one-time payment, it is not an obligation for next year. Or maybe it's a commitment for as long as the loan takes. More dangerous are those decisions where certain rights are created which are continuous and for which there are no real sources. They can then compromise the exercise of such rights permanently. You can if you don't have real resources you can finance them for a year two in an increased amount and beyond that you can't even finance at minimum amounts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12871	Thank you. Another replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12872	Mr. President, it was a correction to an incorrect assumption. My colleague Zgrebec said in her presentation that we were having fun. And the previous, and this item of the agenda doesn't allow us to have any fun, but we must be responsible for accessing and analysing what it was, but we must also approach it responsibly and for what it will be. So I'm correcting an incorrect quote. This is a set of people sitting around who aren't having fun but responsible access to this job that she chose to do. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec. It wasn't a replica? ... Okay. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12873	What's my right?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12874	Replica is a respected representative of Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12875	Mr. President, here's what I wanted to say to my colleague at last, all the time we're talking about promises like this, that we're to blame for this, for that. So I can say that we may have been guilty because we believed that their party or the lady's party had finally transformed into a party in which, behind their words about the state of debt and accounts. Next, we're talking about pre-election promises. Well, we don't have to be afraid of pre-election promises. If voters believed all pre-election promises, then representatives of HNS and SDP would sit here, and probably not because they know what the situation is, voters in the city of Zagreb then gave up. Keep going. We're talking about, and we talked about it, you said, "I'm sorry, you've been saying all along that reducing the VAT to the population won't bring us anything." You've shown it very vividly on the paper, so I guess I'm also on milk and I don't know what, all in a row and what we're afraid of, which is when people won't even feel it. We could've even raised 2% of people wouldn't have noticed. You said only merchants benefit from it. Well, now's the time for traders to work during the day, now I can watch this transmission. Still. I just wanted to say that maybe these black thoughts and hunches of yours will only have one consequence, that we won't get any investors from South America.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12876	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12877	Well, I didn't have any black hunches, either, no announcements or anything. I was quoting a debate between my fellow Shucker here in the Parliament when we discussed the IMF's memorandum and I agree with that. And I'd like him to agree with that today. And as far as VAT is concerned, I never said, nor did anyone from the SDP Club say no one would get anything. VAT is neutral for the economy. He will not bring any economic effects, but VAT is very unfair for those who pay him because at the same rate he is paid by both rich and poor, and those who buy the most essential foods and those who buy luxury items. That's the problem. We could have changed if we had a better economic situation. I'm not gonna say that's all HDZ's fault. It's the war. It's the transition. Many countries had major problems in the transition from social or state-owned to private property. Why would Croatia be out of it? I won't say it's only one government or, or one party. You could never hear that from me. But the problems are that we have to be realistic, that we have to be honest then. If we can't fulfill something then let's say we can't fulfill it. We said the two most important promises we couldn't keep the way we thought and how the citizens expected us to. It was a VAT reduction because we rated that it wouldn't be good at the moment, the moment we were at. We don't think that's good now. And we said: we haven't done enough in, in sanctioning irregularities in conversion and privatisation. We said it openly and honestly, regardless of the reasons that stopped us from doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12878	Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12879	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Listening to this morning or today's repeated finance minister explain this bill to raise VAT and an explanation that makes it seem I remembered an anecdote that may not be quite unknown because it is often mentioned. Namely, when the director of one company who had a problem went to his successor, he left three envelopes. And I told him when you find yourself in a crisis they open the envelope one by one as they're marked by 1, 2 and 3. After a while, the company came into trouble and the director opened the first envelope, and the envelope says it reorganises. How God does not know how to help because the director or that manager did not know how to do the job the problems remained. Open him and the other envelope. And in the second envelope, it says, "For all that is wrong and what you cannot do, blame me, your predecessor." But that wasn't enough to solve problems either. And finally he opens, he opens the third envelope, and the third envelope says, "Write letters." Gentlemen, I'm a little freaked out by the speed that opened the first two envelopes in your government. We've actually started with very unsavoury, very unsuspecting, extremely dangerous and extremely expensive reorganization of the state administration and ministries and made, and we've introduced real chaos and disorder into a system that's tried so hard to establish over the past four years. In the vault where I was, the situation is chaotic, but it's not the subject of this debate. You did it, I mention it because in this context because it was a shortcut, because it was without systematic thinking what do you really want? You responded unfortunately to the sirens calling it easy promises and what people wanted to hear because it was said that we had a great government, too many ministers, and you did it. And a lot of other things in pre-election promises went according to that principle. It's kind of jumbled, it's kind of like what could be heard that the citizens would like to hear. And the result is exactly where you are today and where I don't envy you. I don't envy Minister Shuker either. I don't think it's easy. It's not easy to run the country. It's not a variation, it's not a circus or illusions can solve the serious and difficult problems that all societies face, and this, this, this, our transition post-traumatic and so on. And indeed, gentlemen, if we want to be credible in politics, even though we won't undo something that's a very important thing to talk about, it's about so-called. Social capital. And social capital speaks of the level of trust that one country's citizens have in institutions that are more expensive. And not only institutions, but if they want NGOs, within themselves in their neighbours, and capital social capital in Croatia a pity at an extremely low level. Unfortunately, when I say Croatians, I think Croatian citizens no longer trust each other or themselves. The tape of optimism that appeared upon the arrival of the new government, which no doubt had been adventurous and lasted here for several months, is unfortunately melting. It's dangerous to play with a promise. It's dangerous to sow illusions, which in the long run puts the whole nation in trouble. And I, like my colleague Zgrebec, think it would be a lot fairer to say the people of the citizens promised we'd run into each other, we can't do that, because that can't be done. Because at this point, we're not capable of making up reasons. Let us not underestimate the reasons for underestimating the citizens of this country and think that they will believe what you do not believe. I don't underestimate you, but I understand that it is clear to you that no deficit from God my balance of payments or budget is the reason for the delay in the application of this or the increase in VAT now rather than that of the IMF. Because we do not have a Croatian government capable of self-ruleing state policy or state finances. We don't have it. I'm sorry. But let's just say that that's the way it is. Let's not make up reasons. And since we're talking about that so-called. I must remind you that we have left the country in a decent state. In a decent state, they left one of the most honest Croatians we got 99. Isolated Croatia isolated Croatia, we were only in the Council of Europe jacket you remember. We have indeed been under silent sanctions, and we have achieved in those four years a giant leap and become a country that is acceptable to both Europe and the world. Speaking of these huge debts and where and how and who is in Croatia and how they are in debt. Gentlemen, let me just tell you the share of the debt of the state in the total foreign debt on 99. was 42.2 per cent and 2003. 38.3. The foreign exchange reserves were 99. $3.7 billion, and in August last year, $6.62 billion. The coverage of the foreign debt to foreign exchange reserves was 99. 72.5 percent, and last year it was 95.65 percent. You ask where and how they were and why the people of Croatia were in charge. So in four years, according to population supply data, we have a lasting good share of the population that have another television set has gone up by 41.7%, personal computer 42.42%, machine az dishwasher 27.% microwave oven 62% more than in 2000. We inherited a economy that had a loss of.3 billion and left for the first time a positive business of 3 billion and 300 million kuna. They want us to get more of that data. We left a decent state of organized finance and God forbid you leave Croatia to us tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12880	I thank the honourable representative. For correcting the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12881	Mr. Vice President, fellow MP Vidovic said that many words on paper and thrown into what voters want to hear. In fact, the responsible people are true that responsible people have responsibly agreed on the programme of the Croatian Democratic Community for which we will be willing to account after 4 years. And you don't need to be afraid of that quick opening of two envelopes that scared us more than that of that letter of yours since 16 December 2003, Mr. Horst Koler, Director General of the International Monetary Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12882	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation by the esteemed constable Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12883	It's not true, my colleague, that we've run into each other that we're unable to keep our promises. It is true that we are forced to give up our promises because you left the deficit in the budget. And it's not true that it's the result. It's the cause.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12884	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Marijan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12885	I thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Vidovic has said that HDFor her authorities she has introduced chaos and chaos. And that they had left the land in an acclimated state. The general policy of the HDZ from the 1990s until January 3rd when you came to power, despite the war, the casualties, was in debt to this country for $9 billion. And while you're in peacetime condition when the state could develop at the expense of your $14 billion debt. 15 almost. You didn't do anything. I think that every word is too high.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12886	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed Vice President of House Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12887	Mr. Vidovic found that we are making up reasons why the VAT law is now changing. No, I don't. We have discovered from day to day in the form of your debts these reasons. So we discover because every day we discover new debts. Oh, God, that's over. that discovery. This was not you who inherited the abandoned Croatia, but you inherited a free Croatia with only 9 and a half billion debts total of which the former Yugoslavia was subject to half of it. So one four and a half, five billion to war and all that. And you've honored us as you say with the arranged finances and left us with a set of finances, about the total debt of $24 billion, and then since those figures are undeniable, then that's the answer to how you left us the financial official finances hell six months ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12888	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Ivana Sučec Trakoštanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12889	I am correcting the incorrect assumption that they inherited Croatia abandoned, and that they left it... Croatia is nobody's legacy, they were only assigned to manage Croatia for the benefit of Croatian people, but they left me to say on December 23rd a very decent unemployed country, apathetic, ineffective government and a very rudely in charge of the country. [[You don't understand.]] So it's not true, Mr. Vidic, what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12890	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12891	I have two incorrect allegations from Mr. Vidovic. He said, number one, we don't have an independent government capable of running the state. This is simply not true, because all the polls and domestic ones, and Croatia's rating is growing not only in the environment but in Europe and in the world at all. And secondly, we left a financial state. Unfortunately, that's absolutely not true, because if it were true, we wouldn't be here tonight or discussing this agenda point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12892	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12893	The greater inaccuracies my predecessors corrected, I'd just like to remind you of one. A colleague said that the situation in his former ministry, which is attached to the Ministry of Health, is chaotic, and I would say that we have just inherited a chaotic state, and for example, he would have stated that 40 million kunas have been spent in the social sphere in support of various associations that were about 300 at the same time, without a single kindergarten being created.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12894	Thank you. Minister Ivan Shuker called to say the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12895	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I think it's time we re-detect some truths that have long been established. Unfortunately, tonight we started here to claim that the debt that was in 2000 was no longer that and that the debt in 2004 was different. But before that, I would say to my colleague Vidovic that you had a surplus on this arrangement at your ministry in the 2003 budget in the amount of pensions in the country and abroad, and taxes, taxes and weights of 949.7 million kuna. There's been so much overrun at your ministry's position. Why didn't you pay those 760 million pensions through HZMO, but through your ministry? Who gave you that right? But it's probably your understanding of the value of finance. Because if anything brings this Croatian Parliament, then it must be respected. If you thought it was better to pay off through your ministry, you could have suggested it to the Parliament, although any idea is good, but officially in the documents you have an overrun slightly less than a billion. And now for that debt. The debt, the public debt of the Republic of Croatia at the end of 99 was 46 billion and now to clear those debts etc. And as much as it took to cover those debts, it was nine billion and 200 million kuna. 4 billion and 100 were outstanding amounts for various works carried out in reconstruction, road construction, etc. 2 and a half billion were outstanding DAB liabilities, and these were issued bonds due in 2005, pardon year and billion and 700 were covered by HZZO obligations and they are charged at the end of 2004. Now in early 2004, the public debt is over 100 million kuna. So if we add those 46 million 9 and a half, that's 55, but you've increased the public debt of the Republic of Croatia by 50 million kuna. For 50 million kuna it is the public debt of the Republic of Croatia. If we talk about the external debt of the Republic of Croatia, it was 9.5 billion, with that of the 9.5 billion 4 billion and 900 waste as an inheritance from the former Yugoslavia of the Paris and London Club. So from 9.5 billion you came to 24 billion 23 and 700. Let's say three billion dollars is going to waste on exchange rates, say you came to 21. 12 billion dollars. However, that employment in Croatia is below 15% at this point, that the external trade deficit is slightly different then it could be talked about this debt in another way. But it's amazing how easy this government is being treated incompetent, ignorant, etc. And it's very interesting that no one here today told you that no such epithet was ever sent to you. Not at all. From me? I told you that? I've listened to it here today as much as you want. However, it's also very interesting when the proposed VAT reduction is then you said not to cut, now that a delay is proposed not to delay again. However, there is one other thing, you claimed in 99 that you would reduce the value added tax rate by 5% points because it is stolen from Croatia 8 billion kuna a year, which is sent to Bosnia and Herzegovina several billion kunas and you will return it all to Croatia and reduce VAT. Where's your stolen money? Did you find it? And those genius economic programs, I wanted... I refrain from talking about it, and Victor Lenac. [[You don't understand.]] Half a billion kuna costs taxpayers. One totally missed project. 600-700 people are out of work. A few thousand cooperatives today don't know where they're going and what they're going to do, they're going to have to settle their obligations. He doesn't know what to do with the employees. That's a few thousand. It's your government project, your party's project. It's not a project. It's not a project. It's not a project. And that's a successful economic policy? It probably is. Who normally goes to change the total activity of a company that has been very successful in its activity, destroys the existing shipyard that works excellently and has actually worked and gone half a billion from the state budget and nothing to anyone and then finds gentlemen and down they dictate to the Ministry of Finance and the Croatian Government what tomorrow with "Vicor Lenco" should be. You should sell it to the ones who pulled the money to buy it for the bogeyman. Who gave the maritime good to HBOR under the mortgage? Is that what HDZ gave you? Who wrote down Victor Lenac for maritime good? We want to open these questions and thousands of other questions. Everyone has their mistakes, everyone has their failures. All those who make mistakes and miss, so let's look at problems like that. But, gentlemen, when we talk about VAT, when we talk about just call Mr.... I can't wait. You forgot to say you got two jack pots when you came to power. The first was the positive status that you had with the international community and the second jack pot that will never happen to any government in the history of Croatia again, which is the abolition of the mark and the obligation to convert the mark into the euro. When Croatians brought several billion euros to business banks and you couldn't use it, these are two jack pots that don't open up to any government. But this is why you're giving us lessons today. I said 2 billion kunas you spent past what was approved in your budget. You spent money you didn't want to record in the budget, you didn't want to record it in the budget to make up macroeconomic indicators, because if you had recorded it in the budget, then the deficit would have been far different, but these spent money certainly had an effect on positive macroeconomic indicators amongst other things and on GDP growth because 3 billion kunas when you invested in something, then you had to see it, but because of the deficit on the one hand, you didn't record it in the budget, but at the same time you felt the effects of these invested money quite on macroeconomic indicators. Why haven't the barriers been removed so foreign investors can come to Croatia? Why didn't you take at least one step into privatisation? At least today would be easier for us. These are the problems you're talking about. But gentlemen, it's been running around here all day about how incompetent this government is, how ministers don't know, etc., but incompetence and ignorance can be seen on paper. Once again, I say, it is saddens me if some people at one meeting claim that something is not so and then come to the assembly and claim that it is not so. You agreed with HABOR that it had to be entered into the budget. A billion and 600 million. That's what you said in public. You even said you didn't know about it. And you can't say, so far only 200 million and 600 million have been paid off, and you can't say that these billions and 300 left that won't affect the deficit for the next four years. They'll have to because you've made an obligation to book it on the expense side. And if you wrote down the obligation the moment the cost took place, the moment that money was spent had a real effect, then you could talk about it. Because when we talk about finance and something, money invested has an effect in most cases in some period of time when it's invested. It doesn't affect after 3 or 4 years. At least not in these investments that took place in Croatia. But I'm saying, it's easy to talk and I'm glad I heard tonight that we started making up what data, how long it was in '99 and how long it was in 2004. Both of you doubled, your unemployment remained the same, your imports increased by 6 billion in Croatia, and your exports barely by a billion and a half. Industrial production is in the same situation, economic growth was based exclusively on external debt and consumption, and that part of industrial growth that was in Croatia was again based on infrastructure investments from the state budget. Very little economic growth is based on what should be a real recovery generator and a real generator that would show certain economic guidelines. Because according to you, if you say these are Croatian National Bank data, then according to the 2002 Croatian National Bank, of 5.2% of economic growth, the 4% points have been spent. And this consumption is 80% generated by external duties and the purchase of goods originating outside Croatia's borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12896	I thank Minister Shuker. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12897	Thank you very much. And the esteemed Minister Schuker incorrectly claimed that the SDP Club was against VAT returns, i.e. to reduce VAT. This was not claimed when the law was passed but we claimed that there were no financial or economic reasons or the possibility of reducing the VAT rate from 22% to 20%, if it already seems to be so tax in social function. A second incorrect quote. The incompetence of the government is not evaluated through papers but whether it opens new jobs or does not open them. Whether he's hiring citizens or not. So we don't say anything from paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12898	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12899	And another one, and another inaccuracy, please. It is not correct to speak selectively about the external debt of Croatia, not to mention that it was built, built, invested and developed Croatia and we can observe it through 10 countries in transition. Croatia has improved its position in 4 years as regards external debt compared to other transition countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12900	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12901	I will also try to correct even though Minister Shuker repeated, he likes to speak inaccuracy, but two incorrect allegations. First, the mention of "Viktor Lenca" in this context is indeed deplaced because "Viktor Lenac" is a private, private company and its collapse is the business of its owners. The thing about his owners, and the responsibility of the government was that she was only trying to save jobs. And when it comes to state-owned enterprises, let me tell you again. We inherited it in these public enterprises, 20 public companies, 980 million kuna, and that's the company we left you with a profit of 2 and a half billion kuna. Only INA billion and 800... Where's your money? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's what you should know, not ask a representative. That money was left to you. And also, when you ask what and what the money was spent on, we inherited 28 entrepreneurial zones, we left 188. Well, it's not like it's all squandered like Mr. Shucker incorrectly claims.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12902	Thank you. Time's up. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12903	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's not true what Mr. Minister said that the first jackpot that won the coalition power was just a positive rating. We didn't get any jackpot, but we achieved this positive rating by leading the pro-European policy, but also by protecting national interests, and it got us out of isolation that the original HDZ government had us in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12904	Thank you. Please, please, please. [[I didn't say community.]] Thank you. We've only finished correcting incorrect allegations. We've got another 20 reported. The word has a distinguished representative of the Korenika. 19. The word has been given by the esteemed vice president of Dom Mato Arlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12905	My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. No matter what we think or say, I have to say that this bill that we've got and worries me and... A little surprised and saddened, and I'll tell you why. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First, there are no 2 months as it was adopted, and at the time when it was adopted there was a parallel bill which offered instead of a rate reduction and of course an extension of the products and services at which the zero rate applies, with the fact that the aid law needed by sectoral, therefore, by activity bits per region actually being supported by the development of certain activities in the Republic of Croatia. And certainly, through tax policy and quite certainly to achieve practically increased production that would, of course, lead us to a positive correlation and with a social product in total, and then of course with a deficit. The second thing I have to say and why I'm worried about this law, the bill is that this... an example of actually violating the rule of law and legal certainty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have passed a law that we have not yet begun to apply with a delay of application for next year, and after two months we are passing a law that practically changes this amendment and the addition of the law ceases to apply because the rate of 22% returns. Nothing is delayed but in fact a rate of 22% is returned without any delay of such or any such, period of application, it shall be applied from time to time and from the beginning. In such a situation, it is quite clear that we should consider the situation. And there's something going on that's quite clear. That's what the government wrote in the explanation of the bill. That this law has been extorted by law, that it is a law under duress and pressure from the International Community, i.e. specifically the International Monetary Fund, and that is what it says. First of all, the International Monetary Fund at the request of theirs, which shows a very serious thing that is saddening to me, which is that our government is not actually running politics, but that it is driven through politics and that it has dictated conditions for policy implementation. And that's a serious question we have to take care of. The result is that an argument is sought, as well as how to explain the need for amendments and additions to such a law. And what actually happened today has taken place all day. For example, in the report on the implementation of the budget made in accordance with the Budget Law, we have a 5% deficit on page 529, just as we have according to the National Bank's report that that's 5.1%, so that's approximately the same thing. And then in addition to the report, the argument is given and it is carried out that it is a rate of 6.7%, based on actually another methodology that is agreed with the International Monetary Fund, which is not a legal form, but is actually a structure. and that structure, which is not under the Budget Law, is a rule but a rule of amendment and addition of this law, because it explains that the deficit of 6.7% is a necessary cause and condition in order to actually change and pass the law. In order to return the rate of 22%, not to be delayed, whether or not it is used. The second serious problem that arises here is quite clear that this is one of the measures, the first measure to come under the pressure of the International Community. The second measure, on the other hand, is the issue of a fishing ecological or ecological fishing zone. The third measure is a matter of course of achieving co-operation with The Hague court. But what will be related to the International Monetary Fund will come from a budget that has already been announced. and we want to or not, we're going to have more things to deal with, and this is a question where we should look for common language and look for common solutions. Because what's the indicator that comes from this necessarily? It turns out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its initial talks and negotiations with the International Monetary Fund did not have a platform based on the development and economic policy of this country, which could have provided certain parameters, which could have been warned if one of the issues was chosen, for example, in tax policy or in economic policy or social policy, it would reflect another issue, for example, deficits in one way or another. And it's actually the truth that hurts and it's hard to bother... Because actually where are we going? [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Where are we all going together? This is not a question you know at first sight it can be a question of one government or one government or one party. No, it's not a question of one party, it's a question of all of us. Besides, I have to say and give another example that's very interesting here. It can be read for reasons indicated for the need for an emergency procedure. Because it is said in between, I will quote: "It is proposed to pass a law amending the Value Added Tax Act in an emergency procedure to reduce the deficit in 2004/2005. How do we know what it's going to be in 2005? To a long-term sustainable level, and to halt the growth of public and external debt." Gentlemen, if the deficit decreases and the inflows in the budget of kuna funds, then it only facilitates the service of public debt, but that does not mean that it will decrease. It's something else. Where the money in revenue or spending is going to be spent, that's a different question. Will it be spent on repaying the debt or will it be spent on already passed regulations on, say, social protection or social aids that have been given? And in particular, this fact will have no effect on the exchange rate differences, on movement, for example energy prices, oil, etc. in the world market. That, for that part, we're not prepared. and this shows very serious questions that need to be taken seriously, and what we need to discuss for sure. Otherwise, if we look at the report on the implementation of the budget under the Budget Act, then it is seen that we have practically very well-organised finance, based on naturally invoiced and realised realisation, invoiced realisation, not on the basis of the agreed, rather than the failed commitments spoken of in the addition of the report, which I believe should also be taken into account and no development or economic policy can be made for this year without it, I agree, neither budgetary nor financial. And in this respect, Minister Schucker has the right to warn of that fact as well. But according to the law, the report is something else. So basically if you're looking at that report, then you can see that that's somewhere different somewhere under 700 million kuna. That's according to the data in the report. Now, that's something quite different from what is shown in the explanation of macroeconomic indicators, and the incomes and receipts achieved, and the expenditure and expenditures of the deficit in 2003, that's something else. This is a contribution. This is an attempt at copyright work. Seeing the situation from your own approach to a particular issue. I don't think that, especially that, I wouldn't be talking about it at all, if it wasn't a key argument to amend and supplement this law. Now please. I have something else to say. Nothing is delayed here, but is returning to the previous situation, and to the rate that is already being applied. The second thing I have to say is the question, and how and how will tax policy be used as a means of fostering economic development in the Republic of Croatia? There's no answer to that. This law doesn't give. The truth is the announced tax reform we'll see in the fall, probably. But until then, we will actually meet with the proposal for an agreement on relations between the Republic of Croatia and the International Monetary Fund, I hope that there will be discussions in this House, will be reported. And I'm afraid that in that part, we're going to get the fixed size, the economic policy relations that we're going to have to lead not only in this year, but for a long time, and that we're going to practically put ourselves in a position to have an established economic policy through which we will not only oversee and control the International Monetary Fund, but which it will practically determine what will be led in the Republic of Croatia. That's not good. The second is to talk to the International Entity, regardless of who it is, whether it is the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank or anyone else in the European Union, about exchanging experiences, opinions and, of course, using positive purposes that they can gain. And the third question is when our economic and economic policy is determined outside the Republic of Croatia. And we've got ourselves into this situation that we practically have that kind of solution today. and this bill opens a whole series of issues especially to be taken into account. and I am now seriously considering that the debate on the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia should take place in Parliament as soon as possible and of course on what needs to be done. - Where to next? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12906	I thank the esteemed vice president at home. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12907	Mr. President, here I have to correct a series of incorrect allegations, and this government isn't running politics, it's being led. I think that's a very difficult word. My colleague Arlovic, you couldn't run politics, because Mr Racan especially of the insubordinated coalition individualists could never have made any orchestra except for the biennials. And we know very well that all the indisputables are moving and that what we're talking about here is the consequence of what I just said earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12908	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, vice president at home.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12909	Mr Vice-President, Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure has been injured in relation to Article 214. Rules of Procedure. When I said the government wasn't running, it was led through politics regarding this law, I was also quoting the reasoning of this law. I'll do it again. I quote "According to the request of international financial institutions (mainly the International Monetary Fund) it is to postpone the application of the tax rate to additional value in order to achieve satisfactory fiscal adjustment". It's not policymaking, it's policy-making or policy-making.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12910	Thank you. It is next to the honourable representative Luka Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12911	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, as much as I think about starting otherwise, I can't remember the election meeting in Zagreb in November when the current prime minister and then HDZ president raised the guarantee card high and I would like to quote: "The reduction of VAT from 22% to 20% will be the first measure of the new Croatian government.". I have to tell you that I believed that too, and so as not to be a respectable citizen watching TV and getting informed through the media. Marketable very good move, very interesting but you who are involved in political marketing and who are involved in marketing at all know that if there is no quality product for the good marketing of messages, then it is a pity for the one who pronounces such a message the biggest. But of course I wouldn't want it to be like that. And it wouldn't have been a bad message to me if it had been broken into action. So how much criticism we have from the opposition that the VAT reduction will end up in the hands of those who are not meant for it, every tax reduction, that's what I said last time, and even if it's a VAT reduction from 22% to 20%. However, the reduction in VAT without a full vision of the tax system and the reform that is to be implemented certainly cannot be supported by us, primarily from the HSS, without speaking of such wandering from the proposal and not mentioning such wandering from the reduction proposal, from until the delay of application on 1 January 2001 to the current proposal for VAT to return to a rate of 22% despite the fact that, even under the existing VAT law, it is only 7 months. And in fact, for that amount, the same amount of time the law will not even apply. In fact, we are passing laws that need to be applied in 2005 so we are changing these same laws, we are exhausting ourselves in discussions whether the law needs to be changed and taxpayers continue to pay VAT neatly at the same rate of 22%, and this will seem to do much longer and pre-election promises will continue to be crazy. That's how it usually works. Over and over again, the people seem to want to hear what is right for them, and the fact that reality and it are cruelly unpleasant to him over and over again does not, unfortunately, take it as a lesson to evaluate well and assess the reality of unreal promises. All the warnings from the opposition were in vain and from us from HSS dfa is a VAT actually a consumer indirect tax which in its being an unfair tax and I wonder whether there is a just one. In the absence of any impact on the competitiveness of the economy, on the reduction of prices, labour and thus does not help the competitive capacity of domestic production, exports which should certainly be one of the basic objectives of each tax system. Despite almost all known economists warning that the effects of VAT reduction from 22% to 20% will end up in the hands of monopolies and oligopols and remain in the pockets of the owners of large trade chains and not in the hands of consumers as determined by the Government, the promoter remained stubborn on the proposed changes so that only two months later today, when faced with the demands of the International Monetary Fund, would change his decision and we now have to repeat the same story again. We therefore remain in the view that the reduction in the rate was very doubtful for several reasons. Less than three or slightly billions of kunas, in the state budget, he explained himself in several ways. And neither one of them has been able to convince our representatives that it's perfectly right. He couldn't convince experts or representatives of the International Monetary Fund, of course. What was promised to narrow down the grey economy zone, to charge those taxes that have so far remained outside the tax scissors and the scope of the taxpayers are not arguments that the experts of the International Monetary Fund would believe, and we did not even believe the opposition MPs. And did it even need an international monetary fund mission to get the government to accept the arguments that almost everyone in the opposition brought out of the opposition benches when the VAT law was passed. You'd better tell me about his reduction. We warned you to lose a lot without getting little or almost nothing. We were trying to warn that the reduction in prices that will be on most consumer graves due to VAT cuts will be zero or unknown. By illustrating this at the price of daily printing or cheaper products that will certainly not be reduced by several lipes, they will remain the same and the potential benefit will remain in the hands of large trade chains whether domestic or foreign. And the only effect of raising the standards of Croatian citizens, which this government wanted to stress, will remain only a free wish, and I very little of that VAT reduction in the rest of the consumer's hands, which is certainly, every tax burden so necessary and welcome. I said clearly, this move by the government can be an interest in a part of the Croatian economy, it can primarily be an interest in trade and new tycoons of foreign investors, and I understand this as another gift from the Croatian Government to those structures of the new Croatia and its elite. But no significant relief for the citizens of Croatia, so the return of VAT to the level at which it is today and at which it has always been and has not been either the return or the rise or descent of VAT, but none of it. As useless and barren is this story where there is no store and there is nothing expected of anything but nothing expected of it. And who after all can say that a pre-election promise has been broken. It has been achieved in a double form. Twice in a short time, there was a change in VAT rates, and without a third, there was no luck in the HSS, and I'm personally afraid to think because who knows after all that VAT rate will be after the next change. And you respected citizens who are still watching HRT-plus judge whether Croatia is moving or standing in a thick mushroom that reminds the irresistible of something I will not say even harder. And to remain only my own, my impression or an evil hunch which may be and the fruit of this night's request I expect much more good laws and good moves from the new Croatian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12912	I thank the esteemed representative Roic. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Sočković, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12913	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative Roic said one great inaccuracy by waving our president's guarantee card in pre-election meetings which I will gladly give him to see the credibility of what I will read. So it's incorrect that anything promised that won't be done. Here are the five things the president listed: I guarantee Croatia means tax cuts, we will reduce taxes and thus strengthen entrepreneurship, agriculture and domestic production. Unlike others, we will remove bureaucratic obstacles and provide equal conditions for all. We've heard there's a tax reform ahead of us, so we have time to make it happen. Economic growth will be reduced, we will invest in science and technology, we will stimulate exports and we will introduce order into state finances. Unlike others, we will not take Croatia into bankruptcy. Employment growth, we will increase employment through strong new economic programmes. Unlike others, we young people will not be taken to the future without hope. The growth of standards, we will increase the standard of better care for families and pensioners, by investing more in education and health care, by respecting Croatian defenders. Unlike others, we will restore dignity to Croatia. Fifthly, membership in the European Union and NATO will speed up Croatia's entry into the European Union and NATO, unlike others who have threatened our progress with their indecisiveness and incompetence These are five things that are true. [[Thank you, thank you. /]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12914	Thank you. I had the understanding that it was small, so you couldn't read it any faster. Next, replica, did you answer the line? Replica, the esteemed representative of Turkey.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12915	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This way in these late hours, I was pretty confused today. I wanted to hear a lot today, but I'm going to be very brief, not because I wouldn't have text but because I'm going to tell you the exact impression that I got here. Here were the facts, so the facts non-fict, no matter what anyone said they did to him. I don't believe it, not even a fellow Roic who said he believed it and from a political guide I saw that a believer like myself, however, the facts were spoken on one side of our government and ministry. The opposition, until today's power has acknowledged it. So that's it. But there's another distinction that I do, and that's that our government with great concern Mr. Minister came out here, and on the other hand I felt, don't mind me asking you for one little indignation where it was said like this: you thought, you were walking, nose up high, one, the other, you promised, cards, this, but like we showed you and brought you into a situation that you just couldn't do it. And that's a fact. In front of that fact, I'd just like to tell Mr. Secretary something. Mr. Minister, you could, or the Croatian Government, the Ministry that you run now and worse pass. So thank God that's not exactly the way it is. But not because you deserve it or because you deserve it here, but because in the last parliamentary elections, the Croatian man and citizen said, "Well, that can't happen." He recognized the thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12916	I thank the esteemed representative Turic. The next word came from a respected representative, Ivanish, who is gone. Mato Churchman, no. Dear representative Zdenka Chuhil.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12917	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. In a two-month period, the second time before us is the amendment of the Law of Tax on Value Added. When the Government failed to convince all arguments of parliamentary deputies that pointed to several negative effects both for the budget and for fiscal policy in the short term, representatives of the Monetary Fund and, behold, miracles succeeded. No one gives any more connotations: blackmailing Croatia or someone else setting us up fiscal policy or defining the budget deficit. I did not report that I would speculate on what the tax rate is 22%, and as far as the law is concerned, it would be complemented so that non-profit organisations and associations would be released from paying VAT on goods and services paid or received from foreign donations again. In fact, only two weeks after the amendment of the VAT Act, the Ministry of Finance amended the VAT Regulation which deleted non-profit organisations and associations from the list of legal persons who were exempt from VAT payments to foreign donations, and thereby the associations of national minorities receiving donations from their countries of origin. Now, the ruling on VAT law of NGOs and non-profit organisations are nevertheless multi-discriminatory because humanitarian organisations, health, education, cultural, religious and social institutions and even sports amateur clubs are exempt from paying VAT on donations from abroad while organisations dealing with the protection and promotion of human rights, women's rights, national minorities' rights, labour rights, rights to a healthy and clean environment, associations dealing with the promotion of democracy, which very clearly define Article 3. The constitution isn't freed. I fully understand the Minister of Finance had to abolish a rule that was contrary to the law. That is, by his illegal but not the way he did it. I do not understand his statement that those amendments were necessary in order to prevent the occurrence of abuse and difficulties in monitoring the implementation of tax exemptions and non-transparent financing of non-profit associations. When the tax administration really has control mechanisms and only better organisation of the certification system, better monitoring of users and the whole procedure would certainly be simpler, more transparent, obviously without discrimination against non-profit organisations and their donors. Under the exception of reducing abuse, better control was offered by a new violation of the law only through the refund of taxes chosen from the state reserve. Unfortunately, new discrimination has also been carried out within the national minorities. It is necessary to comply with international agreements and Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia where it is indeed signed. But the non-registration of the law is justified by the fact that the European Union does not prescribe liberation and it is with it that such a release agreement does not deserve a comment. The past government has committed itself to fostering the development of civil society, improving ways of financing. The Law establishing a national foundation for the development of civil society has been passed, which, here, makes the irony bigger just established today and promoted. Thus Croatia joined Western European countries in fostering civil consciousness and began the process of building a domestic infrastructure. This government also confirmed in the national programme for the accession of the European Union in 2004 the interest of cooperation and the promotion of civil society development. It is therefore even more surprising that such small support from the donations of NGOs and organisations wants to take a share of the VAT base and weaken the work on the programmes of these associations. In no better position are the associations of national minorities who receive from the home countries exclusively for the maintenance of cultural and ethnic identities and for the maintenance of work space, must now give one fifth on behalf of the tax. I reiterate my call for international bilateral agreements in which it did not specify it was extremely unserious. Since VAT law is in amendments although not an article defining the release of VAT and foreign donations, this is nevertheless an opportunity for NGOs and foundations working to promote human rights democracy, the rights of national manin rights to work, the rights to a clean environment, to be incorporated into the law. And then the finance ministry defines with its regulation the exceptions because it is the only way that there will be no discrimination and inequality before the law and the criteria will become clearer and more trasnparet. In this regard, I will also submit an amendment, even though I know its fate on occasion because it is only normally bound to change. This amendment would solve the problem in a transparent way and prescribing additional tax control mechanisms as I have already highlighted by better organisation of the certification and user monitoring system, the whole procedure could indeed become simple, transparent. Once again, I stress that non-profit organisations would avoid discrimination, and discrimination against foreign donors, which, unfortunately, currently remains. I appeal to the government and to you ministers to accept this amendment. In order to avoid the epithets that today unfortunately circulate in the press and which we are not immune to, and that is the haatost, blackmail, corruption, discrimination. I don't think we need that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12918	Thank you very much. Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12919	Thank you very much, Mr. President, it is very interesting that those who swear to democracy and europe of honor and the Minister and the Ministry and the Government of such epithets as I do not wish to comment on them. But there is something I would like to say never in the law on value added tax, not profit organisations, lips. and others were not tax exemptions on added value. Formerly, the minister has laid down a rule on non-profit organisations and institutions and associations with Hu Manitarian organisations. Which is not in line with the value added tax law. When we were going to change the law, and in accordance with that, it wasn't necessary to change the rule, then this changed. A discussion was held at the finance ministry with representatives of the associations, and was the representative of the Croatian Helsinki Committee at the meeting. And then they got it because they wanted to form a working group that would define the eyes are associations that could be a release. Because there are 19 and a half thousand associations in Croatia at this point. And the normal thing is that these associations aren't really dealing with the fact that they don't deserve to be staffed. The working group has therefore been formed and it is said that this working group should define what kind of vision and method of oragnification of collegiate action should be associations, which should be classified together with all those who have the right to release value added tax. So it was arranged at that meeting, there were some people who could confirm all of what I'm going to say here tonight. However, when the procedure for amending the value added tax law began, more and more intense talks should be made and the most important proposal is that it should define which associations could be defined by law that are tax-added tax-added exemptions did not come from me. He came from an old representative of the associations, they suggested that they would determine the formulations that they were associations. So it killed their proposal. I agreed to that. But when this law on procedure started, then all that was agreed at that meeting was eliminated and the charges began. Our minister tried to bribe corruption and this, and as I said to them, if it turns out when they formulate what associations they are, if they're not substantial financial resources, two things can be done. DESCRIPTION from the budget shall be effected by the refund of the paid tax on added value, or if we define it to be included in the law. And that was two suggestions. And with those advances, the ministry still stands. But unfortunately, the moment this thing started, every communication stopped. Liberation for everyone. You have a case that one castle is being restored to restore it to the association, with donations from the owners of that castle. You can't say that they're a VAT bond if the rulebook was as written as it was. That's true. You can check that out. The second point is that all donations that come from outside, which are in accordance with the signed international contracts binding on the Republic of Croatia and in accordance with the provisions of the Article 140 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, have the power of supranational law. So all such sponsorships all such donations were exempt from value added tax. Also, all sponsorships that are concluded with projects where they are agreed with the European Commission and the US government are also exempt from value added tax. The interpretation of the Ministry of Finance is that the contracts that have countries of origin with the financing of national minorities, that they are also exempt from value added tax for those funds that receive national minorities for their activity. I'm not going to list them here right now, but I'm saying they have to define what associations are entering that category, which are associations that can't fall into that category. So it's not the ministry, it's the charity of the association to define. And someone's going to say that 19.5 or 20,000 associations can only be so easily controlled that it's not exactly a statement that's true. The other thing is not true that this government, as a minister, has abolished the right to exempt from value added tax never by law. When I asked the representatives of these associations if you would continue to be a humanitarian organization as defined in the last rule, no, we do not want to be a humanitarian organization. Well, we'll leave it in the past rulebook the way it's been so far, no, we don't want to be a humanitarian organization. Now if we're talking about.....I'd like something else I'd like to say something about the foreign currency inspectorate, is with a few months in advance a specific plan of its own control. And by chance, at this point, a type of association came in. And you know what turned up, that's the demand from the finance ministry. And I had no idea where the foreign inspectors went. And then we say that these same democracies are democratic and we are who we are. Well, can't a really inspection go into control of a done job, and shake the matter of inspection as far as the foreign inspectorate is concerned they're doing a few months in advance. Well, it can be checked when it was in the same associations last year. But it's the easiest thing to do under the cover of an association to accuse someone of something that has nothing to do with common sense. If tax exemptions are indicated by law and international contracts have over national power, supranational legislation then I don't see why this working scoupin that met only once did not define what the associations themselves had proposed. So that it will define what kind of organisational form of association and how many associations there must be and how many members of the seas they have proposed that it should be some form or way of determining which one of these associations should be according to their estimates that might be a hundred associations. I said no problem, do it, I'll make a bill, change the law, we'll build it into the law. Why didn't it happen, why now you insist that 19 thousand organizations have it right I don't know. However, for many reasons it cannot be incorporated into the law because it is simply today that anyone can remember who will, you know that under the Association Law it is enough that three people are found and that they form an association and can do whatever they want. Under that law they have the right, you can't do anything to them. It's just something that's inadmissible. And we can now swear on civil society in this or that. However, if there is a possibility of getting rid of it, then it is you who swear to civil society that should insist on it. It is very interesting that Mr. Puhovski agreed with this solution and that we have found a solution for the Croatian Helsinki Committee without any problems. But I'm saying why did those who suggested a model of how to get rid of it give up that model and start calling the papers even though it was a deal until we found a solution that neither the Ministry of Finance nor the association would make any statements to the newspaper, etc. 'Cause it's unnecessary to blow that subject up. Why did they give up on it I can't say why they showed up in our T-shirts today "We're worth 22%" it's also unknown to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12920	Correction of an incorrect allegation by a respected representative of Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12921	Minister, when I was speaking here, I'm correcting your claim, I'm not talking about all the associations, but I've specifically called on Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the values it promotes, which is a very narrow circle of values I will not repeat, you heard them. Thank you very much. So it's not 21 grand, it's just these associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12922	Dear Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12923	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Here's an offer offered just 15 minutes ago by one debate of the HDZ parliamentary representative, I'm starting this address with the next ID. I see you're reading that political guide. I am a believer, a Croat and a Social Democrats both in my activities and as a citizen, as a minister before, and now as a parliamentary representative, I respect the positive regulations of Croatia, and also in the moral norms contained among others in 10 commands, and one of them says "And do not say false testimony". I hope that in these few minutes I will be brief, I will not increase... /The speaker turned off, so I turn it back on./...because I really have an understanding for some of the nerves that are present, which have been coming out this whole day because it is giving up one basic pre-election promise, which is a reduction of VAT. But what might surprise me a little bit more, which might say that we are still on a good track, that the shift was made, that the less nervousness in your case was shown when Croatian generals went to The Hague. What's more, regular plane lines. We tried to ask a question in this House, a place to discuss it, but all demands and appeals by parliamentary opposition deputies did not come to an understanding. I don't know what the fear is about. Especially if we remember, and maybe there's a reason why the former government was estimating for co-operation with The Hague, so her labels are "issue" and "cretnic" and so on. I was in Gospić alone when some of your colleagues tied up with chains, so I was told that I was a commie, a brush, a traitor, and today, things have changed a little bit. Is that what it says in the guarantee card or how it's said to restore dignity I don't know what, because in this return of dignity your coalition partners are now legitimately asking a question and introducing some new anthems and they say it could be "God of Justice" or whatever it's called. I believe that in Croatia there can be only one "Beautiful Ours" anthem and that all citizens, regardless of nationality, must be equal. I'm saying this to show how on this particular example this government has begun to lose credibility. The next step is right here today, it's this debate about VAT, giving up something that's been announced on all the bells. Tomorrow, or today, because we've already crossed midnight, there will be a abandonment of the fishing belt, or what should have been the economic belt, what you asked for. I hope tomorrow the prime minister will come to the defense of this proposal because I remember he used to come at this very time when he was supposed to spread his promises, and today he's gone. So I also fully understand the position of Minister Shucker to whom it certainly is not simple and the anxiety he may sometimes express whether verbal or body language is said, so we should have understanding, at least we ministers need to show that solidarity. But I don't know why you're getting so nervous about your MPs. So to put it short, this is probably just gonna be one of the openings, there's gonna be a lot more of these discussions. It would be good if they were led in a civilized atmosphere if they didn't already have a full understanding of the atmosphere and questions would come about how to repay the debt to the pensioners, we hear that the law is being prepared, I believe we'll see it. As for maternity benefits, I see that the arguments made by Minister Shuker at this point prevailed over some who advocated the formation of an alimony fund. I hope that we will welcome this famous Law on the rights of Croatian defenders, which will not cost 10, 20 or 100 million kuna, but which will cost if you do as God commands, which is to return that law of 97, about a billion, a billion and a half, together with the promises made for members of the Croatian Council of Defense, because the proposal made by the previous Government is said to have been bad, and some of the new ones to this day have not been received. That bad's worth about 500 million kuna. What I do, I don't know if I should say pain because I've already learned on a number of charges, false accusations, is that what the former Croatian Defence Ministry used to discuss the argument that VAT cuts were used at that famous cabinet session, where some ministers were scattered with the irregularities they found. I wouldn't say that because I thought that we really understood each other, that we were reading and listening to what's being published in the media, but I guess that's not because one of the MPs waved some kind of contract, but not everyone. And what did I say? On the charge that some ministers signed contracts after their term of office, I said it was absolutely impossible. And I agreed with Prime Minister Sanader, if that's true, those ministers should be held accountable. And I asked for some state's attorney's office to hurry up with an investigation into that case. Very quickly because I also added that I am willing to carry all the conventions not only criminal but also political. To leave politics, but provided it promises that the party who has made those accusations has given way to the government. The next day was followed by a recruit from the state secretary of the ministry who said the contracts had been signed before, but came later. And you can see all that, and I said all that a few weeks ago, in the books of the same ministry. Of course, the charge is still being filed one day, and it's about a million kunas. Now the vice president said, it wasn't signed, she didn't claim it was signed before, but that contract, for that contract, she didn't know. And one of her first moves was just painting with those kids, sick kids waiting for a heart surgery which two years ago, I'm surprised when it comes to painting, then it's said to be the ministry's action. And when one million is to be paid in the budget of 3.3 billion kuna, then that's the problem, then it's the legacy of another minister. Well, it's really sad. I'm ready if these people at the ministry, it's not your fault, Minister Shuker, for such statements. If they can't find these millions, I'll find them without a problem, but we can't say one thing once, say that's the ministry's action, and the second time when it needs to be realized, of the 2 million remaining millions, then it's the obligations of some others, and all that to end up, to find a reason and another of the arguments as the former government cheated. Really, if we're gonna cheat on sick kids, then we better not even be involved in politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12924	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, honourable representative, Vice President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12925	I warn of Article 210. The Rules of Procedure which states in paragraph 1 that the speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda. Then if you haven't noticed it was all about anything except VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12926	Yeah. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Pero Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12927	Mr. President, Mr. Ivica Pancic's esteemed representative, the incorrect assumption is that the Croatian government sent generals to The Hague and avoided the debate on The Hague. The generals themselves reported to justify the assets of the defensive Homeland War while at the same time, unlike the generals, some fled several times from the battlefield. As far as God’s justice is concerned, as a Belgrade student, you often and gladly listened to it. Now all of a sudden, that doesn't suit you. God’s justice will not be sung in Croatia, and do not spread falsehoods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12928	Dearly esteemed... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12929	... Mr. Mlinaric, who is actually the beginner of the coalition with the SDSS, while at the same time defending the boys of Serbian nationality in a club where the president is to play in certain tournaments, to stop insulting my smallties. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] I don't know where you are, Mr. MP, finished college, probably not, but that's not the problem. I ended it in Zagreb in 92, and the only thing I know from the anthem is "Beautiful Ours", and I never listened in my mind, perhaps Mr. Pero Mlinarić with his friends in the village of Borov listened to God's justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12930	Dear Representative Niko Rebic, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12931	The esteemed representative, Mr Pancic, therefore, although declared to be a believer which is a miracle for his party, incorrectly claims, incorrectly claims that there was no anxiety when the generals went to The Hague. I don't know what extent he measures anxiety, but the true fact is and it is a complex that hurts him and his party that Croatian people, Croatian defenders never accepted him as their minister and his government as their own. So much for Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12932	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12933	... Excuse me. [[Specially enabled.]] I think Mr. Parliamentarian continued to insult me and my colleagues from the Social Democratic Party of Croatia. Look into your ranks. I've never been a party member, and in your ranks are people who may have more internships in that party than I am. So don't insult them either, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12934	Please, peace. Here, we see now what it leads to when it doesn't stick to the subject, then it corrects the allegations that are not related to it. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12935	I've reported for breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I can correct the incorrect allegations, there have been a whole series of incorrect allegations. The assistant, Mr. Pancic said, I'll remind you, I know it's early in the morning, and you've hurt Article 210 and 214 on the way to tell you because you insulted us in your presentation. He also said that regarding the operation of the children, with the Deputy Prime Minister, he could find a million kunas if our assistants couldn't. Well, of course he can find them when he knows where he left them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12936	Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12937	Yes, there's already been a speech on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I would like to repeat that Article 220 again. In fact, the 210th theme has been completely missed. Mr. Representative or as he called himself, his smallness has spent a large part of the topic on chains, on brushes, on God's justice, on contracts that are now bothering him, and he didn't stick to the subject at all, and that's why it led to this debate that has nothing to do with VAT. Absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12938	Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12939	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll still stick to the subject and correct the incorrect allegations. and dear fellow Pancic is misrepresented with Minister Shuker the term "we ministers" is a big difference. Because a respected colleague is a former minister, and Minister Schucker has done a great job for the past five months following traces of those funds that you've "left" in the budget. And it's incorrect when a respected colleague Pancic says they're false accusations on his behalf. The charges were real because many defenders, disabled people and their families were left with no means to live during the period while a respected colleague was the minister of the said ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12940	Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12941	I'm correcting Mr. President's incorrect allegations that young Mr. Agent, that we're nervous and looked at me, that I'm not nervous at all after 17 hours of correcting the wrong allegations. I'm perfectly calm and satisfied that the numbers are correct, beat all the others. And to you as a believer, I would only desire a lot of God’s blessing in that cramp in which I have always wished. Thank you. I won't correct the other allegations, because I would be outside the Rules of Procedure, you haven't discussed the subject at all. So I'm not going to fix what wasn't in the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12942	and respected representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12943	Mr. President. My colleague Pancic, the communists of HDZ, we returned thank you to God in 2000, we lost the election and thank God they went to you. No, please. Then I have to hurry, change the VAT rate to 20% is happening today, or it's coming back to 22% for known reasons, here the waist explains and the expertise, we have to believe on your part. Economic stability in the four years you promised bankruptcy, jobs, instead of jobs, 400 thousand unemployed. The revision of conversion and privatisation, the removal of corruption. What didn't you do? Because on that road, we'd find your SDPs and fewer HDZs. In health care and social security 7.5 billion. And my God, it's not my fault, you did it yourself, not to us, but to the Croatian people. And if it's economic stability, what does Victor Lenac mean? Let the gentleman from your party explain it to me once. And as for the anthem, Mr. Pancic, you owe me lunch and I to you, we'll talk more at lunch. Under the HDZ programme, Croatian anthem sang in this high house, and it will be forever. Second, and finally...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12944	Take it easy, leave the other one for lunch, for breakfast.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12945	I can't, instead, have time to read what they promised the defenders happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12946	Okay. I'd like to appeal to my colleagues and colleagues for a brief discussion. Ivo Josipovic, he's not here. Zdravko Sočković, a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12947	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing a final draft law amending the Law on Value Added Tax. We are able to listen today to a series of exposures that we will be able to share to those who will say that the VAT reduction should not have occurred either or as the SDP said during the VAT ruling that the reduction of the rate is an under-thinking pre-election promise of the HDZ and that the return of the VAT rate to 22% is due to the pressure of the International Monetary Fund in the conclusion of a new stand by the arrangements for which there is no argument. And we can also divide into other ones that will prove through a series of arguments why VATs should be returned to 22% again. I would like to remind the forgotten SDPs that in the election campaign for the elections, held on 3 January 2000, he promised to cut the VAT from 22% to 17%, which of course he did not meet. In the campaign, HDZ pledged to cut VAT from 22% to 20% relying on the state of the budget and on its duties as shown by the government at the time. The HDZ reduced the VAT rate with a delay of up to 1.1. In 2005, precisely because of the higher debt of the state budget than presented. And after we found that a large part of the liabilities were not even recorded in the Ministry, so you deceived the International Monetary Fund and the international community that the budget deficit rate was 4.5%, although the IMF itself found that the rate was 5.9%. You also deceived the Croatian public by falsely showing the real situation at the Ministry of Finance. and what remains of the Croatian government, but that after all that we have come to, we suggest we return the VAT rate to 22%. As the application of the lower rate should be in 2005 nothing will change and VAT will remain as it has been until now, so no harm has been done to anyone. The following has been shown falsely so far. Without the Croatian Parliament's decision, there was an increase in the financial plan, the HAC in which HAC's commitments were raised by a billion, 1 billion 120 million kuna. The hospital's outstanding liabilities towards large-scale drugs by the end of 2003 will amount to 533 million kuna, which means that these commitments became budget commitments in 2004. The Ministry of Public Works implemented 577m kuna funding through HBOR, which is of course not even recorded in the state budget for the past year. The Ministry of the Sea and Transport and Communications withdrew a 241m kuna loan, which, of course, was not recorded in the ministry. The short-term HZ wage loans amounting to 900 million are not recorded in the ministry, but are due to be charged to this government at 400 million kuna in 6 months, and 500 million kuna in 12 months 2004. We can talk about books and ways of calculating as much as we want. But indeed, gentlemen, you cannot convince anyone in this Croatia that if someone does not record and display 3.5 billion kunas and does not register them in the expenditure side of the budget, that is, if it is not a fraud and a false demonstration of the situation and the deception of the entire Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12948	Replica. Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12949	So I was already talking here about what SDP's promises were and how they ended up. We honestly admitted it. At one point we suggested, we had such a bill in '99 here in the Parliament at the end of '99. We didn't say that we didn't know what we had left, but we said we were wrong, it's not good to cut the VAT rate better to cut those taxes that will suit the economy. We therefore increased the untaxed share of income to raise his net wages. We cut the profit tax to make it easier for the economy. We've cut our contributions. So it also makes it easier for the economy, for the labour price to be lower and to increase competitiveness. You've proposed 20%, you won't admit you've made a mistake, of course you haven't done it, you won't be able to meet it, unfortunately in this mandate, we may not be doing it in the next term, but at the beginning of the next term, you don't have the courage to admit that you've made a mistake, and in the very explanation of this bill, the government itself says it's because of the negotiations with the IMF. Not to mention that the entire past term with your colleague Shucker has always resented us for why you go into negotiations and stand by arrangement with the IMF.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12950	The same replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12951	Yeah, I'll use replica time every time to say, on today's day, or I'm sorry, yesterday we discussed the report on the implementation of the 2003 budget on every data you could discuss. The report makes it very clear, and the documents make it clear that the deficit is established by official, legal, Croatian regulation 4.9 or 5%. It's a deficit. It's not 6.7. And something else is important, it says in the documents we discussed, written by the Ministry of Finance. It's about the numbers of unpaid accounts from the previous year. And that's not controversial. Except that we're arguing about some numbers, about some numbers, so we're talking about what wasn't paid, it's all registered and not paid in the last year. So we need to understand that the document that talks about the implementation of the 2003 budget was in front of all of us yesterday and we can read it. And most importantly, every single piece of information has been known in the last five months. Because it was a source of conflict between the current authorities with themselves. How to justify that we can't make an election promise. Whether we want good, we don't burden citizens but it's part of political work. That we can continue for the next five months but I don't think you'll be able to justify the problem of how to realize consumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12952	Another replica. Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12953	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In the debate of a respected counterpart, everything was rife with lies, lies and deceptions committed by the HDZ, the SDP. .../ Who? SDP. Two quotes. First, my colleague Goran Jandrokovic, on behalf of the HDZ Club, quotes literally: "The tax reduction cited, confirmation of the credibility of the government and of the prime minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader and a message to the citizens of Croatia that the pre-election guarantees given by HDZ will be realised." A quote from second Prime Minister Sanader: "We have not made a promise to cut VAT, we have already made a guarantee.". So much for lies, so much for clever delusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12954	Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12955	And as the esteemed representative Linic says, he's been talking all day and I've been talking all day, the basic problem is you said one inaccuracy and that's that these 3.5 billion were recorded in the budget, that's not true. What you wanted to record, it was shown to you. It shows the correctness of this government. We haven't changed any of your numbers. But we had to warn the Croatian public about how to run state finances. 3.5 billion kunas were not deliberately recorded in the state budget, and would misrepresent macroeconomic indicators to misrepresent the deficit. You yourself admitted in a conversation with Prime Minister Sanader that you agree with what I said about a billion and 600 million at HABOR, that it should have been recorded. If only that 577 million were recorded in the budget last year, the deficit is already 5.4.5%. So let's not convince each other, it's a legal document. Mr. Representative, you are well aware that you have determined that with this Budget Act that the Croatian budget is run according to the principle and at the same time the International Monetary Fund has read you and asked you to sign a stand by the arrangement to count the deficit according to the modified method. That's exactly why they knew how you run state finances. And the basic problem with this government is your unrecorded liabilities in the Treasury. If there's a state treasure through it, all expenses must be recorded, you didn't do it. And you can say whatever you want, however, this document just shows the correctness of this government. At no point did it occur to me to write down a single item that you did not want to register in the budget. Not at any time. Why? You're responsible at that moment for these finances, this is all that's not registered to pay this year there are documents. Let whoever wants an independent financial expert come in and tell them whether it's supposed to be registered or not. In which accounting, you want companies, you want an institution, you want a budget, you don't sign up at the moment when it comes, not at all. In what bookkeeping is the return of the loan accounted for as a cost? Not in any of them. So these are the basics, but I say we run a policy on the jumbo, spend what you don't have, it was a characteristic of the last government in all segments. You've spent more than it was in the state budget and that's the basic reason why you put us in charge of the next two, three years we're going to have ugly problems paying it all off. And for every one of these numbers you sign, you don't have to pay it so you can settle it from a private account, though, I agree. In every single one of these numbers you claim to be not cost. HAC. Who gave you the right if this Croatian Parliament is not to you personally, but to the Government who gave the right and which Croatian Parliament received the financial plan. And if you say that a 5.5 billion kuna can be invested in road construction, who gave someone the right to invest a billion and 700 kuna more than this Parliament. We can talk as much as we want about what's necessary. No one argues that roads should be built. But why is this not presented to this Parliament, why it is not presented to the Croatian public that in 2003, for its reasons for billions and 700 kunas more roads, it may be cheaper because the operation on the ground, that some works had been completed earlier, so thousands of reasons were to do so, that the Croatian Parliament would adopt a change of that plan. But the basic problem was you know what. The Croatian highway deficits are said to be 2% when determining the deficits for 2003. And beyond that deficit, it can't go up. And since those 2% were contained in those 3 billion and 600 how much was in the account in this financial plan in total of 5 billion and 600, normally that these billions and 700 kunas couldn't be built into the plan. And it's in the documents. And now you're believing, writing inside, so of course it says, it doesn't occur to me, I've never been overwriters of documents in my life, so I didn't want to re-write them now, but politics at the Jamdo doesn't live on Mark's square anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12956	Honorable representative Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12957	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Each government has the right to bring its strategies and its programmes to the same as any other, as any opposition has the right to be against them. Thus, the HDZ government felt it could do something for citizens' standards to propose a lower VAT rate because it is a tax that will be directly embedded in raising standards. The opposition was against it. There is no space 3 and a half billion will be spent, and traders will invest it in their profits and will not be able to return to the citizens. The citizens won't feel a thing. Each government has its own responsibility, answers to its constituents. You do not have to worry that the HDZ government does not know its responsibility and will not be responsible for its actions against voters. It's certainly our responsibility, and I don't think you have to remind me of that. You've got enough and enough of your things that are still going on and they're still in the fresh memory, so I don't especially count them now. What was fundamental to the HDZ government is that each responsible government, which is this previous one, is responsible for leading the state. Transparency in political expression, each other's word was assumed to have accurate data, that the exact data published in publications and the Croatian National Bank and other statistics, that the exact amount of deficits and with this data was in its plans. Normally, it has now proved that the Treasury does not work, and the Treasury is a complex system of budgetary and financial management of state revenues and expenditures. The meaning of the treasure is that the state knows at all times what means it has, thanks to the single account of the budget to which all state revenues and receipts from which all state expenditure and other payments are paid. If that were the case, then all revenue or expenditure would have been recorded. Then there could be no promotion of special projects or special ministers because then everything would be well known and seen. This way, when the Treasury is not set up, when there are opportunities for the state to be in debt and in certain accounts there are certain, certain assets that are unknown, and then there are various options. For this very reason, it is also happening that the HDZ Government is now forced, forced to make this move, but this means that it has courage because it wants to create a transparent system of government and governance. I don't want to get into some kind of economic development problem because it's too late, but it's been said here that the former government has invested in development and that, that these are indicators that are certainly obvious. However, GDP growth, i.e. gross domestic product, was primarily based on personal consumption and on the growth of state investment. As soon as the CNB adopted measures and as soon as the credit policy towards citizenship ceased, they are different indicators. So much for those great successes. That doesn't mean we want each other to fail. However, we must all be on the trail of Croatian interest, but then we must not run a two-faced policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12958	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12959	What makes us different? And where's the difference? The difference is that in 5 months of this government we make a decision, we reduce VAT 2%. The same government before the reduction decision guarantees Croatia's citizens that the former government has deceived them by 12 billion kuna. 12 billion kunas of unaccounted payments, different methods. The government therefore makes a decision on the reduction, while at the same time talking about 12 billion 5 hundred million unpaid liabilities, unpaid liabilities. It is the position of the Croatian government in the last 5 months. Today, we need to wrap up a debate about giving up VAT cuts. But it's responsible. For what? So because the IMF convinced them that such access to state finances was unsustainable. Unsustainable access, the IMF convinced them. But today and yesterday, what are we saying? No, I don't. It's the former government's fault. So you've been saying the same thing for five months. You've been saying the same thing for five months. So you knew that information. And that's the problem. You have to admit, we made a mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12960	Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12961	The same IMF came on a mission at the 9th month, a month and a half before the election, expressing praise to this government. Then the IMF was good, credible, then the deficit was calculated by methods and then it was wonderful and wonderful. But no one likes it when someone in their life sells jokes and pushes something under his back. So is that same IMF, these same people when they were in HATS, when they were in HABOR, when they were in HZ, they didn't accept our story. Then they said the former government cheated on us. What Mr. Demekas told you, Mr. Linic, I won't say it again, but also that same IMF said that the former government had made a deficit according to the methodology it's been working on since she collaborated with them since 5.9%. So if that IMF was so good to you at the 9th month right in the election, before the election campaign, then I guess that same IMF is worth something at the beginning of this year. The other thing is, it's not true that the IMF forced something. It's your problem if yours was coerced. We talked here about purely economic categories. However, it is very difficult to put into the economic category something that has nothing to do with the economy because if you spend money anywhere, if the state ministry takes over the obligation to repay credit for some private entrepreneur doing some kind of business, forgive me, these are not exactly business that needs to be served by state finances. So if someone figured it out, if someone figured it out the same way someone figured out how you were counting on highways so the first letter of intent changed some things and so on. So if the IMF was good to you at one point, and we're good at this moment when it doesn't say it like you want. However, a clear representative of an international institution has said what he thinks about the policy with which you are so proud, which is that you have not implemented any IMF criteria and you are this government in the fate of the Republic of Croatia when a decision is to be made on positive avis and when a decision is to be taken to set a date for the accession negotiations in the European Union. You know that the European Union does not have its own economic economic committee but to benefit from the International Monetary Fund associations. You know very well you won't say it because you've been talking to these people about how they work and how they work that International Monetary Fund either upon arrival in Croatia or after leaving Croatia, comes to Brussels and submits a report. Therefore, in these moments which are fateful for Croatia for the future of Croatia, no one can be allowed to play with the future of this Croatia. And at least this government. Therefore, negotiations with the International Monetary Fund were conducted and based solely on economic criteria. No coercion with nothing. So at the moment when we put everything on the table when we just did budget projections for 2005, 2006, the year when the suggestion came, it would be best to postpone the use of VAT because of that and, among other things, because of what you did and you didn't have to pay me. It wasn't easy for Prime Minister Sanader to decide on this move. Not even the Croatian government. But it's extremely incorrect that after 24 hours you're going to convince us something that high school students know how to book.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12962	Dear Representative Ljubo Jurcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12963	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister ei fellow Minister. After yesterday's bile and temperament discussion, the listener could conclude that Croatia is in a very bad situation. But from an economic point of view, it's not like that at all, the deficits exist, and it's natural for a country that gets divorced. The auctioning of the deficit is quite natural in one body that is more politically than economically, so everyone looks at it from their point of view. And the correct method to determine what is the actual size of the deficit will show a historical method when all these invoices are paid that would know about 2.3 g of deviation and so on. However, as far as Croatia's economic situation is concerned, it is not nearly as bad as it could come from today's discussion because this shows Croatia's credit rating. I know Minister Schuker has a lot of problems and a lot of work to show that they're catching up with the sacred deficits, the invoices. But it also has great opportunities to manage these deficits and Croatian debt b, while Croatia has a credit rating that has favourable conditions and that is inevitable. It is also certain that every government that comes must take the first step forward. And there will be work for both this government and the next government, because Croatia is very far away from a well-organised charm, both in the political and economic system. What I was going to discuss today is an adjective of the budget deficit as an instrument of economic policy. Since this VAT reduction law was being distributed in the Croatian Parliament, the consequences of VAT cuts were discussed. At today's discussion, I was encouraged by the explanation that I found in the materials where it says that fiscal adjustments that are necessary and due to the accession of the European Union, since according to the criteria of European monetary union, the general government budget deficit should be over 3%. From this statement here in this statement here, the arguments seem to be mixing two important things. And that still doesn't matter for this pariedel of the law. In fact, joining the European Union is not a 3% budget deficit. There is no such conditions in the accession of the European Union. But it is true that this is a condition, or...a criterion for accession to the European mentoring union. And they're partly overlapping but they're different things. And Croatia is now preparing a phase for the European Monetary Union, but for the European Union. This European monetary union is, in fact, when Croatia prepares to leave the national currency kuna and accept the currency of the euro. But before that, become a member of the EU. In no case does this mean that it is not a criterion for joining the European Union, this is also confirmed by the deficit of the just-accessed member states in the EU. The Czech budget deficit is 12.9%, Malta has 9.7%, Hungary has 5.9%, Cyprus has 5.3%, Poland has 4.1%, Slovakia has 3.6%. So this debate from that point of view may have been a little missed today. It is also known that all newly admitted EU members have not become members of the European Monetary Union which are subject to this 3% criterion. And for most of them it'll take at least 5.6 years. It is planned that Slovenia will join the European monetary union so it will take over the euro as a national currency in 2007, perhaps in 2008. Well, it is also likely that Croatia will need several years to join the European monetary union where the target is 3%. The budget deficit so Croatia will not have to reach the Agency's code for several years until 2009. In 20010, we'll see how the situation develops. In any case, by that criterion, you shouldn't worry now. The second reason I volunteered for the discussion is because this establishment limits the budget deficit of 3% is perhaps a little...that the minister may respond later. Perhaps the government suggests that it will give up one strong instrument of economic policy, which is a budget deficit. We need to know that Croatia gave up another strong economic instrument about ten years ago, which is a course. The course is a stable course is a stable course has defined as a goal and thus gave up the instrument of the course of a strong instrument of economic policy. And if, during this period, the budget deficit is also denied, it would in any case facilitate the work of economic policy makers, but it would be devastating for Croatian patronage. In fact, all the developing countries today have benefited in their development, and today they still benefit from the same budget deficit as an instrument of economic policy, when there is a fall in conuktura or in the unemployment situation. The budget deficit is the strongest anticyclical instrument. The basic economic rule is that the unemployment situation requires an expansional, and the inflation situation is a restrictive economic and fiscal policy. This means in the unemployment situation where Croatia now needs to connect budget spending or budget deficits. And in an inflation situation where Croatia is certainly not Croatia now, the budget deficit should be reduced. This is a rule from which a well-known...theorem on multiplicitative action of a balanced budget, which today is an integral part of the theory and policy of public finances most of the developed countries. Croatia has a situation of relatively high unemployment and low inflation, and any reduction in the budget deficit would, by definition, lead to a deterioration of the economic situation. This is not the fate of many developed countries, even the countries that created this rule and introduced the euro such as Germany, France, the Netherlands, and so on, when they reached the fall of the cavalry in those countries, they reach for the budget deficit. They set a 3 percent ceiling and today Germany has a 3.9% budget deficit. France 4.1%, the Netherlands 3.2%, England 3.4% even though it is not in the European monetary union. America has a 3.5% budget deficit. And the Japanese who are trying to dig out of the crisis and yet what's more than 30 bucks percapital, has 7.1% of budget deficits. He's been trying to run a kkonjuktur cycle with it, and it's been trying for a couple of years. All of these are highly developed countries over $25,000 per capita, Croatia has about $6,000 somewhere. This high income also means that these countries have already built both physical and institutional infrastructure that has enabled them to achieve such high incomes. However, while they were building it and climbing towards higher incomes, their budget deficits were also high and even over 10%. Croatia, as I said, has about $6,000 per capita. It has yet to be built and physical and institutional infrastructure, funds, agencies, institutions etc. as a basic increase in Croatian production, Croatian exports, employment, national income. And how can it work with a low income of 6 grand per capital or somewhere $23.24 billion of absolute value. And yet only by the budget deficit. The budget deficit is one type of investment that invests future economic growth, so it is not only reasonable to manage the budget deficit that needs to be feared. If the deficit of 10 billion results in an increase in gross domestic product during the repayment period from 10 billion to one kuna, then it is paid, and if it can be directed to result in a greater increase in gross domestic product by doing so. As the budget deficit is directed, the economic profession and economic policy should be said. You need to have a clear vision and an understanding plan. The plan or strategy is the basis for different negotiations and also for negotiations with the IMF. As we have seen many of these countries that have collaborated with the IMF have much greater deficits than Croatia has. This time, judging by the behaviour of both the Croatian government and the IMF, a good plan has not been prepared for these talks. With this discussion, I would also like to draw attention to the Croatian government that the fixed size or height of the budget deficit does not, knowingly or unconsciously, accept as the objective of economic policy. It cannot possibly be in this stage of the Croatian economy. In this phase and in the next period, it can only be an instrument derived from the economic objective. The deficit does not determine either the European Union until we are its members or members of the European Monetary Union or the IMF but rather determines the economic policy, strategy and programme of the Croatian Government which will in fact explain why it is so small or so small or what such a budget deficit is, and the purpose of national and economic policy is not primarily deficits but growth rates. The 10% deficit will not be problematic if it increases the gross domestic product by 10.1%. Of course, the IMF looks at it from its position which only partially coincides with Croatian views which is logical. The IMF's goal is as understandable as any believer. The deficit, he's looking for a deficit that gives him a commutation and security and even at the cost of slowing down national growth. For example, Slovenia and Poland did so without the IMF but had such a strategy. By bringing the deficits today or in the coming years within 3% when we are away from the European Monetary Union, it is as if we stop planting vines and olives today, because when we enter the European Union it will not...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12964	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Time's up. The replica was answered by Mr. Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12965	Mr. Vice President certainly an interesting exposure. The budget deficit can, but it does not have to be a positive economic policy instrument. The budget deficit under certain conditions can trigger a conukturic cycle, can trigger and stimulate higher growth rates depending on the structure of the economy, depending on the structure of the budget. There are no reserves without reason that the increased budget deficit in Croatia can lead to instability, an even greater budget deficit, and therefore there is no reason for the situation in which the Croatian economy is in view of its structure, given the structure of the budget, to expect the budget deficit to play that role in some other countries. It can also be 10% if it achieves high economic growth rates. This is not the case in Croatia and therefore Croatia must fear and control the budget deficit, and I think it is necessary to make it clear that there would be no confusion, so as not to promise that increasing the deficit of the state budget could result in accelerated economic growth in Croatia. In this structure of an economy with this potential technologically and each other, that is not the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12966	Thank you very much. Here's your answer, Mr. Representative. Ljubo Jurcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12967	Well, that's exactly what the esteemed representative was saying. The budget deficit was actually used to change the structure of the economy. These are, as I said, investments that need to be in line with economic policy, economic strategy, and economic policy and economic strategy dominantly in Croatia at the moment should be a change in the structure of the Croatian economy, and to change the structure they need funds. Where to get those funds from. No one outside will give us the means to change our own structure, but in fact we need to do this to a conscious, rational, professionally-based economic policy why they need these investments and therefore the budget deficit is used, and the other investments that come into Croatia are not concerned with changing the structure of the Croatian economy but are engaged, their goal is to achieve their own profits, not to increase the gross domestic product of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12968	Thank you very much. Now Madam Representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12969	Give up? I won't. I'll cut my hearing short. Here's the Honorable Mr. Vice President, the Minister and fellow MPs. The greater deficit achieved than planned did not appear in 2003, as this would result in a greater deviation from the agreed framework agreed with the Monetary Fund, and on the other hand could not bring the rapid construction of the highway without achieving a greater deficit. In fact, the deficit was hidden from the planned only by one extra budget fund and I will stress again tonight, it was Croatian highways. It led this government into one delusion when she proposed to the Parliament the law on amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax. If the government had been familiar with the deficit in the takeover of power, they would not be discussing VAT this night today. During the first proposal, the government knew that the reduction in budget revenues was decreasing, but did not know that the deficit was greater than the one presented during the transfer of power. So with this knowledge no longer possible, it is no longer possible in the reduced income plus the greater deficit than shown to bring the budget deficit to a rate of 3% over one year but at least two. If knowledge of the deficit is final now. The government has drawn up and submitted a report on the implementation of the 2003 budget, which also includes financial plans, extra-financial funds from which it is visible where spending has been overrun and an increase in the greater deficit than planned. Financial reports of extra-financial funds were drawn up on the basis of final accounts and in accordance with the Accounting Act. I primarily think of the Croatian highways that I took, like this, in the morning already for a brief discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12970	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mrs. Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12971	The inaccuracy of a colleague is that the government was mistaken about the deficit. My claim was denied by Minister Schuker's statement at a cabinet meeting on January 22nd, where Minister Schuker just said the deficit is 6.8%, not 4.5%, as Racan and the rest of the team claimed. Therefore, it is not true that you were mistaken, it is not true that the government was caught by Racanov in a lie, but you simply did not know how to justify itself in everything together because you passed the law two months after the minister himself made the general deficit of 6.8%.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12972	Thank you very much. Is that a breach of the Rules of Procedure, perhaps? Oh, well, you gave up. [[Aggression: There's an injury...]] Now he has the word Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. [[Come on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12973	Mr. Chairman, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'll dedicate my exposure to the deficit. And first of all, I want to make it very clear that I do not like to give lessons, nor do I give lessons. I give everyone the right to have an opinion, especially to the Croatian government to choose their way of leading the Croatian economy. The question remains whether the deficits in the Republic of Croatia have had effects in the last 4 years? Are the deficits in the Republic of Croatia the result of development or consumption? And yes, deficits in the Republic of Croatia are the result of development and restrictions in consumption. It is written to you in documents issued by the Ministry of Finance, it is written in documents issued by the Croatian National Bank. So that's not an opinion, some of us, former members of the government. These are official documents of the Republic of Croatia which very clearly state that the deficits achieved in the Republic of Croatia are primarily the result of investment in development. Investments in Croatian highways, investments in Croatian railways, investments in reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia, investments in health care of the Republic of Croatia. Yeah. That's why we have a very high deficit in the general state. Because especially in the last two years and up to 3% of the deficits have arisen for reasons of investment. And the deficits that resulted from one-off spending in the state budget were significantly reduced in 1999. It is a policy in 4 years led in the Republic of Croatia. It is evident that about 5% deficits have created a 5% economic growth rate and increased by 5%. And they grew by 5%. There remains a question which is another way of economic growth in the Republic of Croatia that will ensure a reduction in the number of unemployed and will ensure in the Republic of Croatia the growth of the economy, the growth of domestic products, regardless of whether they are products or services. Yes, the former coalition government offered that solution. What interests us is the solution of the Croatian government, which is 5 months in Mark's square? What are economic moves, economic measures that will ensure the necessary growth levels of the economy, the stability of the economy so that they can be recognised in some way in the coming period. That's what we don't know. And when we're talking about VAT, then we need to know clearly why we're giving up this proposal? Yes, debts unpaid, and created last year can be 3 billion but will be paid. In a year, two years, according to Minister Shuker. But two index points less VAT is forever less than 3 and a half billion kuna in the state budget. Forever less, forever less. Never have that money in government finances again. And we have a desire to develop, however, a very clearly declarative, declarative position of the Croatian government. We want the railroad, we want the roads, though. HDZ and faster into the railroad, there was a statement. We want to rebuild, speed up the recovery. Yeah. So there's no abandonment of development, at least as high as she suggested and led by the former coalition government. That's the Croatian government's position. But it's also very clear in 5 months of working this government, changing certain laws that talk about spending money on birth, spending money on defenders, spending more money on pensioners, just an announcement. Yeah. And that's part of the deficit. And it's part of the deficit, but now there's a problem. It is no longer a deficit just because of the development, it is now a deficit that we will achieve because we are assessing that the social situation of Croatian citizens is such that we have to give in to them, that we have to secure part and consumption. Well, then they're no longer the deficits that have been so far. Then these are major deficits because obviously both development and consumption is beyond the possibility of the Croatian economy. Above possibilities. But the tragedy of being bigger, spending and development, the reduction of VAT, and the expected rate for this year's economic growth of 3.2%. . It's something you and I don't keep accounts for. It is something that seriously endangers stability and the economy and Croatian finances. 3.2 growth rates, and the problem of strengthening deficits, because we want development, we want consumption, and we don't need two index points of VAT. Well, these are the problems in the Croatian economy. These are the problems we should discuss seriously, without disqualification, without insult, without doing anything, nothing has been done. You know, I can hardly forget, in five months, the minister's movements, I apologize to Prime Minister Sanader in European countries and I hear praises in Croatia. Outstanding crisis, good results, recorded changes. Interestingly, imagine,..., better in the Croatian economy, about Croatian data, about macroeconomic stability than at this point we ourselves are talking about. Very strange. But of course it is still the biggest surprise if you would look at the presentation of Minister Shuker about... how he shows the data and stability of the Croatian economy and the results of the Croatian economy. What's being prepared, that's what matters. It's obvious to the public one thing, and here when we convince ourselves, something else. But there is one more thing, and the European Commission has assessed the documents submitted by the former prime minister, who evaluated both these figures and papers, also said her opinion. Interestingly, it doesn't match what we're talking about today and yesterday. And what nation are we? How are we discussing this? Whether it really is a very simple calculation, 3% of economic growth, the development that has been achieved, increased consumption and two index points. All that doesn't go in the same number. That's the topic we need to talk about. If we'd done that, there'd be no charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12974	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12975	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. It's getting a little clearer as we know it or what we don't know. 5% of the deficit and 5% of the growth, as Mr Linic said simply is not true, is not just a sustainable state in the structure of the Croatian economy. If that were the case, the trends last year show 6.7% of the deficit in the state budget, 3% of the growth. The effects of instability have been shown to occur. And that's why the international monetary fund is worried. and that is why we need to be extremely careful about increasing and overcoming the deficits of the state budget. It would be very nice if that were the case. But unfortunately that is not so, 5% of the deficit is 5% growth in the Republic of Croatia is not a self-sustainable state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12976	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12977	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is known that in all countries with centuries of democracy, and let us say something about this early morning. Because obviously the misunderstandings between these two options, the political options that are here today remain in the House on the left and right have roots about a little deeper reasons. In all countries with centuries of democracy, there are two basic political options. One is a socialist, social-democratic liberal. And second, national, national, democratic, connervative. Among other things, it is known that these two options differ in the way in which one country's fiscal policy is conducted, i.e. the way in which taxpayers' money is spent. And we have had many examples so far in history that if social democracy came to power, that there would be transparency, irrationality, negligentness, violation of the law, even certain nepotism. The same was true over the past four years, and that is quite enough to say by a respected colleague of the professor Dr. Church, former finance minister, who, I won't say this morning, but last day at the Committee on Finance and Budget, said he would be restrained in his vote, because he doesn't know what it says in those documents. The man who was responsible for the management of finance, for the conduct of fiscal policy, doesn't know what it says in the implementation of the budget. And it says enough that practically every little stronger ministry within the Government of the Republic of Croatia from 2000 to 2004 was in fact a small ministry of finance that was.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12978	Thank you very much, because time has passed. Answer to the replica Mr. Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12979	Mr. Chairman. Yes, it was very difficult to be SDP's in the previous four years for a simple reason, because four years had to do a job that was otherwise not done by the Social Democrats. And it is to shorten spending, cut spending, reduce the rights of workers who had in former socialism, I would say to the first decade of democratic change in the Republic of Croatia. It was a job that did SDPs. In fact, all the numbers tell you that consumption has just been cut. But the SDPs are the truth, they're beginning to develop, they're investing in development. And they will bear the burden of responsibility if that development fails. Because simply everything that has been done on savings on the burden of citizens is given in the Croatian road, in the railways, in the reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia. Yeah, that wouldn't otherwise be me saying what particularly adorned social democracy in earlier times. Therefore, as SDPs, I think we were not classic representatives of the Social Democracy of the last century. So in this century, social democracy is turning to market problems and battles for competitiveness. That's what many Social Democrats in Europe do, and the battle for development and competitiveness is something that's obvious what we've been doing for the past four years. The problem is who's going to increase consumption. And who's to waste it, but we can't call it waste, because citizens need that, too. But who doesn't have the courage to tell the citizens that they still have to suffer, because the economy needs help.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12980	Thank you very much. Another replica, Mr. Dr. Stjepan Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12981	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I was offered the presentation of counterpart Linic, who announced that he would talk more about the deficit in the development function. I mean, that's an interesting concept and approach. I'm not an economist, but I'd say some things, because there's been a mention of investment in health care. And it's good to invest in health care. But she forgot one thing when she invested then she had to control herself and reason. Because if you just invest it like you're giving someone a transfusion without stopping the bleeding before that. So there's no effect and there's real damage. You're saying that this government has no measure of how to run a state policy and I would remind you that exactly the main measures of this government are how to control the expenditures that you've now mentioned that you've controlled but it seems very weak and impossible to me because if you'd controlled them then you wouldn't have entered these deficits. And one more thing, there are laws that we must abide by and the laws say that in the current year we must not spend more than is determined by the budget. And you have just done so that you did not respect the law that passed this National Assembly and that you entered a pan-opted deficit knowingly in violation of the law. And the biggest health investment on Rebra wasn't in this House, it was just the government's decision. And that's why I think after this exhausting debate that you're wrong and that the government measures that are now in place, and that's what this is, this measure to keep the VAT at the same level just to patch up all these dubiosiss for the next two years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12982	Thank you, thank you very much. Answer to the replica Mr. Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12983	The 5% deficit in the Ministry of Finance documents is what it means that we invested in roads and in health care and reconstruction. And also the unpaid bills for the works carried out last year will be the burden of the deficit in 2004, will be a burden, will be a burden and it is all recorded and there is documentation. There's documentation. You know, it's hard when we have to talk budget holes, when we have to talk about it when someone says expenditure and we use the term deficit. It's really hard to talk about these topics, they're not the same concepts, they're not the same concepts. Thus, $24 billion in debt is recorded and this is the price of deficits in government budgets from earlier years and in 2003 and investments in both roads and health care. And all that registered, it's all registered. The only question remains whether or not we appreciate the need to invest in development. In five months of work by the Croatian government, five months of work by this Parliament, I have not heard anyone say that they were not supposed to invest in development and that resulted in this deficit. It's something we have to understand, we have to accept and accept or we have to give up development and say we're not going to have developmental deficits, but I haven't heard that, and I'd like to hear if such a statement is present.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12984	Thank you very much. She's got Mrs. Pearl Perman's word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12985	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I did not report to the first and second readings in the adoption of this Act, believing that the counter-proposed arguments of professional people in the former and current government are sufficient to make the current decision and that the current government knows what it is doing when it comes to this change, although it has heard warnings against, particularly from former coalition government ministers. In favour of their proposal to cut VAT, they presented a series of data and a statement, so again I want to remind myself of some even though we heard most of the previous discussions, yesterday and here are today. In his first reading, the prime minister pointed out that the government decided to reduce VAT due to concerns about the standard of Croatian citizens by stressing key problems, key problems and burning issues of contemporary Croatian society, growing standards of purchasing employment power, etc., he also said that this 2% and 3 billion kuna respectively will compensate for increasing the control of natural resources discharges of water, forests, quarrys, mineral raw materials, etc. Then, by strengthening the control of public companies for a more rational and successful business. Then, by reducing the grey economy as a whole, by introducing discipline into public finances and reducing public administration from state to local level. He even mentioned at one point a potential surplus that could appear. In a second reading on March 25th, Minister Schuker said that 2% of VAT cuts reduce the burden on all Croatian citizens that this is a fulfillment of HDZ's pre-election promise, an increase in the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, to reduce budget spending from the state budget of units of local self-government. Speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr Jandrokovic states among other things that this is a confirmation of the credibility of the government of Ivo Sanader and a message to the citizens of Croatia that the pre-election guarantees of HDZ will be realised. That the government considers this model to be the best and most effective, that it will have positive effects on the Croatian economy, that it will reduce the cost of living so that the Government invests those 2% and 2.7 billion kuna in the growth of the standards of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That it will have positive macroeconomic effects reducing prices etc. During the debate in the first reading, the prime minister even apostrophe said it was not a pre-election promise but a HDZ guarantee that it would reduce VAT and that it is doing so. He also mentioned a budget breach of 1.6 billion kuna. During the discussion, Minister Shuker also mentioned several concrete amounts in the second reading. 8.5 billion outstanding liabilities from last year, then 1.5 billion for Croatian railways, loans of 600 million, and 400 and 500 million kunas that come this year. Government commitments of 760 million bonds for Croatian highways. He also mentioned that he could provide a specification for $ 6.5 billion, etc., etc. I must finally highlight my confusion, namely, after these powerful government arguments to apply the VAT reduction. After hearing about the deficit in the budget during the debate, budget breakthroughs, commitments this year supported and figures, I conclude that the government knew very well what difficulties it would face. Nevertheless, it stubbornly insisted on a VAT reduction. That's why I'm asking myself, all of you, colleagues and fellow MPs and government what happened, what are the real reasons for this VAT return to 22%? I know I won't get an answer at least not the real and real one, so we don't expect it. And I'm not interested in the assumptions and stories about the pressures outside international financial institutions and by chance as I am neither interested nor the accusations of the lies of the former government because all duties and obligations were also known in the adoption of the VAT reduction law. Finally, if we look at the real state of the announced increase in pensions, the adoption of a new Law on Croatian defenders, giving up on the fishing-environment belt, on the catastrophic state of HZZO, on stopping investment in Croatian railways, the question is: is this government sufficiently professional and competent or something third? Since unlike some colleagues, I don't want to insult anyone, I will refrain from answering. Take him out on your own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12986	I thank Mrs. Representatives. And as the last to take part in the debate by the representatives, Mrs Zdenka Babic-Peterevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12987	... [[Speech is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12988	And I especially appreciate it, here. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Secretary Schuker. Here you go. Namely Nikola Vuljanić and Mrs. Kosisa Chicin-Shain are not there, so I can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12989	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here is already almost 2 hours of a new day, but regardless of the atmosphere and debates that were today, I want to thank all the MPs for this debate, given that these discussions are similar to what has been repeated since 2000, I sincerely hope that we will come to Croatia in a situation where the government is being handed over, that then ministers will sit together and that each other will learn about all the ambiguities and possible problems that could happen in the first months, and also if the country is in a situation like Croatia now, there is one arrangement at the end and that it wants to make another. I think that it will come to this and that we will come to such a level of democracy that ministers will no matter whether it is the same political option or different sitting down and perhaps give each other directions on how to set ourselves in certain moments for the simple reason that we are all doing this job primarily for the benefit of the country in which we live. And if we start to understand this business, then I think that these discussions will no longer be in the Croatian Parliament and therefore I will no longer speak 5 or 6, 7%. My colleague Linic stayed at 5, I stayed at 6, 7 and that's how we end up. We'll, uh, we'll probably clear it up someday. So here, in these early morning hours, thank you all for the debate. Perhaps sometimes different views are good to see that some things need to be changed, especially in relationships with each other because we are firstly chosen here to work on the well-being of our people and our homeland, and not to produce ourselves, so I say perhaps in some future times and somehow different relationships because Croatia is above all else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12990	I thank Minister Shuker. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item and announcing tomorrow's session of the Parliament at 10 o'clock. The first item of the agenda is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to Criminal Law, one and the other number 88 and 89. Third point of the Law on Interests and Fourth Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Communal Economy. Thank you, thank you, and I wish you all a good night and a pleasant night and that the sooner we forget how much we've been sitting here tonight.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12991	Final draft law amending the law on value added tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 109. The debate on the text of the Law is over. The amendments were submitted by representative Zdenka Chuhnil. But unfortunately, that amendment is not allowed under the Rules of Procedure because it is submitted to the articles of the Law which are not amended by the proposal of the Law, that is, paragraph 163(3), if the final draft of the Law changes and complements the law, the amendments can be submitted to the articles covered by the proposed amendments and amendments themselves. So unfortunately, this amendment is a colleague for these formal reasons that cannot be discussed. And we've got from the IDS MPs' club. I'm asking State Secretary Martin Dalic. The Ministry of Finance is showing up on the amendments. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12992	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12993	Yes, this is ours, we have three amendments. The law has three amendments, i.e. three articles and ids, suggest that article 1, Article 2, Article 3, be deleted. In one word, we oppose that after the VAT rate has been reduced from 22% to 20%, 22% has been returned. We hold in one word that we are in a rough way deceived when it was going to change this law. Whether 5.1% per IMF is 5.9%, according to HDZ 6.7%, we hold that theoretically if this would result in a savings of 3 billion kuna and if this would be divided into a group of 4.3 million inhabitants, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia could theoretically participate in the distribution from some 600 to 700 kuna or 60 to 70 kuna per month. It is something that would be a real incentive for every Croatian household, so I would therefore like to believe that the representatives of this honorable House will insist on how they performed in the election and post-election time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12994	Thank you. Who's up for this amendment? Who's up for this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2 to the same club IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12995	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12996	Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12997	Please vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 3 to the same IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12998	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u12999	Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-02-0.u13000	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that, with 78 votes for, 2 against and 7 abstentions, the Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax has been adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer. First we go to - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, first reading P.Z. No. 88; - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code – Proposer of the SDP Representatives Club, first reading of P.Z. No. 89; Proposer of the proposal is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. P.Z.E. emphasizes. Other Proposer of the SDP Advocacy Club. Here you go, buddy Pacek.
