ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u863	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. The government of the Republic of Croatia decided and made a decision to reduce the VAT rate and the proposal we sent to the Croatian Parliament for several reasons. First of all, taking care of the standard of Croatian citizens who have in the past since Croatian independence in many ways contributed to the heavy burden of all the national problems we have faced over the past 14 years. And I think the time has come for these great national problems, and the great national objectives that we have achieved, the big national issues that we have dealt with for a long time before, for the first 10 years, and for the mandate of this previous government to go to the second plan, and for the key problems to finally come first, the burning issues of modern Croatian society, which is at the very heart of the first question, the most important question of the growth of standards, the growth of purchasing power, the growth of employment, etc. By considering and discussing a whole series of problems, we are holding and that is our deep belief that reducing the VAT rate on added value of 2% can contribute and can directly contribute to the growth of the standards of all Croatian citizens. How can we expect that someone might ask, given the fact that the price formation in Croatia is free and that if the Parliament makes such a decision that it does not mean at the same time that 2% of which the Croatian Government and all of us expensive, Croatian citizens, Croatian taxpayers that we want to invest in the growth of standards that guarantee that it will end up really in the pocket of consumers, in the pocket of citizens. And that's a matter in place. However, since we do not want to live in wild capitalism, since we want to develop among all the components of Croatian society and entrepreneurs, and consumers, and with all of us a constant awareness of population solidarity, we hold that this measure is precisely because there is no possibility that the Government will sanction it and that the Government is controlling it, and that the Government is controlling whether the trader will raise the price and put that 2% in his pocket. On this particular issue, we can all pass or fail a maturity test. At the meeting we had with the Croatian Employers' Association, I asked them for support, so I even sent a public appeal to traders about 2% that we want to invest in the growth of standards, let them really end up in the pocket of consumers, and it is about 3 billion, about 3 billion kuna a year because 1% is about a billion kuna. And I call, I also called for a session with the HUP, and today I call here at the meeting of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce to contribute to the growth of standards and to lower prices by 2%. Make it a joint action for all of us. We want to cut VATs, VAT rates by 2%. Please also reduce your margins by 2%, so let it go, all be 4% for Croatian citizens, for Croatian consumers. I'm especially glad some trade chains have already come forward and said they'd back it up. I am glad that the Croatian Employers' Association has publicly said that it will support this measure, and I am glad that the Consumer Protection Association has also supported this decision. And here, as in some other cases, I believe that consensus should be reached. There have also been announcements from the past government in the election campaign that it will reduce the VAT rate to 17%. The last government didn't do it. We want to do it from 22 to 20% aware of the risks and questions that will be raised and put before us and we have thought about how to replace those 2% and 3 billion. And there are ways to make up for them. He's got a few aspects to keep in mind. First of all, I think I can make up for the increase in the control of the exploitation of natural resources - water, forests, quarrys, mineral raw materials etc. that it can be compensated by strengthening the control of public companies for their more rational and successful business as well as by reducing the grey economy as a whole. It is one of the major problems that is not related to this or that government, these or those political orientations, but to the entire society in Croatia, and I think we all care about reducing that grey economy. It is both in the interests of workers and in the interests of employers and in the interest of the government. Furthermore, we hold that by introducing discipline into public finances we can also contribute to the achievement or settlement if we invest these 3 billion, if it passes and I ask the Croatian Parliament to support this decision if it passes so that we can really and from this measure simply one stronger discipline, also replace some of the funds with discipline in public finances. And finally, the reduction of the public administration, the reduction of the number of ministries that will not only be linear but also have to serve that purpose and the goal that made us define ourselves, which is that we have a slim, efficient, effective government that will communicate much better between the ministries when there are 14 ministers than if there are 22 but it should not remain only on a linear reduction but indeed also on a reduction in the administration as a whole and we have started from the head. We want this to continue further towards lower levels to the counties, cities and municipalities. Of course, there will be a question of what to do with the surplus that will occur or which may eventually appear. This issue is open and we will discuss it and of course it is the government's wish that no one finishes on the road but that different programs direct the work of these people to other institutions or to the free market. Therefore, all these measures that I have listed are convinced that we can make up for these three billion kunas that we have proposed in the draft law as of 1 January. Why January 1, 2005? Because we need time (a) to prepare the state administration for all these measures, and (b) to pass the regular usual parliamentary procedure that we are about to begin today. Therefore, we did not want to rush without saying that and that we will have talks and we will have, on this yesterday's speech in the current hour, we will have talks and I am happy with the representatives of the former government already and tomorrow where we will determine why and where the budget has been broken, which is why some decisions have been confirmed after and after the voter in Croatia has made a decision on the change of government. Therefore, the financial commitments that have been made after 23 November are the subject of conversation, we would like to consider this in the best interest of the "bona fide" with the actors who have made these decisions in order to come out to the Croatian public with the full truth. So, it's not an alibi, it's more of a reason to prepare ourselves well to reduce the VAT rate by 1 January 2005. I am convinced by the reactions in the Croatian public that this is a good measure, that this is a measure that, if we raise the level of social awareness, if other factors are included in Croatian society, we will be able to invest directly in the growth of Croatian consumers' standards with this measure. And therefore I ask you to support this law. We have time, we are certainly open to any amendments and possible proposals if something can be improved but these are important reasons why the government is proposing a reduction in VAT rates from 22% to 20%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u864	I thank the Prime Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Chairman of the Committee on Economy, Mr. Ivan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u865	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs! The Committee on the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 1st session held on 27 January 2004 discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act submitted by an act to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 5 January 2004. The Committee shall be based on Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax discussed as an interested working body. In the debate following the opening presentation of the proposal's representatives, part of the committee's members raised the question of planning other tax burdens in order to fill the state budget, the issue of creating simulations that should affect price reductions, competitiveness of the economy and reducing the grey economy and the need for a full reform of the tax system. The proposal for a social impact should also propose differentiated tax rates. The majority of the board members supported the proposal for a proposal and a position in which this is the first step in reforming the tax system that will have a positive impact on the work of the standard of living of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. After the debate was held, the committee decided, with 7 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 2 votes with abstention, to propose the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act is hereby adopted; and 2. Opinions, objections and proposals submitted in the debate shall be directed to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u866	Thank you very much. I'd like the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the state budget of Mr. Shim Artenach to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u867	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee and personally, I wanted to contribute to the rationality and speed of work, so as the president asked us not to greet him, here I am doing it to shorten the debate. And secondly, a very brief report from that committee, however, unfortunately the procedure predicts that we must read everything that stands inside and allow it very briefly, if I may. So, the subject is to change the VAT. In short, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament held a debate last night at the first session of the draft law on VAT submitted by the government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament since 5 January 2004. Financial and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of its competence as referred to in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the law in question as the home working body. I guess this knows everything, but I have to read it because it says so. In the opening statement of the Prime Minister, it was shown that the proposed amendments to the law in question relate to the reduction of the overall tax rate from 22% to 20%. In addition, provisions on tax exemptions from value added tax have been amended when it comes to importing and supplying goods abroad paid from foreign donations other than oil and petroleum products, tobacco products, alcohol, alcoholic beverages. A round of donors has been extended to non-profit organisations, institutions and associations. It is also proposed to amend the criminal provisions allowing the tax authority to determine the criminal measure of the prohibition of labour to the taxpayer if it does not account or does not pay value added tax. The proposed amendments and additions to the law in question would be applied as of 1 January 2005 because of the need to make all organisational and technical adjustments, both tax and tax payers and tax administrations, with a view to improving the system of collection and supervision with a basic objective of increasing tax discipline and increasing income from that tax in order to compensate for the expected fall in tax revenues due to a reduction in the tax rate of 2%. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to propose unanimously to the Croatian Assembly the following without debate. In conclusion, the draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act is adopted. For the rapporteur, the chairman of the Committee. Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u868	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening a ten-hour debate... an hour-long session... to report to the debate counsel... individually on this agenda point. So, 11 o'clock would have expired that hour for individual applications and for clubs, clearly. We're going to a club debate right now. The first is on behalf of the IDS Club, a respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u869	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. If anyone asks the IDS club if it's for VAT reduction we'll categorically say yes. Are we going to vote to cut VAT? We'll vote. Secondly, as I am experiencing them, citizens expected in some way that according to the election promise VAT will be reduced de facto immediately. These delays of a year and so on cause skepticism in some way. We've heard promises from, everyone, the government, and that's why our citizens want deeds, not promises. Secondly, to God's concern about the budget, we keep in the IDS is not the primary matter of the opposition but of the ruling majority. At this point at the head of HDZ. Therefore, the responsibility for the implementation of the budget items is no longer in the former but, clearly, in the current government. And I think we're all aware of that. I see that this government is now trying in a way to justify itself in advance by a greater defiance than the one it has expressed or expressed by the former government. Here, now we're talking about a deficit of 6.85% of the gross social budget. The former government mentions 4.5% of the gross social budget. This government is talking about health debts of 7.5 billion kuna, the former acknowledges 1 billion and 500 million kuna. Which is true, I don't know, but it wouldn't be too bad to talk about these topics at one of the assembly sessions. Finally, the hard truth will only be enough for us at the moment when we get ahead of ourselves the budget of the Republic of Croatia for this year. Until then, these messages of the HDZ government are part of the public, meaning the deficit, interpreted in a way that the gentlemen have received power, but that they don't actually have any real solutions how to run Croatia under quotes. Next, we all understand that by 2% of states, the VAT reduction is deprived of approximately 3 billion kuna. Once again, I point out that budget concerns in my court are no longer dominant in an opposition that will not be able to create budget items but exclusively in the government. What this government would have to admit to the former government is that it somehow launched Croatia. Perhaps not enough, she may have wandered in some part of the way, but it is true that opportunities today are incomparably better than 99. Finally, the gross social product will grow by about 3 and a half to 4 and a half percent in 2004. Since that growth, the budget will yield at least 5 billion kuna. I repeat, the 2004 budget will be at least 5 billion kuna compared to the former one in 2003. And it will not be the result of any measures by the new government but will be achieved under quotes based on what was done by the government before. And so much, if you have, gentlemen, 5 billion kuna more than it was in 2003, then sacrifice 3 billion kuna to reduce VAT, but right now. And you will again be in one plus 2 billion kuna. It's true they're going to grow wages, they have to grow pensions, they're going to pay off foreign loans, but let's cut the VAT, too, because I think that's how one logical sequence of thinking is. Secondly, it is also clear that this reduction in VAT by the circus 2%, will not feel dominantly our consumers, I will say that later. This reduction is likely to be felt by traders probably, as Mr. Shucker has often said in the opposition that 60 to 70% of what the note is true, VAT is achieved at the border itself. It is also true that VAT pays this end-user he will call them intermediaries returned but de facto the greatest benefit of that reduction will again be the traders. THAT'S HOW SOME European examples testify, and I wrote down one that mild VAT reductions say do not affect price reductions but also does not affect less work on black, there are several examples but I will not present them. In 1996, it means two years before the VAT law came into force, the IDS proposed as the first parliamentary party its legal solution to define Croatia by three feet. So for a total of 22%, a rate of 11% that would be paid for the services of these travel agencies, and catering services of accommodation and nutrition, and a rate of 5.5% for basic products of agriculture, fisheries, food products, school supplies, toiletries, clothing, newborn equipment, toys, now that I see how much to throw it out and clear medicines. We didn't exactly predict a zero rate on some products like the bread we suggested 5.5% and I think it's logical as it is also logical to say an announcement of the introduction of flour stamps, and we'll support it if it works out here what was done with cigarettes. Why should it be against the zero rate, because everyone needs to pay taxes and so is in all Western European countries. I will quote Professor Jelicic, in principle, to say, "I am against the zero VAT rate and I believe that the social sensitivity of the states should be shown by introducing reduced rates." It's also a logical solution to me. What does the VAT look like in the world? Germany has a general rate of 16% and reduced by 7. France 19.6 in general, the reduced has rates of 2.1 and 5.5%. In Italy, VAT 20% decreased 4 and 10, England has 17.5% and 5%, etc. But what would that mean for the budget now? One such suggestion as the IDS suggested in 96 may have gone painlessly. We all know that VAT was introduced only one. 1. In 98 and that year, there was a paradox that we ended up with about 7.8 billion kuna and the state is like drunk billionaires instead of somehow staying in the economy spent, and the economy de facto choked because the VAT is paid we all know at the time of the invoice and not the collection and so much more difficult that VAT is neutral, as it stands in this explanation for tax users clearly, theoretically stands but in fact it is not so clear. The fact that at the time of the invoice, you pay VAT and do not charge it is for many devastating, and in particular it was the case at the time of that catastrophic indifference in 98 and 99 years. This was then to be added to those tight interest rates, so interest on interest which was classically interest rates and the system was then literally destroyed. For Croatian citizens, I will once again say this slight VAT reduction will hardly have any major effects but every tax discharge of citizens and entrepreneurs should be welcomed, and therefore the reduction of VAT from 22% to 20%. It is clear that it will not start Croatia, Croatia can only launch a radical reduction in state spending, it is clearly impossible, and restructuring the economy, I will have here and privatisation in mind but what a mood in the public and it will go hard. The opposition's announcement that it would not vote to cut VAT in my opinion is not very credible if we know that before 2000 the opposition proposed a reduction in budget expenditure and a 17% VAT. And for the fourth time I will say and repeat that the budget concerns at this time are no longer in the opposition but in the new government. But let the gentlemen also reduce VAT by 31. 3. I agree IDS is not against logic making it worse, but we are also so that we are not deceived in pre-election time. It should hope that the ruling majority, such as the former government, will continue to reduce other taxes and contributions. The third-month administration reduced taxes and contributions by 20%, while increasing salaries and pensions, not the 20% standard, and the budget increased by 20%. For example, the profit tax of 99% was 35%, now 20%, income tax is also significantly reduced, contributions for MIORH from 21.5% were reduced to 20%. The contribution to healthcare from 18% was reduced to 15%, perhaps at the price of a major health deficit. I also note that HDZ knew exactly what state the country was taking over in 2003, as the former government knew in what state it was taking over the country in 2000. I would also like to say that the growth of gross products in 2004 will not be dominated by the dominant new government as well as the decline in unemployment that will take place in the second half of this year will also be of no importance to the new government. The biggest thing that has been done by me until 2004 is the fact that Croatia has been pulled out of international financial political isolation and that part of the economy has become independent of central government policy. When taxes are due, I think one more thing should be kept in mind, which is that in the final year of the term of office of one government is not reduced because it could endanger the rule of the new government. As well, I agree with today's authority is wrong if there was significant borrowing after the election, the announcement of election results by the former authorities. So the last changes should be good a year before the new elections. And the point is, what I'm holding. The current VAT of 22% is 18.3% according to the tax guide for citizens of the Zagreb Institute of Public Finance, so the reduction of VAT to 20% from 22% will lower theoretically, from their newsletter, by up to 1.64%. And that's the point. This Law may even be a small bone that was dumped here in the Parliament, and the question is whether it will begin with 1.1.2005. If we're looking for that law to come into effect right now, I don't think that's too much. If we divide these 3 billion kunas by 4.3 million inhabitants they will on average profit for cca 70 to 80 kuna annually or monthly between 6 and 7 kuna. Clearly, the one with 3,000 kunas will have 3 times less benefits than the one who has 9,000 kunas of salary. The fact that this government, on the other hand, as previously told us by the Prime Minister of those 3 billion kunas, among other things, will make up for the increased tax returns, I think it's one quite brave thing, uh, the introduction that suggests that those who deal in the business, among other things, are tax evasionrs, but we'll also probably all agree in this assembly and beyond that it's incomparable to collect taxes rather than to create money to pay taxes. And lastly, I believe that HDZ means a similar promise should be reduced immediately. We'll vote for it. Not with that one-year delay because we're afraid it might go on forever. And to end, if citizens kept to election promises, then they would themselves create a selection of how to vote, not one way to behave in the pre-election time, but the other in the post-election one. Among other things, we appeal, which is only the first reading that VAT is clearly reduced for tourism, for accommodation services, for fire equipment. Among other things, we note that a zero rate should also be introduced for the VAT on donations that behave in the country and perhaps for the water used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u870	I thank Mr. Caine. The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. I note that, for those who have not yet met, a representative of the Government may report for a word throughout the debate an unlimited number of times according to Article 145, paragraphs 1 and 147. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u871	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since the presentation on behalf of the IDS Club, representative Cain coloured and politically calling for a pre-election campaign, then I am obliged on behalf of this majority to whom the Croatian voter has given the mandate for the next term of office to answer that I do not accept in anything your argument that the promise is not fulfilled. First of all, we made no promises but a guarantee. We've provided a guarantee that we're going to cut the VAT rate, and we're doing it right now. So today we begin the debate, and in the first session of our session, at the first session of the new government, that decision has been made. Therefore, since the government is not making a decision, let us not the Parliament here because of those who may not know how to avoid the full truth in front of the Croatian public. This law goes into parliamentary procedure. We propose for all those reasons to come into force on January 1, 2005, to be serious and responsible, and you spoke about it in your presentation at the end. Thus, this is by no means a failure of its guarantee or promise. Otherwise, quite the opposite. This is exactly the beginning of the fulfillment of that promise. The parliamentary debate at this second, third session of the PV-decrease Parliament is the fulfillment of the guarantee. And that's why we let go of the political bickering. The difference between this government, when you want to, and the former one is that we will meet our guarantees, and you were part of that government for a while, and then you went out and no one knew where you were. So that's it, that's it. I didn't mean to speak politically, but since I have the right and the duty to protect the truth and what's going on here today, I felt it was necessary to say it. You mentioned the debt and what we're talking about today and we need to talk about, and I repeat again, it's not an alibi, but what are we supposed to do? Say these billions and 600 that have been breached in terms of highways or other topics that we're going to discuss tomorrow at this meeting, should we keep quiet about it? I'm convinced that even some colleagues from the former government didn't even know what it was. Are you asking us, Mr. Representative, to keep this quiet? And if we talk, it's an alibi. And I'm going to remind you that the former finance minister is also in terms of this debt, or a billion-and-600 breakthrough, that document we have directed to the government his negative opinion on asking that the government not support it, however, the government did it on December 18th. We don't know all the reasons. We'll see them tomorrow. Should we keep quiet about this? If we kept our mouths shut, we'd be part of it, and I think we're bound to tell the public what it's all about. If we're talking, then it's an alibi, if we keep our mouths shut, then we're suacters. What are you looking for? You give us one smart proposal. Here's what I'm gonna do, and we're gonna act like it. So we can't talk, or we can talk about it. If we may, then we'll speak. And then don't tell us it's an alibi, it's no alibi, it's simply a duty to the taxpayers of Croatia. Therefore, I am fully on this, so we are going with this law, and I thank you and the IDS Club for supporting this law, which you will vote for it, and absolutely it is a fulfillment, and we believe that this is an appropriate deadline on January 1, 2005, we never spoke of any contradiction, find me one of my statements in an election campaign that would conflict with what I'm talking about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u872	Thank you very much. We've got three corrections on incorrect allegations. First is representative Damir Cain, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u873	Your Honor, Mr. President, IDS is not asking anyone to remain silent, we are all allowed to speak, dear God. But we're even happy with the turn of HDZ policy a year ago you were against the IMF or the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and now you're in, and I welcome that. and I think it is one important, important progress for all of us in the Republic of Croatia. However, I would like to remind you that Mr. Shucker, that there is no talk of a reduction, and we are looking forward to shrinking... [[/Speakers speak out loud, not understood)]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u874	My colleague Cain, please correct the allegation incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u875	First, Mr. President, you need to warn your party's representatives not to turn off the microphone. It's not true that we're looking for someone to keep quiet, but we're asking that everyone can talk about anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u876	Don't charge one party or one party's representative with shutting down your microphone without any evidence. You don't know that. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u877	Mr. President. The Prime Minister, Mr Sanader, speaks of a deficit that is greater than 4.5%, which was established together with the International Monetary Fund on 17 December this year as a final item. So it's incorrect here to stress the breakthroughs on the roads, in health care, I don't know what else, which have not been proven, and so it's said that tomorrow we'll only discuss it. On the other hand, this inflating of the god's deficits is causing great damage to Croatia. Namely, such a display of the deficits by foreigners can and can be accepted and said when you yourself claim that the deficit is so large, so be it for you, but we will draw you such an interest rate and make such new financial conditions in the following year. So it is incorrect and wrong and harmful to stress that the deficit is greater before it is established. And the determination is yet to follow.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u878	On behalf of the motionary Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u879	I didn't mean to talk about it today, but I was moved by Agent Cain's stand. I quote your letter to the Prime Minister, that is, the economic co-ordination letter of 16 December, signed by the Minister of Finance Dr Mato Church. "On a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Croatian highways d.o.o. on the rebalancing of the maintenance plan and the rehabilitation of highways for 2003, and on the basis of requests from the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction, Classes and so on, the number of the Ministry of Finance has been giving the following opinion since 11 December. The plan for construction, maintenance and rehabilitation of highways is directly linked to the financial plan of the Croatian highways, and according to the Budget Law, extra budget users, including Croatian highways, are included in the consolidated budget of the state. The rebalancing of the out-of- budget user's plan also means an amendment to the consolidated budget of the State which, according to Article 30(5). The law is passed by the Croatian Parliament. According to Article 24(6), the agreement on the financial plan and that is the essence of the agreement on the financial plan of the extra budget user is given by the Croatian Parliament together with the state budget." So I'm asking you now. Since you sent this to the Co-ordination and Government, on the basis of which the Government has decided after the Croatian voter has decided that there is also a change of government, which is why the Government made a decision on December 18th contrary to your warning that this should be taken by the Croatian Parliament, which we all do know, which is unnecessary in particular to say, and here I quote your letter to the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u880	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative of Shime Lucin earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u881	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The imprecise allegations by Mr. Prime Minister that this government has failed to keep its promises, a pardon the previous government. I don't think the Prime Minister can give such a flat-rate assessment, because if she hasn't fulfilled her promises, she has to make a statement that hasn't fulfilled her promises. Just like he did, you said in general. Just like he said this government has fulfilled all its promises so far. I could list a number of things that this government has already given up in relation to the program that it listed, let's say what I know, let's say you're going to change the Department of the Interior Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u882	Comrade Lucin, please. ...be specific, I ask all MPs to correct precisely the specific and precise incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u883	But I don't think I can correct the exact quote when the prime minister says that the former government hasn't fulfilled its promise. Which one? How much? And that this one filled it all out. In a month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u884	I mean, we made it clear that the Prime Minister was talking about VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u885	No, it's not. No, no, it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u886	Yeah, I said you didn't keep your promises. And I quote one of your promises, which is a reduction in VAT rates. The value added tax that you said in the election campaign that you would reduce it to 17% and then four years later you haven't heard or wanted to hear about it. And if I said it on the cobwebs, I'm building on it, whenever I say something, I'll say it specifically what I mean. And I don't want to spread the debate because we're running away from the topic, I think this is an important topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u887	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Mato Churchvenac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u888	Mr. Prime Minister read here the memo the Ministry of Finance sent to the government. However, he read it as if it were a definitive final position of the finance ministry. We, please, have come to some new knowledge in harmonising attitudes in the government. I guess that's not funny to you. On top of that, the finance minister, if he is good at the ministers' demands, will always initially become a sharp guard and say no. Only if they convince him of any further arguments, will he accept it. And we could discuss it extensively now, but this is not the topic of discussing it. And it's not right to bring it out here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u889	The Prime Minister again, on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u890	Mr. Representative. Will you say that the Ministry of Finance sent a letter to the government and then gave up the debate, if I understand you well in coordination or for new knowledge? If that's the information and the debate, I'm asking you to tell me what it's all about. Did you send a new letter or is there only one we have? That's the first question. And the second question, could it have been based on a debate between ministers, could the law you are quoting that this was supposed to go to the Parliament? And that she couldn't decide the government, she could decide the Parliament. That's your quote. On the basis of what knowledge during the interview, were you in the Government to change that position, or on what basis did you go past the law? So I'm not saying that, I agree with you that in the government's practice the minister can come with one, with one attitude to change it and that the decision can, in the end, be better but not in terms of changing the law. It is a legal obligation as you warn, and it is a good thing that you warned, it is a legal obligation to discuss it with the Parliament, and it cannot be decided by the government. And the government is, I repeat again. When we caught up about it, I thought we'd discuss it tomorrow, and it was, but, but, but today you said here that you sent a letter and after meeting and new knowledge that you changed your mind. But you can't change it because the law is very clear. Yes, the law, that's what the Croatian Parliament is discussing. And the Parliament can make a decision about it and it can't make a government no matter what the minister thinks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u891	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Mr. Representative Mato Church. And before that, MP Miroslav Rožic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague, Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u892	Thank you very much, Mr. President, please kindly that, in fact, this has turned into replicas and replicas, a replica of correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u893	Col. Rožić please state the article of the Rules of Procedure that you hold to be... He's hurt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u894	The article of the Rules of Procedure that I am to state to you is, just an hour, an hour, the right of the Proposer, which is the article of the Rules of Procedure which speaks of the right of the Proposer to always speak but not in a way that corresponds to the replicas of incorrect allegations. Well, I mean, it's actually turned this into a debate, that's to change the replica between the former finance minister and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u895	A colleague of Rosic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u896	Okay, I'll let you know if you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u897	Article 145(5) The Rules of Procedure make it clear that a representative of the Government and the Proposer may provide explanations throughout the debate, answer questions, objections and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u898	But it doesn't say Mr. President that he can, that he can speak to the corrections of incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u899	All right, all right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u900	Well, no, we've never had such a practice before.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u901	He can answer the words and he can talk. He can speak, it's both in the Rules of Procedure and in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u902	And now what will Mr. Churchman correct the incorrect allegations that? From the previous debate for the third time?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u903	You got it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u904	He's not gonna fix anything Mr. Sanader said right now in this debate but in the first one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u905	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u906	So, for the third time, you'll be reporting for the correcting of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u907	He can answer, he has the right to report and correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u908	Three times the same?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u909	Not the same, it can correct an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u910	All right, all right. We'll be proposing, too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u911	Well, of course you will be. The esteemed representative of the Mato Church is correcting an incorrect allegation. But please, colleagues and colleagues really go correcting the incorrect allegations. I think the MP is obliged to quote under 1st incorrect quote, quote which is an incorrect quote and then correct it. Please, let's all stick with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u912	Mr. President, I'm asking you to protect me in that, because that's exactly what I've been doing all along. The incorrect allegation that I am correcting is that the opposite of the law to which it is called, according to which it was to go to the Parliament of the Government, has made a decision. I argue this is incorrect because all legislative factors have concluded that, according to the Roads Act, road construction programs are being set up. And that the inter-annual dynamic of executing those roads is a thing that doesn't have to go to the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u913	Thank you for the nice correction of the incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Ivica Racan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u914	Mr. President, I am correcting Mr. Sanader's alleged Croatian Prime Minister, that tomorrow this issue will be clarified and will not be subject to politicisation. Unfortunately, the president of the Croatian government killed himself because he opened the issue here. And I've opened up a debate on this issue, and I'm merely expressing this gesture and the behavior of the Prime Minister's regret.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u915	Thank you very much. I'd like to now if you allow me to welcome our guests to the gallery. They will also make students of the Economic and Commercial School of Vinkovac who will follow up on a part of the debate. A fellow representative of Sima Lučin's injury to the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u916	Mr. President, I believe that the article of Rules of Procedure 144 has been injured because the author and the pronoun spoke not only about the essence and be a problem but actually in the spirit of pre-election speeches and campaigns held by one cobbler wider pledoies. And you didn't warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u917	Col. Lucin, Article 144. The Rules of Procedure discusses the draft law on first reading of the law. So which includes the opening statement, the general discussion and the text, therefore, is not about what you were saying. Yeah. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u918	Mr. President, I have previously raised a plate for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure have been injured by MP Ivica Racan. Article 209(2) I will read it for all MPs and for the dignity of this Assembly and for this Rules of Procedure which are still valid. I'm quoting. If a representative asks for a word to correct an incorrect quote, the chairman gives him his word as soon as he finishes speaking to the person who made the statement. This is important. In his speech, the MP must limit himself to a correction otherwise, the president will take away his word, and the representative's speech cannot last longer than 1 minute. Mr. President, you have violated this article 209. And in particular, MP Ivica Racan, because he did not correct anything, but commented on the opinion, though he said he would not agree tomorrow with the Croatian Prime Minister. According to the Rules of Procedure, that's unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u919	Thank you very much. Please, I am really trying to hold a session democratically in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. He had big problems and respected Tomcic, a colleague like former Parliament president and all the leaders with these dissidents, which is a correction of an incorrect quote which is a correction to a factual claim. And it's a correction and a controversy of opinion. Let's move on. Please. We will continue to discuss the clubs, on behalf of the club of the participants of the Croatian Party of Retired President of the Club, respected representative Josip Sudec. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u920	Honored ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the Croatian Party of Retired Party club estimated this proposal to be the first step in reforming the tax system. We're pleased with the proposal to cut the retention rate. We think this delay period will be used for additional monitoring analyses and perhaps different and more positive solutions. We positively assess the transition to the fulfillment of the pre-election guarantees, we hope that the other guarantees given will be met as well. And we are especially looking forward to having this reduction step in favour of raising standards. Especially older retirement populations and all citizens. We discussed the club and other possible solutions but the club decided to support this solution because any solution that has not been analysed or that we have no proof that it would be better than what is now proposed. We'll take this as a suggestion. With this proposal, the consumer comes into the focus of the market. His growing needs and unfortunately limited purchasing power. I tell traders that with more traffic and less price difference, they will gain the same profit. Thus, it is not a high profit or a high margin and a high profit result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u921	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Now the word has a representative of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u922	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP has also indicated a reduction in VAT in its election programme. But the SDP is not in favour of the proposed proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Why not, for the proposal that's on our benches today. For reasons that two percentage reductions in VAT will not satisfy anyone or all the users of the state budget because it is less money in the state budget, but not final consumption. Why? Well, because 2% of VAT cuts won't have any effect even if traders and lower prices by 2%. Even then, they would not significantly reduce prices and the user or the final consumer would not feel it. Let's just take an average pension of 1,000 and 7 hundred kuna. If we spent it all then it was only 27 kuna a month spending, only 27. Therefore, we do not achieve what we want and what we announce is an attempt to raise the standard. Why aren't we getting there? Well, because the most sensitive social category won't feel the effects. I must also express my regret that today you do not have a SDP proposal which is also addressed to the parliamentary procedure, so we will probably meet at the next session after the government's opinion with our proposal. Why? Because it is precisely the SDP's proposal that if we are already going to reduce VAT and if we estimate that we can bear the burden of reducing income in the state budget to give it to the social category because we propose to introduce at least one inter-step and what we can assess to be an incentive for the economy and tourism. Because tourism on the world stage is a world market and a reduction in VAT will strengthen competition power in the fight with I would say Italy, Spain, Greece and other countries in the Mediterranean. That's what we think then. An effect that may be less satisfying in view of the reduction in revenues in the state budget but certainly gain effects for one economy which is otherwise not a characteristic of this type of tax, but also for the social category because we have proposed to reduce and introduce the rates to food and I would say consumption for children up to 7 years old. If we estimate that this is something lower, I would say that the implementation of the VAT proposal can also increase the category of children to 15 years of age. At that moment, we can also say that we achieve this feeling of satisfaction. Tourism economy, or let's define what it is, whether it's just an offer of accommodation and food, or maybe it's an offer of some services in tourism. The feeling that they will be more competitive, that they may be able to raise prices, that they can achieve higher incomes, that they can invest in development. The feeling that the state, the government, the Parliament is thinking about the tourism economy. But secondly, that the citizen does not have such a meaningless price reduction, but if he buys food, if the social category is that feeling, it is a pleasure that the price will fall maybe 10 percent if we introduce an inter-step is something that is then social policy, consumer satisfaction and they feel that they will have the effect of such tax change. And that is why I think that if we already approach thinking about reducing VAT, it is important to achieve the effects. Expecting traders to change prices if they drop 2% is unrealistic. Competition among traders is enormous. The margins have already been significantly reduced and will continue to decrease further. Therefore, these 2% are not so important in the commercial margin policy that we can expect the consumer to feel, however, I would say the effects of a 2% reduction. And that's what we don't want to achieve because then we're not helping the economy. Because VAT changes are not economic-oriented taxes, and we consumers depend on the good will of the trader. And the government itself that gives up 3 billion incomes, 3 and a half billion incomes depends on the goodwill of traders, and those in competitive battles around the margins won't look much at these 2%. And it's important to point out. I'd still say a few more words about the economy. The Croatian economy needs a well-designed and economic policy, and part of it is tax policy. We are now quick to enter into a debate about VAT, and we do not know before we make contributions, what we do with contributions. Why do we make contributions? Well, because if we spend part of the budget on a 2% reduction in VAT, which is unlikely to have an effect on the consumer, we will hardly be able to think seriously about reducing the contribution rate. And we know that the rates of contributions are the cause of Croatian economy incompetence. It is said that the cost of working in Croatia is high, that this is why we are uncompetitive, that this is why we have export problems. It is not a problem to pay the net, but it is a problem to impose, especially to contribute. Therefore, we are also expecting a debate on contributions. If we spend our budgets quickly here, they won't have enough space. But it is not only a question of strengthening the competitiveness of the economy by reducing the tax on contributions but it may be a redistribution because in this way they can grow and partially pay, if we reduce our contributions and not have to go all the way and the benefit of entrepreneurs. Therefore, a far more important tax and far more important, I would say, the debate in tax policy awaits us about the contribution. So let's be careful when we talk about VAT costs. We try to talk about the social note all the time. If the question of social note here is and there was one proposal announced by the CNS saying we should try to raise the untaxable part. And then we will allow citizens really social categories of lower incomes to generate higher incomes because less taxes will be paid, so they will be more able to buy and grow their standard. So we're talking about that social sensitivity. As we can see, there's a lot ahead of us to discuss tax policy this year, and I'd say, for our entire term of office. And we're making a quick decision about 2% of the taxes that no one will ever feel. Neither the economy nor the very small assumption that it will feel the final consumer and that it will affect consumer standards. What is characteristic, and I will point out that precisely because of this social sensitivity, the difference between the EU country and each other has a few feet or a couple of steps. Ten countries now entering the first round all have intersteps. Let's deal with this seriously. The interstep is important because at this point we are solving social problems and at this point we will have to say that we have raised living standards, especially pensioners, because a 10% reduction in price means something to the products that he is sure to buy. Not the one who buys expensive cars. Why cut him 2% of his taxes? We don't need to cut him down. He doesn't need to be reduced. But to a pensioner, a low-average worker is important to reduce 10% of the price and we can do it with a mediocre rate. So let us try to follow the countries of the European Union. We're part of those countries tomorrow, part of that Union. Why should we be the other country that won't have a step in between? It's always been a story, it's an expensive system, it's a problem, it's a problem of introduction. No, I don't. We have already slowly prepared the Croatian administration for new technologies, new opportunities, we are already far more ready to do so at all costs and, I would say, technical problems apply. And it's time to talk about it seriously. And so perhaps that part of the transitional period for preparing the second or inter-steps is the possibility that we should prepare this around New Year's Eve administration. So, we estimate that a far better feeling would be for both consumers and businessmen, but also for those of us who think there will be less income in the state budget, a proposal for an interrelationship. And we say that depending on what goods they are in the inter-step, which are the lives of our children at the rate. We can always have a lower income to the maximum of what is proposed by the Government or less, depending on what is estimated. So let me finally try to say something political. That's right, in 1999, and I as a candidate in the election talked about the 17% rate instead of the 22nd. And also a good part of SDP's representatives. But in the 4 years before, we estimated that our goal was to raise the economy, raise salaries, and instead of cutting one tax that wasn't exactly, I would say, the most just, we went to a reduction in the rate of contributions, we went to raising the non-taxable part. Because we have estimated that it is better to protect the weaker property categories of our citizens and that pensioners and low-income workers, and on the other hand, that was precisely the reason that with smaller rates of contribution we are affecting wage growth and wages have grown, but also the growth of the economy. What's important is whether we're going to achieve 5% growth this year is very important. Because with this reduction, if there is no 5% growth, there will be conditions that we are seriously considering whether this law will apply next year if it goes with this change. And that is why, regardless of what someone says in the election, we have a promise at the first session and now we have a proposal ahead of us. But those of us who decide about him should say how high-quality it is. And for what we're saying, let's try to mezelize this proposal, change it into something else, and we'll have effects. And we will have the effects whether there are inter-steps, whether there is an untaxable share of income, because it is a social policy, and at this point we need to raise the standard of socially endangered citizens, pensioners and workers with lower incomes or payments. That is why I believe that despite the election promises made by the party in power and the current government, I think that this proposal can be modelled and that in these discussions I need to assess the quality of the proposed and other proposals that will be held at the next session.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u923	I thank Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. The word is on behalf of the proposer, Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u924	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I must say at the beginning of something that the European Union's intensities are towards reducing the tax rate and introducing one rate of value added tax, which is the intensity of the tax policy of the European Union countries. But I have to intervene in some things, firstly when it came to making this Act and the proposal on value added tax did not work out with Croatia reaching the ceiling regarding the income side of the budget. We consider this a clear indication of VAT revenues in the summer months, we all like to boast when we talk about the results of our tourist season, how the revenues from tourism have grown from 3 billion and something else since 2000 to $8 billion in 2003, let's say that somewhere around a billion and something else is due to the decline of dollars, but very interesting that the strongest month after the charge of the value added revenue should be 7 and 8 because then the most tourists in Croatia, however, the 8th month is only at 9th place for VAT when you watch the ranked months of collection. It is therefore very interesting to look at the second thing, in early 2002 the VAT collection at the Croatian border was 55% today, it is 72%, and this shows most clearly what the situation of the Croatian economy is and what economic policy has been going on in the past two years. I think that if more than 70% of the goods originating in imports are sold on the Croatian market then it best shows what the situation in the economy is, I think that indicator should offer us some other topics for discussion. The fact that there will be no effect in the economy reduction in VAT rate we forgot one thing is that the biggest impact other than consumption that was 4% of GDP growth in 2002 has investments from the state in municipal infrastructure, both states and local self-government units. As you know, local self-government units are not in the VAT system, therefore, the VAT cannot be rejected as a pre-tax. Therefore, a 2% reduction in VAT on all investments in the country opens up the possibility for local self-government units by 2% more investment in next year. And you have to count on it if the state is at this point the biggest investor and if the state is to create a nuclearus for the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia, then we cannot say that 2% of the increased investment in municipal infrastructure will not affect the growth of the economy. It's also very interesting to look at another data, the actual VAT revenue of 99 was 19 billion and 800, the VAT revenues in 2003 were 28 billion 100, all the time we've heard that we've reduced the state's consumption. If 99th was room for 5% of these points of VAT cuts, when VAT revenue was 8 and a half billion away, then it's very interesting that today when revenues are up 8 and a half billion dollars we can't talk about VAT cuts. Also, I think by listening to the debate, I think that today if I were to suggest a VAT rate to someone in the House, 25% would probably get a round of applause because it would ensure revenue in the budget, but when we talk about differentiated VAT rates, then it has to be said how much they cost. Likewise, when talking about the differentiated VAT rate from tourism, then it is clear what is meant by the zero VAT rate in tourism introduced three years ago, whether it remains or is proposed to rise to 11%. If we assume that tourism income was the same as it was in 2002 and that it was almost 100% in 2003, then it turns out if zero rates are abolished and everything is placed at a differentiated rate of 11% of VAT that with that basis, the loss in the budget, as I quote here, is more than the loss of 2%. So, when we talk about the compatibility of individual proposals, then their financial effects should be compromised, but as regards differentiated rates in tourism and nutrition were proposals for the past four years, so no one wanted to listen to them, but all parties who are today criticising the 2% tax cuts before the start of the election campaign proposed to reduce the VAT rate then went to a differentiated rate. So, I repeat what I said, the investments of the local self-government unit, the state of municipal infrastructure, with the basis of the reduction in VAT rate of 2% will increase in the next year 2% and without the renewal of the infrastructure, without creating a precondition for the economic development of local self-government units, we cannot even talk about the quality economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u925	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Representative Mato Arlovic reported to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u926	Madam Vice-President, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is not the correct statement by Mr. Minister that the country's intensities of the Euorphic Union are to introduce one step. In addition to Denmark in the countries of the European Union, all other countries have a higher rate and I will point out that Belgium has at least 21, another 3 reduced rates and one of them, and from 1.6 and 12%, Luxembourg at the rate of 15% 3, 6 and 12%, Germany at a general rate of 7%, between a rate of 7%, France at a general rate of 19.6% reduced from 2.1 and 5.5%, in Italy up to 20 to, and a reduced rate of 4 and 10%, Great Britain from 17.5 to a reduced rate of 5% and so on, and as far as I know, I follow the legislation of the European Union countries, no one has initiated an amendment and an addition to the law to reduce the tax on additional value to reduce, abolish the rates and introduce one rate. That's the first one. And secondly, our Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the VAT Act zero rate, uh, replaces with a rate of 12% in tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u927	I thank you for the first part, which is a correction to the incorrect assumption. The word came from Mr. Mato Church, also the correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u928	I've been fixing this because it's been bothering me for a long time. It is alleged that VAT per government is proposed to decrease 2%. That's not true. It is proposed to reduce 2 points, which is 0.44%, and that is how much the impact is on the economy and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u929	Thank you. Mr. Shucker, on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u930	Thank you very much. Just do the public and do everything. The European Union's intensity to introduce two steps and to... The rate. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the intensity in all the financial circles you're talking about. And as for Mr. Church's correction, I'm always talking about reducing 2% points. And that's a 10% reduction. So let's not now, this one, twist something that isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u931	Thank you. Next, the next debate was registered by MP Gordan Jandrokovic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u932	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, honourable ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Since the beginning of its work, the new Croatian government has been one of the measures aimed at dissipating the economy and improving the standard of living of Croatian citizens, as well as reducing taxes and reforming the entire tax system. The draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act is the first step made in this direction and will therefore support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act. The key reason for such a view of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community is the assessment that this Law will positively affect the cost of living and have a positive impact on the growth of the standard of living of Croatian citizens. Why do we believe that assessment? Since the end consumer is the one who is ultimately carrying value added tax, and that, according to the first simulations, the state budget will be reduced by around 3 billion kuna, it is easy to conclude that the amount will remain in the hands of Croatian citizens. Therefore, by adopting this Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia directly invests 3 billion kunas in the growth of the standards of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Some say that only a change of law is not enough to really keep that amount to Croatian citizens but rather warns of the possibility of leaving that money to traders alone. It is true that the government cannot force someone to lower the price, but it thus opens that possibility and creates conditions for reducing prices which is its task. It is important to point out that the adoption of the law in question should also be accompanied by a public incentive for traders to actually cut the price by that amount. So far experience but also increasing competition between traders has guaranteed that traders will use a reduction in value added tax to cheaper the prices of their goods and make it more accessible to Croatian customers. Furthermore, the Croatian Democratic Community's club supports the proposal's view that the value added tax reduction will have multiple macroeconomic effects. In the first row, reducing price levels, improving the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and reducing the grey economy. We also support the applicant's announcement that it will improve the system of collection and supervision, thus ensuring an increase in tax discipline and an increase in tax revenue as a compensation for the fall in tax revenues due to the reduction in tax rates. I would remind that some of the former ruling coalition members also announced a reduction in VAT rates, but did not have the courage and desire to take the move. The new Croatian government is beginning to realize what it has announced, and we feel that most of the objections are purely political and are not based on real arguments. It is important to stress that the government's decision to reduce the tax rate to an additional value is only the first step in reforming the overall tax system that will make it fully compatible with the tax systems of developed European countries. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax because it considers it: 1st start of tax system reform, 2nd measure which will positively affect the growth of the standard of living of Croatian citizens and 3rd measure that will have positive macroeconomic effects. Reduce the level of prices, improve the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and reduce the grey economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u933	I thank you, Mr. Representative. Now it's on behalf of the HNS Club PGS Mr. Representative Radimir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u934	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, a quote from the government's assessment of the situation, which is related to the Bill's proposal on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, which reads: “In view of the current application of the value added tax system, it can be said that its positive sides, neutrality in business business, promotion of exports, promotion of exports, reduction of the grey economy, and betrayal of this tax form have been confirmed. I think there's a consensus in both the professional and the political public that everything I've read is true. It is indeed a tax that has fully confirmed all its quality and has contributed significantly to sound budget financing, and the extent we are talking about here is particularly significant and stability, because it is about transition countries, where fiscal discipline has not yet been fully implemented and where a whole series of tax burdens that countries with highly developed data systems, institutions, control and collection instruments do not yet exist in Croatia, an example of property tax that does not have a record yet, and one of the major sources. So here we are talking about a particularly important tax for a specific country such as Croatia in European terms as other transition countries are specific and still very sensitive with income creation, filling their budgets. This is about two-thirds of the tax revenue, it's about 30% of all budget revenues. In fact, as you were able to determine yourself, 27 billion came from the VAT in 2003 out of 44 as much as all tax duties have been entered into the budget. So today we're discussing a law that would reduce the revenue side by about 3 billion, which, of course, doesn't seem so bad if we look at the country as a whole, we have, it directs 87 billion kuna. However, all those who led the country know that this is simply not fundamentally true. The state really through the government, the ministries discusses and disposes of 5.6 billion in full, all other fixed costs. Salaries, pensions, electricity, water, credit payments, everything you and your family have as defined... So we are essentially discussing a very small amount, and that amount is a deficit, and the one we are discussing is still a deficit in this country, the truth is less and less every year in the last 4 years, but still a deficit. [[You don't understand.]] And of that amount, which is at all the basis for economic growth, the instrument for the influence of the state, of that amount which is also the basis for some social interventions, we are trying to cut off half of ourselves right now in a way that I find it difficult to prove and explain. In fact, we're doing it the moment we don't have a budget for this year, let alone the budget for next year. We're really jumping into a swimming pool right now with 15 feet of high trampoline without anyone checking to see if there's water in the pool. True God has made a small shift, and then we won't jump right now, but we'll wait a year, but even then, we still don't know if there's water. But we're making a predetermined decision. As promised in the campaign, we'll cut the VAT, we'll make our promises come true, so what happens? Of course, this tax that we're talking about is extremely important, and because these two points are also important to say here, these two points are just as close as all the amounts we get from the biggest next tax, and that's on oil derivatives and more than any other amount for any other tax, so you see what I'm talking about. At first glance, 2% is nothing. And that's where we have to remember one tax system rule. The tax system rule says that, if at any rate possible, and it is almost never possible, it is necessary and necessary for tax to be pleasant, that on many small points everywhere it is possible to take something, not to feel too much, and that the state gets much out of it. It's the best one tax can do. Of course, the worst thing a tax can do is, the state loses a lot without anyone feeling anything. First of all, it's very difficult. And if this other thing were very easy, it would prove this bill. That's not a problem at all. For 95% of Croatian citizens, the key criterion is the salary and union sausage published seven days ago, 5 thousand 295 kuna for a four-member family and I think it is richly dimensioned. This law removes 86 kuna, so 21.50 kuna per person of a four-member family in that basket. If you ever get to the consumer and come. Of course, it won't come, there's no dispute about it because let's not be afraid or accidentally think that the calls type don't keep 2% or lower prices or return the prices of bread and so on, that these are solutions for the economy of a country. I mean, it's not worth the serious comment, of course. This may have been a solution in 1954 but today the solution of course is market relations, a match, all that market economy mechanisms only recognise. There's no deal, it's not a question, it's not a Red Cross. This is a serious competition. So what's this about? It's a tax, as Minister Schuker has pointed out publicly, which is 75 percent on the border, 25% at home in this country with the kind of economy he has. So 2 points off means for 75% of the goods sold here to facilitate imports, boost imports and consumption from imports, further kill the competitiveness of this country. Who? For the benefit of the merchants? To citizens never. So who's normal here?- I'm sorry. So who's the main interest in bringing it down? Well, the team they're exporting here and the ones they're importing here. So what do you think Slovenija raised from 19 to 21. If it really wants to boost competitiveness and the economy is being encouraged in other ways that we will have opportunities to talk about here, we have already handed down such laws here in the procedure. There's a way to make sure there's water in the pool, in other words, if we find that budget revenues are enough for us to allow ourselves to be downloaded on the side of tax burdens. What is particularly important here is the fact that, of course, this spiral accident, the increase of that consumption, especially the imports of the openings, of course and the increase of the ino-long additional fire with the IMF,... The deficit and everything we face seriously and there is a consensus between the opposition and the position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, of course active social policy and its effects are not addressed there. This is where Mr. Linic mentioned it, I'd just draw it. People all grow up both parties and states. We're all terribly smart at puberty. We all know everything and we know better than our fathers or the older ones. And then it's interesting when we get to age 25, then we realize that all of a sudden our fathers are smart and their attitudes are fine. Here, they started to be smart. If we think about it a little bit more, then we'll realize that we're adults, that we've faced the truths of life and that we've actually come to the views of our fathers. I expected the HDZ government to already have that experience of growing up. I was aware of the fact that when our government came, it had no experience and made a mistake. The HNS didn't make it in this campaign but in that campaign and the HNS offered a reduction in VAT not as important but also as HNS. But when he faced reality, when he faced the fact that we had increased... But only after we've established it, not by heart, not in advance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After we found that we had 2 billion increases and that was 2 points of VAT at the time, we found that we had 2 points of increased budget inflow and that we could drop 2% of the VAT we made that decision, we wrote that decision. She even leaked to the public without our wish that after the analysis we would say let's stop, let's see, let's remember what I said earlier and let's think about whether from the point of view of the country's interest it's smarter and spend 2 billion in some other way or pick up political points, not to say demagogue, but political points, we made a promise. What did we do? By 2 billion we reduced the tax burden but not through VAT. We swapped that for 2 plus 2 on the burden of entrepreneurship and the economy. Health care, contributions and health care, retirement. The same money was less going into the budget but we increased competitiveness, increased employment, raised the profitability of our companies, and since then we have done so since 1.7.2000. And of course, all those who wanted and could and could have afforded not only to invest in new jobs, technology, etc., could have turned it into wages, of course, because the space of entrepreneurs to turn it into wages and we all know it. There are no serious people here from the economy who don't know that we made that promise about reducing VAT but not through VAT, but through something that really contributes. Of course we didn't stop at that. We've charged more than 1% of the economy by about 1%, increased the original funding of local self-government by what we've done in mountainous and mountainous areas. What we did on PPDS is areas of special state concern. With only 50-100% increase in original funding, their wake-up call. Here you go, gentlemen. So that's how the government is acting in our opinion. And that's what we need to talk about here. We understand the messages in the political campaign, but of course it's not the end of the election. Now we need to start seriously thinking about where we're going. And of course I hope so.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u935	Time, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u936	Thank you, here. Of course, I hope that this government too will seriously consider and withdraw quality decisions. I suggest that both SDP proposals and HNS proposals be seriously considered. If there's room, we go to those solutions that, with 2X less, let's say, the HNS proposal, for 2X less resources, have twice the impact.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u937	Time please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u938	And I can start using it right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u939	Thank you very much. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Shuker. Excuse me, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u940	In a number of incorrect allegations that Mr. Cacic tried to give us through a political, political lecture on how to cut taxes, he said that HDZ had made a political decision to cut VAT from 22% to 20%, which is incorrect and unaccounted for. It was quite a break of the spear and computer and saw how these funds could be obtained to promise or guarantee that the VAT would be reduced from 22% to 20%. The other incorrect assumption that you've reduced VAT is really not even incorrect but let's not be, incorrectly, that you've reduced VAT in one other way. Well, Mr. Cupcake. So in Croatia, there are laws that prescribe exactly what taxes are and what those taxes you have reduced are related to. Not applicable to this category to which VAT applies. You've been cutting some other taxes. And that's honest. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u941	All right, Mr. Representative, don't get into a discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u942	But not exactly that tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u943	You're right. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u944	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I have to react to a series of flat and incorrect grades just because of the Croatian public. How contortional is in the statements that 2% will not affect anything but when I said the data that should really be some data on which we should all government and parliament imagine, which is that 75% of VAT is charged at the Croatian border. Then it's used as we encourage imports. So how are we going to encourage imports if we make it easier on the other side so we don't encourage anything? It's a contradiction. But I would tell you, Mr. Representative, that is, if I can say some more things, it turns out that this government is terribly unserious. That this government has not studied anything, that this government has not studied anything. However, in my first presentation, I am saying one other thing that we all need to think about. And that's that this country hasn't reached the ceiling of its fiscal charges. That a lot of money leaks past the state budget. You've seen the bread situation now. According to the State Inspectorate, 2 billion kuna goes past legal flows. Therefore, it is not necessary to reduce the VAT rate to reduce revenues to the state budget. The revenues will remain even higher than they are on the current level, only being collected in a different way. But that's why taking advantage of the quarry and other things has to be put under control. It should certainly be put under control. Because one who takes advantage of the natural resources of the Republic of Croatia needs to damage the budgets of the units of local self-government and state budget, and at the end of the day it needs to be allocated money so that this space that has been devastated tomorrow is sort of rescheduled and looks somehow. Well, it's one of the sources of income. And the other thing about spending on it was the talks at the beginning of the session, and I wouldn't want to be any longer, but some have already spent these 3 billion of the budgets they're talking about, which they care about so much that there will be a reduction and there are contracts for it. And I claim that the taxpayers' money past the decisions of this House of High has no right to spend in advance, and for that, as Minister of Finance, I will be very much in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u945	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged representative Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u946	Of course there will be a chance tomorrow to discuss what I heard at the beginning of the debate. Unfortunately, yes, regret is largely without arguments. By the way, it is true that VAT is, among other things, crucial and linked to economic growth. Fortunately, economic growth in 2004 has already been ensured by the fact that the closed funding contract. And by the time we get the budget somewhere at 4:00 and maybe even 5:00, we start working... 7. that key part will already be finished. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u947	Please correct. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u948	So you do. So my correction is that it's not true that anything spent, on the contrary, has been passed by the government in the campaign suffered a whole series of attacks on something left by this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u949	Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u950	Thank you. And to Mr. Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u951	You can't argue with Mr. Jarnjak, you can't correct the quote, you can only.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u952	Oh, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u953	You can't correct the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u954	We didn't cut the VAT. We're a load.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u955	Please, Mr. Representative, don't argue. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Matešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u956	Madam Vice-President, Mr Cacic has repeatedly injured Rule 209(2) and you have not responded in time, so I ask you to follow the Rules of Procedure in the future. The incorrect assumption was not corrected but a debate was launched on something quite different.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u957	Thank you, Mr. Representative. I warned your predecessor. Before we continue the debate, allow me to welcome together students and professors of the University of Ljudevit Guy School in Osijek. I need to say one more thing, they're students who hand out the ambition to return arms, signed by students, teachers of primary and secondary schools in the area of the city of Osijek. [[Applause]] At a peaceful protest rally, return your weapons. It is held on October 17, 2003 on the birthday of a tragically deceased student named Mark Srtan. They've collected 10931 signatures. One more time. Welcome and congratulations. [[Applause]] We're continuing the debate. Excuse me, you ministers wanted to react. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u958	Madam Vice President, gentlemen, I really don't know if the documents this government found were valid or not. When those who signed them claim that's not true. I own a supervisory board document signed by the esteemed representative Cacic, saying that the total expenditure of a billion and 120 million will be made in 2004. Since someone for some kind of plan that this House has brought, they can pass a notice over the next year under these laws, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u959	Thank you for correcting the incorrect quote, Mr. Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u960	All documents are accurate and accurate, and absolutely legal. There is something and, of course, in full agreement with the IMF, within the deficit that we were allowed to do. So 2%. There's something called contractine... one thing is contract obligations, and the other is current payments. But we'll talk about it tomorrow, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u961	You've corrected the quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u962	Mr. Representative. The Croatian Parliament adopted a financial plan for Croatian highways and said 5 billion and 400 million works could be carried out in 2003. If so, why did the last session increase the financial plan by a billion and 700 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u963	Mr. Minister, I'm warning you, you can't ask questions and stick to the subject. The subject is the proposal for a tax law on additional value.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u964	Madam Vice President, I'm sorry, but then I'd beg the same if we had a relationship in front of the government with the MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u965	Absolutely. Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u966	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, you've kind of corrected it. Article 210 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, which the speaker says, can only talk about the topic under discussion and according to the established agenda, if the speaker gets away from the agenda theme, the president will warn him to stick to the agenda. Since you've already done that, I'm just actually explaining why I asked you to do this to hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u967	Thank you very much. There was another correction to the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u968	On the trail of what you said, I'm not opening any further discussion. The Parliament has not brought an eye on how much it will be built but on how much it will be paid. Thank you. It's two different things, as everyone knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u969	Thank you. Next up for debate on behalf of the club HSLSA DCa Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u970	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Ministers of the Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Dear students. Maybe it's easier for me as a liberal to identify myself immediately and speak in this one, I'd say artificially created doubt, about whether and how to reduce the tax to an additional value. An artificially created doubt where we have on one side someone who says it's possible to do it in the overall structure of fiscal incomes. And on the other hand, part of the opposition or part of the parties that I would say would often also take great care of the budget. So they warn that this could raise questions about the implementation of the country's financial obligations. It makes it easier for me because if a liberal can speak outright, all taxes that are possible to cut should be reduced. It's something we don't doubt at all. Taxes are only a necessary evil for us, a financial burden on citizens, which to that extent is acceptable to which they finance the general public services of the state and society. In such a way that everyone can be guaranteed his fundamental rights, his fundamental freedoms, every person. And if the state raises funds to guarantee it through its public service, then taxes are useful to us. Apart from all the utalitarism, of course. Then taxes are acceptable. If the state kills to hyperprofect public spending. In order to finance what does not belong to the state, but perhaps before civil society, so that it can finance both a bulky and expensive and inefficient apparatus, then it is certainly invaluable for us and... but also unnecessary and useless to collect high taxes. [[You don't understand.]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that before the 2nd, 3rd January 2000 that we were then about to become ruling parties and assume responsibility for state leadership, we all represented the idea of reducing VAT. We have to admit that to ourselves. Perhaps when we reached out, or when we dragged our hand into the state register, we realized that she was even more scarce than we had previously thought. But the fact is, we must openly admit it to the Croatian public that we wanted to cut VAT. However, there is also the responsibility of my party, which, along with its coalition partner, even suggested that the SDP be reduced to 17%. Therefore, today it should be said that these gentlemen, the new government with Minister Shucker, has the courage and, in his view of the overall fiscal structure, wants to do so. So why say it in advance today, it's impossible, it won't work, we'll all be short sleeves? If gentlemen have the courage to do so, I think that all of us are primarily honest with ourselves, and also with the Croatian public we should support it. I repeat once again as a liberal, quite certainly convinced that in the end-end we all share the belief here that the state is ours and too big and too expensive, that public spending is too high. Therefore, anything that contributes primarily to the reduction of fiscal burdens on public spending, the reduction of this bulky and overpriced apparatus certainly needs to be supported. The more competitiveness compared to transition countries, the more we are about 8 to 9% of points above, above the burden of the country in transition, which the state imposes on citizens in transition countries. So that's another reason to support it, not to mention that the share of public spending in us in gross domestic product is something that we have even more convincing than competitive transition countries and that when we look at these parameters, the order is about 10 to 15% we are uncompetitive and public spending is higher than in other transition countries. Therefore, any reduction, including this reduction in VAT, contributes to making the state a little poorer. I'll remind you that when I spoke about the first budget that was brought to the coalition in 2000, I said that I hoped it would be a consumer budget. I can see that even now the minister will have to bring in a budget of time is a coincidence in the corset, so I'd really like to finally start with a useful budget that a little bit, today these lifts and similar physical ones to call it that kind of way to weaken the body today is fashionable. Well, let's get that fat and the lady the state is covered in, and let's take it off sometime. Well, it's time to get started. The first proposal is to reduce VAT. So, finally, let's be thrifty in the use of, let's be fast and unmovable and, above all, start with our own appetites, too much of the state's appetites. Of course, there is also a question of where and how to make up for it. I don't think there's anything more natural than making up for the better tax control of those taxes that have already been ordered by ladies and gentlemen, which we don't even collect. We all know that the gray economy is too high. We all know what a tax evac is in this country. I hope that the reduction in VAT and these 2 billion missing to which good counterpart Cacic points will still force the state. We stayed here on one side without two billion. Then let's finally take what we have to take, not to let it happen like it happened, unfortunately, and in our power that we went to bargain with the taxpayers. Well, that's nowhere to be found. We've been guessing, ladies and gentlemen, and all those who haven't paid their taxes have actually been rewarded because we've made it possible for them to deny 25%, or to charge them a total debt of 25%. It's something the state can't do and I hope that this brief or this acronym in the state budget for 2 and something billion kuna will force a simple state to finally start collecting its taxes. When children are here who have indeed shown civil courage, and even brains more than we who have constantly delayed the deadline for handing over weapons, it is one proof that nothing is right in this country and their petition points to it, and of course we should also be reminded that nothing is unfortunately or that very little is wrong and that there are very little tax collection and all those donations that we have already written to entrepreneurs and our citizens. And it is indeed time for someone to show the will and strong inspection-control machinism to which these taxes will be collected. As a liberal, of course, I wish maybe the state had gone out with other provisions towards the citizens. We are aware and exactly what my colleagues have said before me that it may have been better if not right away, but at least in the package or at least to announce Mr. Minister, to announce that taxes, i.e. income issues and all those other mandatory contributions will be reduced. We must understand that Croatia is not competitive. Croatia is not competitive because of high wage burdens. When I recently received the Mayor of Trnava for a friendly town from Slovakia, which will host or host the largest green field investment in Europe next year, it is the construction of a car factory of 7,000 new jobs in Slovakia near Trnava. And when we talked, they said - your basic problem is a terrible high labour price. Payments on Croatia are 100%. There are about 45% in Slovakia. It is quite clear that they are much more competitive and therefore I think, Mr. Minister, that you here have to show yourself and say when the state administration plans to reduce high wage payments because, unfortunately, because of the neutral character of VAT and because of the fact that it is actually neutral in relation to the entrepreneur and that it is downgraded to the consumer and the buyer, that the effect of competition with this will not be established without the reduction and these other tax duties. Equally, I think it would be good to consider what some colleagues have already proposed. To increase the untaxable base, because then the effect of reducing any tax will be, ladies and gentlemen, more socially fair, and I think in such social conditions we must seek those changes in the tax system and the reduction of fiscal burden that will lead to a more socially fair distribution compared to, above all, the purchasing power of the population. I therefore call on you on behalf of the Croatian Socialliberal Party of the Democratic Centre to support the VAT reduction with my request, perhaps asking Mr. Minister to announce himself or at least make himself visible when it could be accessed by these other charges. I feel the same way that the state apparatus is too expensive to pay to be ineffective and not collect taxes. The fact is that we may be exposed to the risk of filling the budget, and when Mr. Cacic used a metaphor of jumping into an empty pool, I would say that our citizens have been swimming on dry land for four years anyway, so it is therefore time for us to go down to that dry pool and see how it is possible to relieve the citizens, relieve entrepreneurs, increase the purchasing power of the population, but not question the normal charge of the budget. Therefore, on behalf of HSLS and DC and as a liberal, I support the reduction of VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u971	I thank you, Mr. Representative. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Ivanish's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u972	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would have corrected two incorrect allegations. The first construction was artificially created dilemma. I think that today we are discussing a proposal to cut the VAT by 2 points and that the debate so far, from the prime minister to yours, dear colleague Chehok, has shown that towards the goal, which is a hypothetically set goal, an increase in standards but at the same time increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, we can come very likely from 3 to 3 ways. The government is proposing a reduction in VAT but it is clear that these effects can also be achieved by increasing the non-taxable part of income...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u973	No, no, I'm sorry, don't lead the debate, correct the incorrect assumption itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u974	...so, the second is a reduction in the contribution rate. Thus, artificially created dilemma is not an accurate structure. This dilemma really exists because it can be achieved in three different ways. The other thing that is incorrect is that those who talk about it take care of standards, etc. That concern was expressed in the opening statement by the prime minister himself, saying there is concern whether and how much of this percentage will come to citizens. Therefore, no one has to worry, but they argue responsibly. I don't think it's any use to this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u975	Thank you, Mr. Representative. The second correction is incorrectly alleged, Mr. Korenik's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u976	Mr Chehok said in his presentation, quote: “The opposition has great concern for the budget”. I can't speak for other parties, but we at the SDP club are really concerned about the revenues of the state budget. Therefore, this is not a concern; it is indeed a concern in which the financial state will function this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u977	I thank you, Mr. Representative. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chehok's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u978	I like to be corrected, but indeed Mr. Nikola isn't right. So it wasn't, it wasn't a correction, it was his debate. And I didn't say that all hyne, I said that sometimes it seems to be a little bit of a budget concern, which I think in some stages is quite visible.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u979	Mr. Chehok, and this was neither a breach of the Rules of Procedure nor an article of the Rules of Procedure that you are correcting, which is injured, nor the manner in which the Rules of Procedure was injured, but given that there was a slightly more tolerated atmosphere about it. Please calm down in the assembly room. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u980	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The topic is too serious to be used for political bickering especially by the former and current government. That's why I think this debate needs to be cleared maximum of any political connotations and tried to oppose different professional concepts. This is about professional concepts. One thinks like this, others think like that, but in any case, here is the profession and that the macroeconomic and economic profession must play a crucial role. The HSS is for every measure aimed at dissipating citizens, reducing their cost of life, for those measures that will encourage the development of the domestic economy, to increase its competitiveness. If this were really possible with this proposal ahead of us, in particular Article 1, then the HSS would be very happy to accept it. In the opinion of the HSS, this is not possible and it is simply incorrect, and this VAT reduction from 22% to 20% in the HSS we also assess the harmful, conceptually harmful to the state budget and the total state finances. So, the HSS will not accept this law, not even in the first reading, but we are open to expert discussions, to determine the concepts that will give this society and its citizens the greatest benefit. The first thesis mentioned here is the reduction of prices, disbursements of citizens in terms of increasing their purchasing power and mentioning a metaphor of investing in citizens 3 billion kunas, so the accent is on citizens, which is normal and commendable, and, of course, in this social and economic situation should primarily take care of how to relieve home budgets and, especially those most socially threatened, to make it easier for them to survive each month. But we're convinced in the HSS our analysis is saying that out of these 3 billion kunas, which are probably not 3 billion, they're probably slightly smaller, citizens won't see or feel anything, if they're going to feel anything then it's going to be crumbs. Why is that? Let's try to analyze it. The retailing of daily supplies, every household uses and buys very different items daily, most of our citizens actually use their entire budget on very cheap goods, on daily consumption, and it is far from buying expensive goods, equipment, furniture, yachts, cars to use expensive services etc. And regardless of the information Mr. Minister tells us that 75% of VAT is charged on customs, there is no charge for what a man uses daily in his household, in those 75% is what is available only to a small part of the citizens or is available to businesses and state administration. These 2% will not significantly affect the improvement of the home budgets of the team before it will not even be realised particularly in those goods and services that our citizens are interested in, the most socially endangered. This effect will be lost to the good part in the maze of retail prices, control, it is impossible to be objectively controlled that all goods and services will be reduced by 2% especially those of lower value. Secondly, good higher values won't affect investing in citizens 3 billion because citizens don't benefit from it, those who are richer, and those who do business use it. Services that also have a high percentage of participation in the total VAT system will also simply be lost through competition, and for this citizens are not at all interested because they are in services, especially those large-scale services too few ordinary citizens. To conclude this first part of the exposure, if the purpose was to reduce the cost of citizens, to allow their home budget to work easier, it is missed, the citizens will be left without it, the citizens will really have only a minimum. Secondly, this proposal directly generates the current budget deficit. The 3 billion kunas that are in this legislative proposal have no substitute, we have heard something from the Prime Minister, we have heard something from the finance minister, for such serious and large procedures in this bill must write the deficit will be replaced from here and there, and not just from the quarry, and the question of whether from the quarry, the charges of exploitation of the quarry should be compensated for this, this question of certain development aspects, there are more effective means to compensate for precisely in the tax section for these three billion. The increase in the current budget deficit will directly endanger exactly what is financed from the budget, these are salaries, these are pensions, these are social expenditures, in order for the state to do so again the state will have to borrow and actually come up with a spiral of permanent borrowing in order to meet those fundamental functions of the state budget, if we want our citizens to benefit from all of this. What I'm saying is it wouldn't be like that if this bill were very exact in which these three billion will settle. And how to ensure that these three billion really are invested in citizens, not traders, not in large systems, not in those that you haven't really spoken a single word about, you're talking about investing 3 billion in citizens and those who need it most for social reasons, they'll least see it. Third, the third reason is the neutral character of value added tax, and the reduction of its rate does not achieve the desired incentive of domestic economy growth. The lower VAT rate in the Croatian conditions means a certain incentive for consumption growth, which is largely made up of imported goods, therefore lower VAT is directly stimulated and imported. It would be good to consider whether this moment is good for the state economy, the state budget, to even discuss reducing the single VAT rate and perhaps to discuss reducing the profit tax rate, income, social taxes, so health and pension insurance. We are for one modified variant, a reduction in VAT but not according to this model and we are for reducing income tax, income tax and social contributions but to make a correct calculation that we know exactly what our citizens are waiting for. In order for this to be credible as I say, the HSS will try to make a certain contribution to how out of this situation can be derived and which model, by our understanding, could provide adequate solutions and efficient solutions. In our understanding, the VAT system of this country, in this economic situation, must have at least three functions. First, the first function of stability and security of income and inflow into the state budget so that the state can finance its needs. Second, a development function, for those economic branches that the state will eventually prefer, based on its strategic definitions. And third, the social function, of course not least, but such a neutral VAT, it's nowhere to be social. He just doesn't have a social, social note. How can we ensure stability and security of the flow of income into the state budget? By retaining this rate of 22% to most of the goods and services, 80%, 75%, it is necessary to make correct calculations and increased excise duties as a substitution for what we will lose at a base rate of 22% and which we will eventually lose through the introduction of the benefited or, or zero rates. There's still room for maneuvers on the excises. I'm a smoker. I smoke the cheapest cigarettes in Europe. I want to smoke the same cigarettes that Europe pays. I'm not a drunk, but when I have a drink, I want to pay him just as much as I pay in Europe. I don't have to drink it, I don't have to smoke it, I don't have to use expensive, luxurious goods, but if I'm committed to it, then I have to pay twice as much as I pay now. So there's excise duty, there's a lot of room. How are we going to ensure the development aspect of the VAT system? By introducing the benefited rates for those economic branches that the government has determined should be encouraged and particularly stimulated. In our understanding, it's tourism, it's agriculture, of course, and the food industry. By introducing some kind of interrelationship, whether it's 10, 11 or 12% doesn't matter at all, according to the HSS concept, it's 11% of these economic branches would become more competitive anyway, but the introduction of the benefited rate has a direct social impact. In that case, food is cheaper for our citizens 11%. And all that would be at the benefit rate would be directly controlled cheaper for the citizens of 11%. Those 2% are gonna get lost, they're gonna disappear, they're not gonna be gone. So we stand for the same effects, for a balanced budget, but for the direct social benefit of those who need it the most. In this way, domestic production is also protected, especially agricultural and food production, provided that we are able to find a solution which is not easy to accept that the benefited rate is applied at domestic production and the basic rate of 22% on imported products. You’ll tell me about the WTO, the WTO provisions I know all about, but I claim that there are solutions that wheat imported from Hungary can have VAT on the border 22% and domestic wheat 11%. Such solutions exist. In this way we directly protect domestic production and encourage domestic production. This would therefore make a strong contribution to these economic branches, above all to tourism that would become more competitive, agriculture and food industries that would be more competitive, and citizens would benefit from agriculture and the food industry directly because these supplies would be cheaper by 11% less tax. Third, pure social component. I've already told you what kind of influence an unfettered rate would have. When we talk about the social component, then we need to think about a zero tax rate. Not only on bread, not only on milk, not only on drugs and orthopedic aids, not only on scientific journals, but on one basket of daily supplies of this people where 80% of households actually spend 90% of their home budget on that basket. In order to determine that, it will have to sit at the same table of governments, trade unions. It will have to open on the Economic and Social Council a serious debate that goes into that, at that zero rate. That complete, all of them, all of them, may there be 10 who spend every day our household in their own, in their own house. They'd actually be tax-free. Those who are the poorest would benefit most from that. Those who have more money since they are focused on others, on other services and other services that would not be in that basket may pay 11 or 22% of taxes. In this way we would have realised all 3 effects and safe overflow of resources into the State budget and development component for those economic branches that we want to prefer and stimulate, but also a strong social effect for those who need it most. Of these 2% Croatian citizens will have nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u981	I thank you, Mr. Representative. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Secretary Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u982	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, gentlemen, Madam Representatives, very interesting suggestions but very interesting that when the government proposes to reduce the VAT rate, then it causes a problem in state finances, causes a deficit, increases the responsibility even if the Prime Minister and I said we don't talk about it at all. But in these very interesting suggestions, we would have led the system to incompetence. Another thing about what would be the reaction, what is the difference between customs duties or increased tax rates relative to some product being introduced if we already have rules of play that we adopted by entering the WTO. But the system in which food of domestic origin would be taxed at 11% and the food of import origin 22%, I would only remind myself of the VAT accounting technique. On entry into the border, 22% is paid, then the goods charge the margin and return to the market with a new account. Who will control what is imported and what is native? Which would be a mess on the market that's so messy because we were talking about a mess that the government is about bread and wheat, we said that in this situation that we now have where 2 billion kunas are past regular state flows, so we have to introduce a stamp to even introduce order. And what I would like to stress, this is the first step towards tax reform. Because the tax system of the Republic of Croatia has been resolute, it has destroyed, and it simply as it is not in the function of those in which it should be, is not in the function of those to whom it should be helped, so it does not have its social function. And in order to be able to talk about tax reform, then we need to determine what this country's fiscal capacity is, both its economies and its citizens. To talk about reducing one tax to increase the other tax, by imposing, excise duties are precisely those of which it is spoken, tobacco excise duties, alcohol excise duties and oil excise duties are probably the largest unknown to this country. Everyone now to ask all the experts who deal with this job, no one will tell you how real they are in Croatia can charge the excise duty of tobacco, oil derivatives and alcohol. and I will not, as Minister of Finance, step away from what I was saying here as a representative, which is that in Croatia according to official indicators is very healthy tourism, when people enter Croatia stop drinking, stop smoking, because these are indicators in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. So one basic principle when it comes to tax policy is that by expanding the tax base, there are preconditions for tax cuts. Therefore, this first step of tax reform this year should also create preconditions for reducing taxes that directly, and contributions that directly affect labour prices, by strengthening the collection of state budget revenues. The question is, at this point, is it accurate that 40% of employees in Croatia receive one salary and the other accounts for contributions? Or if you look at the payment of contributions to the state budget, we went to reform the pension system two years ago, and nearly half of Croatian citizens entered the second pillar of pension, which is the basis of their pension base was reduced by a quarter, practically reduced by 20%. So, if we look, if the state finances are neat, then it was to be expected, given that the smaller number of those who pay that contribution, that the contribution to the pension budget next year would be less, if not the same as last year. But something very interesting happened, that the contribution went far beyond real, actually nominal wage growth. This clearly indicates that one part of the employee receives one salary, and the other part is calculated in full. So that's the problem we have to solve. On the other hand, at the moment the biggest problem of state finances is the pension and health fund deficits, which are covered by tax revenues. So, if we're talking about tax reform, then she's the one we have to... And we can't say that on the one hand the proposal to cut the VAT rate from someone else has no direct, it's neutral, it has no direct impact on the economy. [[You don't understand.]] And on the other hand, if the VAT world has neutral tax terminology anywhere, my proposal has an impact on the economy. If it's neutral, it's neutral. But today I said one here thesis that is far the most important to me. If we are going to deal with the real problems of the Republic of Croatia, it is that such a reduction of 2% increases the possibility of investing that countries so unit of local self-government by 2%, because I tell them the value added tax does not return because they are not in the VAT system. I would also like to mention that when you look at the state budget of what the cost of accounting is, these material costs will be 2% less VAT, so from that base will remain one part of the funds. But if we talk exclusively about this law in this sense that this will produce a deficit in the state budget, then I think it's simply a lack of understanding of this bill. Well, it's not this bill of law to question state finances. But we think based on an analysis that there's a possibility, I'm not... said if there are many of these natural treasures of the Republic of Croatia which are unfortunately used beyond all controls. [[You don't understand.]] We all know that very well. Let's go down the coast of Sava, and you'll see what the terrain looks like, that a pebble has been taken out that no one has paid any income. So it's a wish. Also those 100 and some other jury accounts and sub-accounts in the ministries that were, the desire to introduce order into public finances creates a prerequisite that we all ultimately pay less taxes. And it's good to have different thoughts, maybe a very high-quality proposal will come out of it. But the Priory reject one, and the potential of another. And another thing, I'd like to tell you something else. In 96, when VAT was introduced to Croatia, it was also discussed among other things. Then it was said that it would be, let's say Croatia, not if it wasn't a transition country without the consequences of the war, it would be a normal rate of about 18,19%. But it has been suggested to us from outsiders to 2% for this transformation from socialism and communism to some kind of market economy, so for these costs of transition, and give 2% for restoring the direct costs we have, indirect ones we have since the war. We must not forget that every year we have about 8 billion kuna in our budget as a direct consequence of the war. and it is said by these estimates that somewhere in 2007, in 2008, there will be a prerequisite for Croatia's VAT rate to be 18%. Is now, by that estimate, half the time has come to say that we can reduce 1% from one base to another. So the government and the Priory don't reject this or that proposal. We believe, since we still have all the relevant indicators, that at this point this proposal, which is the most concise and the proposal that goes towards the countries of the European Union, which is the introduction of two steps and that it is going towards one rate of value added tax because believe Mr. Representative this, this proposal is technically practically impossible to implement. And on the other hand, I would like to point out that we have obviously forgotten that law on outstanding outstanding claims, where here in this high home, it has been debated that, past the Croatian budget in the past six, seven years, it has gone somewhere around 24-25 billion kuna and our urgency is that in the next few years, those 24-25 billion are reduced to a minimum and that in this way we create a prerequisite in the first step for the reduction of VAT and after that for the reform of income tax, income tax and contributions, and above all for the reform of the tax system for the financing of local self-government units because we still feel that we remain at the lowest level there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u983	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Representative Tomcic came forward to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u984	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President! I am correcting the assumption that it would not be a mess in the system if two tax rates were applied to domestic food production and to import. A whole series of developed European countries that have less reason to protect domestic production than Croatia has this model worked out and are doing so. Therefore, it is not good to talk about it in public, but we simply need to find a wise subtle way to protect domestic production. He's got a model, Mr. Minister. Another incorrect allegation was not my goal to deny VAT neutrality, but neutrality is, we all know, neutral for entrepreneurs but is not neutral for those who seek a place in competition and is not neutral for citizens. The reduction of VAT to zero rates for certain products and to the benefit of certain products again benefits directly from home budgets. That's what I was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u985	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Thank you very much. Now it's HSP's Club of Representatives. On behalf of the club, Mr. Agent Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u986	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Your Honor, Mr. Minister! I would like to make the views of the HSP Representatives' Club on this extremely important topic discussed by the party's top. So it's a VAT reduction from 22% to 20%. It is, of course, one of the pre-election promises of the HDZ and we did not expect HDZ to try to realise in this term. The responsibility for its implementation in immersion falls on the ruling majority and the HSP in this respect must be clear and stressed that it is difficult to be against VAT reductions but it is equally difficult to ignore all the bad consequences of experiments in the tax system done without clear simulations. This decision to reduce VAT takes effect only next year. It's nothing unusual. VAT began to apply in 1999 under the 1995 law. So, for four years, it's been waiting for that. Therefore, it is not unusual that VAT will be reduced for two to three years, i.e. it is in a trend with the way VAT has been delivered. In its individual debate, Professor Letica will refer to the reduction of VAT from public finances and external debt, while counterpart Pero Kovacevic will look back at this VAT reduction from the aspect of the issue of collection and criminal provisions. I will devote myself in these 15 minutes to everything else. The key reason given in the explanation is the improvement of standards and the great cost of life for the widest layers of the public. However, our simulations say that it will indeed be very low, perhaps about 1%, with the fact that there is already zero VAT rates, 0% of VAT on bread, on milk, on medicines, on books. So, to all those who watch us on HTV, we can calmly say that the bread won't be cheap for this, that the milk won't be cheap for this, that the drugs won't be cheap for this, that the books won't be cheap for this because we already have a zero VAT rate. Moreover, the bread even accumulated when announcements were made that VAT would be reduced. I specifically mention this in order to make it clear to everyone that the prices of food products and prices are generally not formed in any market economy depending on how the tax changes itself but on how the supply and demand is changed or how each trader raises the price as long as the sale goes. So that's how much the price goes down for the VAT drop. We were looking for two years ago between the VAT rate for tourism. Prime Minister Sanader mentioned it, so make a counterproposal, here's our counterproposal. But we did make this counterproposal two years ago in a parliamentary debate and it's really interesting that the former government did not use that counterproposal to go between VAT rates for tourism and now after the elections they appear with a sensational idea of going to the introduction of VAT rates for tourism, so exactly what the HSP in this same assembly asked for two years ago. On the contrary to our ideas, the necessary VAT rate for organised tourist stays from abroad is introduced, so for all agency guests, so if you want to have a cheaper holiday in Croatia or if you are a Zagrebian, a fraud or a feeler and you want to come to the Adriatic, it is enough to pay your vacation in Sovići or Orasje, so beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia that this is all a total of 22% cheaper. Because you don't pay VAT. Croatians, of course, pay more. The experiment cost the Croatian state about 400 million kunas and was compensated for the introduction of desert excise duties. Beer tax went up by 120%, tobacco tax went up, alcohol, coffee. The losses were also covered by the introduction of compulsory insurance on cars, with the introduction of the tax on helmets, with everything. I say this very clearly so that when we went, when we went to introduce a zero VAT rate for a very limited part of the economy, therefore, only for agency guests that we had a budget deficit and that it was then covered by the introduction and invention of new excise duties. That's why all these slow experiments should be done very carefully, Mr. Minister, with good simulations and with a view to the tax system from the aspect of its stability and overallity. The VAT rate for tourism is otherwise not unusual in Europe. That's where everyone swears to the export economy. The fact is that there is a zero VAT rate for exports. And if we start to see tourism in this country as an export branch of the economy, then it's perfectly logical that we look at the possibility of introducing an inter-step. If you want it here, it's listed what the rate of tourism looks like, VAT in the countries of the European Union. I gave myself a hard time and made some charts. So it varies from country to country very much, you see Mr. Minister and the rest of you but everything moves on average between 5% and 15% of the maximum VAT rate of 25% has Denmark and Hungary but that Hungary has a 12% VAT rate of hotels. It's the same for food 12%. Only Denmark is firmly forming at a 25% rate without exceptions. Our neighbouring Austria, where we often see ourselves, has a basic rate of 20, is now proposed. The 10% rate for overnight stays in tourism and 10% food rates. All others, therefore, have a whole series of inter-steps and simply because when VAT was introduced to them, many simply shifted their tax rates to VAT rates. In Croatia, the situation was completely different. In Croatia, an ideal tax system was created with the help of German consultants, and at that time it went to the introduction of a VAT rate that was subsequently extended with exceptions. To make it clear to everyone how VAT affects employment and tourism revenues. Just enough to see this example from Ireland, you see, they started with VAT in tourism 18%, so they raised it to 23%, and then the employment in tourism fell. After that, they reduced it to 10% and finally 12%, leading to an increase in employment. Therefore, only one conclusion can be drawn from these very clear effects, which is that tourism requires an inter-stage VAT. And that's what I've been repeating all these two years in the Croatian Parliament. This does not have to be achieved by Mr. Minisre with the VAT rate in the beginning if this year and especially this year and next, there is a risk of a very large external debt that Croatia needs to repay both problems and uncertainty in filling the budget. But it can be done in the same way that it was born when VAT was introduced, which is so that I would say a virtual VAT rate for tourism of 10% through a 60 % VAT refund, so for trisame, so that half of the VAT paid to the hotel and private accommodation is returned to the hotel on the basis of payments from the previous year just to prepare the season. This would automatically show what the effects are, and this could automatically be considered with the burning, i.e. with greater competitiveness of Croatian tourism because indeed all our neighbours have, lower VAT rates than our famous 22%. The major shift in standard and this is World Bank advice is achieved in transition countries only through lower income tax. I hope so, too, in the HSP, we hope if you really go into tax reform, as you Mr. Ministers announce that we will soon see income tax reform with the introduction of 5 feet as our neighbours have and as has a good share of European countries. I would also refer to another problem here and that is the question of Article 25 and Article 29. The VAT law. Since I was guests of the Parliament, the Croatian guest service in the craftsman's chamber, so the Croatian catering company asked me to present, here I am doing, a request to your ministry that in the amendments to the VAT law, the two articles, Article 25 and Article 29 discuss the punishment of those who do not pay VAT. They don't mind that there are penalties, however, the point is that Article 29 speaks about paying a fine of up to half a million kuna for it, while Article 25 gives opportunities.../ No overlaps/...current labour ban. We believe that it is necessary to impose a degree of punishment in this regard and that this must be done in those who do not pay VAT by not paying the VAT. So for the first breach of money, for the second or third closure. Also, what I'm warning here is that when we talk about tax reform that her goals from 95th to today I believe in HSP the same. And this is to encourage investment, encourage work to encourage recruitment and savings. Taxing consumption, especially the one that is based on an import. Encourage exports, and finally start treating tourism as exports. but also encourage education and information of the Croatian nation. And that is why HSPe has kept on saying for two years in this assembly that school books must be included in that zero rate, that all schools are washing and information equipment is doing faster information on Croatia. These are specific moves, Mr. Minister, and this reduction is quite well-intentioned and I'm telling you very questionable by its effect. And it can cause a boomerang effect through increases in excise duties and actually a decline in our citizens' standards. With these concerns I conclude this opening part with my colleagues will develop all other aspects of this VAT reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u987	Thank you very much, Mr. Tadic. There is one correction to the incorrect alleged representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u988	I thank Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of counterpart Tadic's representative who said he even collected the bread for the announcement of a VAT reduction. This is a completely incorrect quote the bread producers have said which reasons, that is the price of flour, and non-conformity of prices in recent years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u989	Thank you very much. Before receiving a word from the club representative, who has been reported, I would like to inform you that the president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Ivan Jarnjak, called a meeting of the Committee at 13.3 minutes in Chamber 233 on the second floor. Also, the chairman of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, Mr Davorko Vidovic, also called today's session of the Committee at 13.30 in Hall 84. That's what it says to me here. Working social policy and health care. Then for this session of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at 13.30 in Hall 84. Then the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports president of the Committee Davorko Vidovic also called a session today at 1400 hours in Hall 133. Also, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Vlado Jukic, called the Committee on War Veterans to the meeting at 13:30 in hall 149. Today. And finally the chairman of the Committee on European Integration, Mr. Neven Mimica, called a meeting of the Committee, at 13:30 in Hall 202. We're going back to work. The word is on behalf of Club Libre Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u990	Have a nice Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. I will, first of course, comment on what the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance have said in the introduction to this bill and then, on behalf of the Libre Club, I will make some of my views on the proposal ei commentary of this legislative proposal. First of all, he would refer to all these announcements that the Prime Minister spoke more about, about how the possible deficit in the budget can be compensated with a fundamental finding, in fact, that all that he was saying is hardly a matter of value added tax law. It's about the functioning of the state as a whole. And of course no one well-intentioned can welcome the use of natural raw materials, the business of reported businesses, the reduction of the gray economy. The introduction of the discipline of reducing administration is all it is, of course, to be welcomed. But I don't see what is the direct link between these measures, with the value added tax law, and if it has to be done then it should be done independently of whether or not it is proposed to reduce the tax issue of citizens or the income of the state. I would also like to comment on what was said about the Prime Minister calling on traders that the jacket was decided by the government or by the state... his income in this part by 2%, or 2%, then he calls on traders to also do so so that the final effect for the citizens is 4%. [[no switch]] This can, of course, be hailed as polite communication between the Prime Minister and other entities, but unfortunately, nothing more. We know how economic life works not only with us, but there is no such business ethics anywhere else. Therefore, whether or not the price will fall, despite good communication and positive announcements, this will primarily depend on their judgment, interest, competition, and no one's call from the top. And in that sense, well said one of the directors of a company who felt called when he said - we thank the Prime Minister for calling, but we are not responsible to the Government of the Republic of Croatia or to the Prime Minister, we are responsible to our shareholders, so we will do what we think will be in their interest. That's how it's gonna be, except for that decent communication, and it's better if she's like that than it's a fight. The immediate benefit of that, of course, will not be. However, some of the moves discussed here and already announced by the government amongsts and other drafts of the law are actually talking about acting by raising doubts about this measure by introducing discipline into public finances. We will have this parliamentary session of the bill on maternity leave for mothers with three and more children. So when you look at the introduction of that law, then the cost assessment of the law is given to those mothers who have two or three children, but in terms of the two, the three and the four. Thus, it is concluded that the state’s new cost of savings will be around 10 million kuna. Indirectly, it's said. Of course it has nothing to do with each other. The number of children subject to this Law on maternity leave of mothers with three and more children is incomparably higher compared to the number of twos or threes for which, according to our legal decisions, there is now the possibility of additional maternity leave. Therefore, it is an example that if we do not know what we want to do, we do not introduce order into public finances. And I call upon the Government of the Republic of Croatia... This was the practice of all governments of the Republic of Croatia on a higher or smaller scale to seek what can be quantified, and this can be quantified to do so. [[Because of the technique, you don't understand.]] We can only put order into public finances if we know about what we do when we pass some laws and when we get into those public finances. Therefore, this is certainly not an example of the future introduction of order into public finances. Of course we should also welcome what Mr. Sanader was saying about reducing the administration. He calls it a linear reduction perspective. He's probably thinking of a depth reduction in the administration. But what we've had a chance to see so far is not reducing the administration. So far, we've got an increase in administration. The reduction of ministries in itself is not unfortunately a reduction in red tape. If it were so, it would be easy to do. So far, we only have an increase in the number of state secretaries and the number of government employees with an increase in the number of state secretaries is higher than it was before because of the effect of reducing the number of ministers, and that's all we have so far. I, of course, welcome that possibility, or announcement. It was repeated today by the Prime Minister to go to a reduction in the administration. But I repeat it is a very "hard nut", a much harder job than it is to change three small laws and reduce the number of ministers, and the increase of state secretaries here is only symbolic, and only in this context do I mention it. It is therefore difficult to imagine how the state will manage to secure 3 billion kunas in order to prevent the negative effects of reducing revenue from value added tax. Some things that happened at the time of the government's formation say exactly the opposite. The promises made in the days, then the contracts signed with the parties that make up the parliamentary majority today, must be hard on rough estimates of more than billions of kuna. There will be, of course, an opportunity for these promises, i.e. those agreements to be quantified. That's what the Club of Libre will follow closely. But surely more than a billion kunas of new commitments of the Republic of Croatia's budget are being made. And I don't understand what measures other than these in principle, which were recently spoken by states, will be able to reduce their consumption so as not to enter into a new borrowing and borrowing crisis, as was the case here if, of course, they want to have a solid state budget, and of course, the state has to function. These are therefore general remarks and comments on what has been said by the government's representatives so far. In that sense, I would like to make a few proposals to the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Minister and his associates. The big thing that VAT should do in the overall question is the question of the collection of that tax when billing. Today, the value added tax is paid by legal persons when invoiced and it is a terrible burden on all legal persons and it would be a big deal if any Croatian government, but why wouldn't it do this if they weren't already previous, if they were able to do so that the value added tax is paid about from its collection, and not a few months before the invoice, which forces the legal persons of our economic operators, and the entities to accumulate big money which, of course, could be accumulated by the state, and that they, therefore, pay when they actually get that income, they could go into investment. And of course, with measures that would significantly reduce our economy's liquidity with all the negative effects that indifference carries with it. It's about a billion kuna in the budget that's going to come out because obligations are going to be fulfilled not on a day, so, invoices but two or three months later, and they can be passed on. It hasn't happened yet, it's possible to bridge. So rather than accumulate that money by legal entities and our businessmen, let that money accumulate the state if it already has the possibility of having a comfortable situation in the budget. And of course I call on the Minister of Finance to work on this solution. On behalf of the Club Libre, at a time when we are in the second reading of the law, we will also support it with our amendments. With regard to the zero rate, I would point to one illogicality, so if it can be corrected, I think that would be good, and it's a zero rate of medication. However, the zero rate for medicinal products is not exposed to medicines that are not listed in the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. We assume that this list is logical, but it is both economical and economical. Somewhere there is a situation where a man, who is sick not only doesn't have this medicine on the list of our institutions, therefore he has to pay him, but also on this drug that isn't a luxury issue, the issue of wrong assessment, but the question of life and death is sometimes, he also has to pay extra taxes on added value. If that could change, I think that would be good. Of course, it should not be done in general but rather try to do so exactly where people who really need this medicine will be able to get cheaper if the country is not already on the list of the Croatian Health Insurance Authority. Finally, it should be said, of course, that the Club LIBRE will prepare the state for this law which should enter into force on 1 January of the following year. How to implement the plan to introduce order into public finances, which I was just talking about, and how to implement the reduction of the administration. But I note that the great lack of this law is that he doesn't really touch into decentralisation at all. I am pleased that the finance minister announced on the same time that the reform of the local self-government unit's tax system will be a topic to be addressed by the ministry. However, we welcome that, it is a big thing, but it should be noted that there is no such dimension in this law. And I think definitely that, speaking about the government's programme at the first session of the Croatian Parliament in this session, I said that it is time for Croatia to take the path of discharging local self-government units, in terms of, of course, higher incomes and higher powers. And that it is time that after 12 or 14 years of the new Croatian state it is time to move into this very demanding but inevitable and modern step of decentralisation and strengthening local self-government, including, of course, regional self-government. And finally, before the red light is turned on, I think all of these goals that the government has set in proposing this law, that it is simpler, easier, more direct and without danger can be achieved by changing income tax. Then it will not depend on the good will of traders, it will have direct social effects, and it will also have an impact, a direct impact on the development of the Croatian economy. In this respect, the club LIBRE, together with the HNS club, proposed to amend the Income Tax Act, which will be discussed when the law comes to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u991	Mr. Jozo Radoš, there is one correction, namely the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Franjo Matešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u992	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Rados, was injured by the Rules of Procedure, which states that the speaker can only talk about the subject under discussion, and in his speech there were mainly topics on other laws and other areas. And I ask you also to consume item 2 which speaks if the speaker is away from the agenda theme, the chairman will warn him to stick to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u993	Thank you very much. So far, it has not been customary for them to narrow the subject too much, so we're going to be estimating from case to case. If there's been a drastic case like this, we'll intervene. I didn't find it necessary, I need that now, but anyway thanks for trying to focus. Mr. Radosh is also looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u994	Mr. Representative has injured the Rules of Procedure because he did not state the article by which I hurt the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u995	Yeah, he listed the article, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u996	...and in fact, the cited article is not on the trail of what that article is about to say. If the conditions were so strictly set, someone in the debate would be absolutely impossible to conduct the debate, and it is good that you are in that chair that you are sitting on and not a fellow representative if you keep such opinions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u997	So your violation of the Rules of Procedure, so he mentioned Article 210. So let's be wide, then let's get over this. Mr. Stjepan Bačić came forward to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u998	I'm correcting an incorrect assumption, my colleague said that medications that aren't on the drug list are a matter of life and death. That is not true, all medicines that are a matter of life and death are on the list of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u999	Thank you very much for your representative. You didn't lift it. Representative of the Government, Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1000	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just one little dyspression, the answer actually to this when paying a value added tax. We need to understand that we have signed some documents and that often EU guidelines require that the value added tax is paid on invoiced, not calculated value, therefore, that is the basic reason why no changes have been made, but I would like to say some more things. It's very interesting that when it comes to agreements with minorities, with pensioners to deal with very flat-rate estimates, I'd like someone to publicly say that it's against this kind of agreement with minorities, so let's make it public that it's against it and let it say how much it costs, that's one thing. The second thing, who is against reducing pensioners, actually not having the right to coordinate pensions according to salary growth, it's signed by agreement, something similar was in the old agreement. Therefore, talk about how these post-election agreements will cost Croatian taxpayers as much and as many billions as if these MPs in this House were not taxpayers, as if they were not citizens of the Republic of Croatia. As if HDZ had done something now radical and it is embarrassing what it has done and it will cost Croatian taxpayers so much and so much. If we are already talking about any agreements, then it is clear and loud to say what the agreement is, it will cost so much and so much, it will clearly say that the political party disagrees with that agreement and it is over. However, here, in the case of VAT, the post-election agreements will cost billions of taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia that it will create a hole in the budget, at least it is not correct. And as for changing tax laws, it's very interesting that in the entire morning in this debate one thesis is being made, this 2% will be harmful, it will reduce revenue in the budget, it will lead to deficits, but at the same time we are proposing another release, ladies and gentlemen every release costs, every release, every reduction of income in the state budget, we all have to be aware of that. Now, is that the basic percentages that we have said, the way we think that the budget of the Republic of Croatia can be filled, we believe, on the basis of our analysis, that they are as they are. The change in income tax, everyone forgets in this amendment that someone must also compensate for the funds to local self-government units, because the Income Tax Act, which is directly related to the Law on the financing of local self-government units, has a far greater impact on the budget of local self-government units than it will be on the state budget. However, what is the situation in the budgets of the units of local self-government, I think only the ones best know, so I said that this government needs to think about reforming the tax system, taxes that charge directly to local self-government units, and that is what I said this is the first step of tax reform that this government has to do, and that is why we honestly ladies and gentlemen need to see what will be the effect of those tax reliefs on income that were adopted last year, and what will actually be before last year, and that will only through the tax returns of citizens this year will see their real and positive and negative consequences so that they can then talk about some concrete reform regarding income tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1001	I thank Minister Šuker and now we are moving on to a ten-minute debate, the first in line is Commissioner Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1002	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Ministers, MPs and MPs. Indeed, a reduction in VAT has become a challenge of mythical proportions, of course the government wants to leave one impression of determination and responsibility to voters at the moment. Namely, it was one of HDZ's strongest pre-election promises and, of course, it is true that any announcement of a reduction in any tax burden to welcome applause. But as it usually happens, it's a lot easier to promise than to realize. First of all, I'm going to ask a formality question, why vacacio legis for a year, after all, it was an election promise we'll cut the VAT immediately, and not with this law once again comes to promise that this will happen in a year. Vacatio legis normally in legislative practice, so not only our countries, but all countries, this long for a year has its own meaning, has its own justification, when it comes to extremely complex procedures, when the systematic laws of a country change, and not here one almost in that technical sense very simple operation mathematically. Therefore, there is no excuse for this vacato legion to be a year old, the truth we have not heard today why an excuse in this regard but there was something in the media by the government about it but it simply is not an answer to that question. But let's go to the very core. As has been said here several times, but since it is otherwise the role of politicians to speak the truth, always and everywhere, and that every moment of time for truth should be particularly stressed that with a reduction like this, if the promised reduction happens next year if any changed circumstances do not happen again, it will not stimulate economic activity. It won't increase the tax base. It won't reduce the tax ejaculation. Nor will what is most important, the citizen will feel it in his pocket. And that's what to say. So there is no saying that it will get any results on what is just constantly being tried by the proposings or to convince the citizens that they will have any social political effects in the sphere. Because this promise of no, simply does not contribute to paying taxes in economic terms as it does, and requires the provision of Article 51. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to deploy as flatly as possible the tax burdens of our citizens and all according to the principle of equality and justice. First of all, I think that we will all agree on this VAT itself in its own nature is not an instrument of social policy, and neither is one of the more significant features of the instruments of economic policy, but, otherwise, through this tax, VAT has a way of being socially sensitive, and that is what the SDP Club in its law regarding this VAT reduction precisely differentiated rates it wants to contribute to, or obtain, precisely, such results. So in order to relieve themselves, they neutralized its basic shortcomings. that the tax is paid by more than one who has less. It's going to happen again and with a reduction like this. That's why it's necessary right at differentiated rates because otherwise it gets even more insensitive. Simply about that, it was also inadmissible, and that is what we wanted to avoid, or at least that's how the promoter says that the same rate pays, for example, on Armani's suit and on a child's shoe or on baby's milk. If we see our agenda and we see that we will soon discuss the extension of maternity benefits, all in order to be able to bring about an innovative population policy that this government is saying will take a number of measures. So this has just been an opportunity for such a differentiated rate or zero rate as suggested by the SDP Club, by zero rate on children's needs and up to 7 or 15 years, we can secure the home budget to be bigger because that's what parents charge each and every one of them at the same time. At the end of the day in the European Union, all member states except Denmark, with a general rate, have reduced rates for these very social political reasons, and that is to say, all the countries that have income per capita on a number of occasions more than that is unfortunately the case with us. So how justified is the promise of a VAT reduction that fills the state budget with an impressive 35% will be really interesting to see with concrete measures, not some abstract one, as we have today had the opportunity to hear from a motion that will settle, this, a deficit in the state budget. At the same time, he promises pensioners, which is quite all right, to increase various social benefits. In short, it is promised with a hat and a fist, and we all love the promise because we hope. But as far as it's possible, then it's possible to realize it. We can see that with such a legal proposal, there will be no such realization. So what we have here today, but I'm afraid that's how it's going to stay, that we have simply the real inflation of the promise. How to increase these non-taxable incomes, capital revenues? Therefore, a logical conclusion is made on the possibility that the promise of this VAT reduction is actually realised. I will simply repeat that this linear reduction, if at all happens next year, the pockets of Croatian citizens, who are again pompously repeated here today, will not be more difficult, but what there is no doubt, is that the state register will lose a lot, and the lack of it can hardly be quickly and easily compensated, especially if at this very moment we do not have concrete measures for it except for those general but phrases of the reduction of the state administration, and whenever we talk about it then the state administration is booming. I'm not going to tell you what my colleague Radosh used to say, which I totally agree with. What would be interesting to see, which is essentially what this opportunity is, can be pointed out, what is the government's economic policy? So there's still one big stranger to us. I think the professional public has something to say about this, but also international institutions that are not very impressed by these promises themselves, but are looking to see what concrete moves they are. So no further privatisation, corporate restructuring and so on. Something that's very important to all of us. So, no longer have the promises been watered down. And that's what to say. The delay, so the delay itself, with everything that has been said about the content itself, is one electoral failure of the citizens themselves, because it is said: “We will reduce it immediately.” True, today we of Mr. Prime Minister had the opportunity to hear on one of the corrections of the false assumption that in no case was it a promise, but a... If we look at any of our Croatian dictionaries, then we will see the verbs promise it means words to give someone hope or belief that something will happen. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Which is normal in all election campaigns. However, guarantee means an even higher degree of promise to take on for second responsibility. So who else would the government guarantee will come to this. That's what's left of the unknown too. So, we can say that here's one of the first strongest promises that didn't come to what was promised or guaranteed, which I say is an even higher degree of some promise and let me say, that it personally reminds me of Ezep's handcuff and birth, when the fox on the plate spread the porridge and offered birth, here's the rodeo, godfather, don't touch it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1003	I thank Mrs. Representatives. To correct the incorrect allegations we will first, the representative, Mr. Ivan Jarnjak, reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1004	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. She says colleague Marinovic has made a promise. That's why you're yelling at him. You say VATs do not affect economic policy and social status in the country. Is it possible that 28.1 billion revenue is important and does not have the greatest impact on the state's economic situation on social policy. Is it possible, you're saying that 3 billion is the tax on VAT that was collected in 2003. 28.1 billion, is it possible that 3 billion as much as possible through this denial of 2% of VAT, that 3 billion do not significantly affect the situation in the social policy of the Republic of Croatia, clearly provided that we all agree here and in the state that this really comes to a final consumer, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1005	Okay, thank you very much. In addition to correcting the incorrect allegations, Mrs. Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1006	Yes, Mr. President, I just wanted to tell you that I probably didn't think you were wrong when you said that VAT was unfairly related to social categories with smaller or higher incomes. I would just correct you and say that he's fixed and that he's proportional and that he refers to everything equally. So, the value added tax we all pay equally, not those with higher incomes less, and with lower value, so that there is no confusion in the public, nice please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1007	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Now it's Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec's turn for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1008	Mr. Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, when today's Prime Minister Mr. Sanader represented all this government and the program, he wrote and said something in part when talking about tax policy that I fully agree with. So, to continue the reform, he actually said that a complete reform of the tax system, which will be in the function of reviving production, is that the government is convinced that the reduction of taxes and overall tax system regulation will lead to cumulatively and over a certain period of time leading to an increase in economic activity. In fact, if we really want to really raise the standard of our citizens, if we want to give out of the budget social and other contributions, then we can ensure primarily the growth of production, i.e. in our conditions of larger investment in the economy. and since the second promise that has been made through the election campaign is that, at the beginning of such tax reform, it will start with a reduction in value added tax, we see today in this proposal which is ahead of us that it will not take effect until 1 January 2004. So I think it would be better if, in that period, if this had already come to our bench as a first reading, that we really had this whole second reading, as the Government's proposal said, tax system reform, that we know exactly what would happen to the Tax on Profit, what about the Income Tax Act, what about special sales taxes? At that time, we might be able to see more easily how, where citizens will be when it comes to value added tax, in what situation they will be employees who pay income tax and in what proportion there will be an economy that through this single recovery should actually increase the standard, increase investment in the economy, and increase state spending. I will not question how much this will affect the reduction of budget revenues. In which way budget revenues will be compensated or budget expenditure may be reduced. I think it's the responsibility of the legislator of this law. So I won't talk about it at all. But I think it would be good if we had that simulation in our first reading. For now, I can only accept this number that is being discussed that it is about 3 billion kunas that will be, as the explanation says, directly invested or invested in our citizens. However, I will try actually on a few examples of such simple mathematics to say what it really means for which category of citizens and for which category of consumption. It will be possible to draw the conclusion that if 3 billion kuna is involved in this amount, it will affect fewer revenues that will need to be found new sources, but I say in what I will talk about below shows that the effects that should be reflected on the home budgets of our citizens will not actually be achieved. I'm going to say that on an example of 100 kuna consumption because it's the simplest thing to do. The estimated rate of 22% of VAT in that retail price is slightly more than 18%. In other words, if you spend 100 kuna, you will pay about 18 kuna VAT. If we reduce it from 22% to 20% of the price reduction effect, it could be only 1.6 kuna. If you spend 20 kunas on a product, then that price reduction effect, or the tax itself, that would affect the price reduction, will be only 3 June. Let's try our colleagues and colleagues, see if it's exactly how traders go to cut prices just because we've reduced VAT by 2 indexes. In fact, it was also seen in countries that switched to the euro that when prices were rounding, they were always going to more rather than less. Therefore, most likely in a large number of products the effect will be zero. And if we have already decided on that, our spokeswoman of our club said that we also support it, that we should also go to this segment of value added tax in certain corrections and reductions when we say that we are willing to invest 3 billion kunas or give up those 3 billion kunas of this tax, then let us try to come to a solution that would actually be more just or in some way might affect that the effect of such VAT reductions is greater for those categories of citizens and for those families that spend more on those basic living and living foods. I'm surprised that a colleague from HSU said it was very acceptable to them and I'm going to say that for example, which refers to an average pension of a thousand and seven hundred kuna, so a pensioner who will spend a thousand and seven hundred kunas will have a monthly reduction if it comes to a price reduction of 27 kuna. We will talk more about our proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Value Added Tax when it comes to the agenda but we have proposed for a number of products that differentiated rate and I think that it will do nothing to disrupt the system and that it will not complicate it because that is what most countries have today. The tendency that is in the European Union is a tendency. My colleague Shuker himself says they're tendencies. No state has yet launched an initiative to move towards a unique rate. Why should we who will eventually become candidates to join the European Union in this year do so already? So if in this way as we suggest, the effect on the consumption of thousands and seven hundred kuna would still be around 140 kuna. I'll tell you a few more of these calculations. So if you spend at this rate 100 kuna, then you'll have a reduction in the price of 8.2 kuna. I think that's where traders would already have a moral obligation to go down. Furthermore, when we talk about that child consumption category, we suggest that VAT be abolished in general, so the rate is zero, so I'm going to give you an example here. Today, actually, shoes and clothing are among the most expensive for children. You can buy for adults at the sale. Unfortunately, for children very rarely. If you buy children's shoes from an average price of 300 kuna today you will pay 54 kuna value added tax in that price. If we stop that 22% rate, then we might buy a child's slipper along with those children's shoes. Therefore, there is a possibility that in these conditions when we do not have enough opportunity to distribute it in one better, socially acceptable way, through increased budget expenditure for some purposes, if we have established that we can give up 3 billion kunas of VAT revenue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1009	I thank the honourable representative. The word has been proposed by Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1010	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I didn't mean to open a different rate theme on purpose, but I think it's time to say something about it too. How differentiated is the rate of social justice. The differentiated rate is very problematic first that must define the products that they are. If you reduce all food products you can have this, for example, artichoke and green salad, both have a differentiated rate of 11%. Artichoku certainly cannot be taught by someone who has monthly incomes of 4-5 thousand kunas, but in the family basket the price of electricity, communals and all that will not be covered by the differentiated rate is quite included. The differentiated rate is obviously acceptable if you speak perhaps of 4.5 items like this for the public who are socially sensitive. However, if we are talking about the differentiated rate of nutrition, then there are hundreds of items that those with the lowest incomes or at the end of their mind are thinking about buying them because they have nothing to buy with. So the differentiated rate goes back to the one who has far higher incomes. And that's what we need to think about. It's a very expensive way of tracking and detecting what and how to tax. Just take it so you have fresh and canned fruit and vegetables. So you have to detect everything to tax with a differentiated rate. And it's not as simple as it seems. And those who have this tax system far longer than we have and those who have been our advisers when introducing a tax on extra value have advised us to go at one rate. But there's something else I'd like to say. It is said here that this government should practically now give full tax reform and that we can discuss it. Well, if there's not so much debt out of the budget, there aren't so many signed agreements, we're told here that this government signed some kind of agreements after the election. But also someone in... the election signed some agreements for which the conditions of stand by the arrangement were not met. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That created a direct cost in the state budget of one billion and one hundred million kuna. They also deny documents that have been signed neatly, which have passed the Croatian government but which have created a substantial financial commitment to the new government in the following year. Write down the financial document that obliges the next government, that next year, on the subject of what was done this year pay a billion and 100 kuna is at least ridiculous. To give 10 notes to the total amount of a billion kuna for something that this High House did not make a decision that could be foreseen in the budget at that time in the budget. Well, I think someone who's been at the head of some ministry would have to imagine it pretty well. Who can give a note without a cover? Who can spend more than this High House has made a decision? Well, I'm a little company, and when I need something else, then I'm a budget customer. So that's what we're talking about. And that's why it didn't come out with proposals from other tax laws. And I note the reform of the local self-government tax system. It's a very painful topic that's gonna have to be discussed here. But if we're going to talk about reducing VAT, that this proposal is bad just because it will reduce revenue in the budget 3 billion and my proposal, which also provides for certain benefits, will not reduce anything, is not good. Let's face two ideas, two concepts and come up with one positive solution. But I'm telling you, from experience, from talking to people who deal with it, the differentiated rate is far more socially unfair. So, because it gives opportunity to those who have more money to make more use of it. Because you know well if it's a social basket, today someone here said, a union 5200 kuna. According to our estimates, at this point you have about 300 thousand Croatian citizens who, according to this tax system, are not taxpayers of income tax. We have about a million pensioners who, under this current income tax law, are not taxpayers of income tax, are not taxpayers of income tax. Now, if we're going with this untaxable part, if the 300 thousand employees aren't affected by that tax system, is that just as socially sensitive or not? For behold today, one who has two children on over three thousand kunas does not pay even a kuna tax on income. What's worth more to him than the untaxable part of raising him as much as you want, he's not in tax returns. A million pensioners aren't in tax returns. I know it's effective to say let's raise the untaxable part to two thousand kunas and that, say it's a social program. But let's say that... Three hundred thousand Croats don't pay income tax. [[You don't understand.]] And then we can talk about tax reform, we can talk about her, her social sensitivity. I'm telling everyone for a full democratic right to come up with their proposal. But, gentlemen, I would also like to say for the sake of the Croatian public that any tax reduction if we set out to claim that the Croatian budget has reached a maximum cause for less revenue in the budget. Everyone. Therefore, it cannot be said that my differentiated rate does not cause any impact on the budget, but this reduction of 2% will lead to a threat to state finances. So both leads to a decrease in the budget. It's just a question, but I'd like to go back to the beginning of my debate. When VAT revenue was 19 billion, then we had room to cut 5% points, and today, when 28 billion, today the same ones who so eloquently advocated and assured Minister Skegru that there is room to cut 5% say there is no reduction by 2%. And then somewhere in some bush lies the truth and then it means there's no reduced consumption in the state. Because if the VAT-based revenues have increased... 8.5 billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If income from income tax and income tax are lower due to various tax burdens, only some 700 million compared to the 99th year means that those tax revenues have increased by 7.5 billion. We're talking about reducing consumption, then there's room to cut 5%, and today there's no room to cut by 25. When VAT was introduced, it was criticised that 8 billion kuna were sucked out of the Croatian economy. Well, if that's the case, isn't it analogy if we're reducing the VAT that we're paying back that money... economics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can't change rhetoric depending on how we fit at what point. But I'm saying, I'd only beg for this differentiated rate to say a thing called a real name. What will be affected by the differentiated rate goes in favour of those who have far greater incomes, who have far greater purchasing power, do not contribute to those who have little purchasing power, be assured.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1011	I would like to thank Minister Shuker for correcting the nettort, the distinguished representative Zgrebec reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1012	Minister Shuker, it's incorrect that we're against the cuts, you're the one behind me. It's incorrect that we're against a two-percent reduction. We say we don't question that it's three billion kunas. We don't question those offerings that are smaller. We're just saying that it's otherwise possible to deploy those three billion kunas. I didn't say that the disoriented rate is more socially acceptable, I just said that if you target yourself with a differentiated rate, it's listed in our bill, it can be otherwise or otherwise produced covered. Then she achieves her effect. It is certain that the different influence of VAT on those products will be 90 percent of their home budget compared to those that will spend ten or less of their home budget on such products. And the government shouldn't give up a proposal just because it's complicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1013	Please don't argue. The correcting of the incorrect allegations was presented by the distinguished representative Mrs Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1014	I thank Mr. Vice President, I have a need to correct Mr. Secretary's incorrect claim that the differentiated rate is extremely complicated. And besides, he also said that the differentiated rate certainly suits those with greater purchasing power. That system would be complicated but it's only complicated for those governments who don't know what they want. But if a clear goal is set and a clear strategy, then it is not a problem to go ahead and sort out the products at which a zero rate should come, at which the rate should come from 10 or a differentiated rate. Furthermore, which means social justice, for example at this point we have, for example, a tax rate of 22%, we have a situation that some families can't eat that meat once a week, and some eat daily. For example, it works, so that on this occasion it puts a zero rate they would then allow those that can eat that they can never eat, that they can eat every other day. But would allow Croatian peasants to increase production and placement on their market.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1015	I'm asking you no questions. On behalf of the Proposer Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1016	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to remind you that at this point Croatia has its two rates zero and 22%. That zero rate covers basic food products. I said basic food products, medicines, and orthopaedic aids. So when we talk about reducing the rate from 22% to 20% then we go with the fact that basic food products are already summarised inside. And this in order for the Croatian citizen to eat more meat because the VAT rate is 22%, I think it's one thesis that eats so little populist. But a thesis that doesn't have its basis in practical application. Again, the rate that goes in favor of those with greater purchasing power. Because obviously here today the debate goes one way that the proposed VAT rate must be socially sensitive. And on the other hand, the problem is filling the state budget. So someone can buy a pound of meat that costs 20 kuna, pay him a zero VAT rate, and someone will buy a steak or something that costs 80 and 90 kuna, too, pay a zero VAT rate. And that's what I'm saying. It's a different rate problem. You should practically introduce ten feet [10 feet] on a pig or June, because of the different price and quality of meat in order to benefit from some kind of social sensitivity. Because if you introduce differentiate rate to meat, then it benefits the most those who have greater purchasing power.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1017	I thank the minister. For correcting the incorrect allegations, the esteemed consignor, Mrs. Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1018	I thank Mr. Vice President, the minister said a zero rate was introduced for basic food products. For example, the exact zero rate is introduced for basic food products. For example, not exactly zero is introduced to bread, milk, books, medicines, and so on. Basic food products are bread and milk, only they give. And to explain to me what I said, for example, which means social sensitivity, and the sociality of the tax system is not needed in such a wide way. But the tax should also be in that it should also be social but should be developed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1019	I thank you for correcting the inaccuracies. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Mate Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1020	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Let me begin my debate by quoting the provision of the Constitution of Article 51. Who says, everyone is obliged to participate in public spending settlement in accordance with their economic opportunities. The tax system is based on the principles of equality and justice. The tax on additional value is one of the most unfair taxes. For a simple reason, because it does not care about the possibilities of economic opportunities, in fact, those who pay value added tax, which are the ultimate consumers. And today when it is discussed to reduce or not reduce the tax to an additional value. In principle, any reduction in the tax on additional value is actually acceptable and can be supported. However, another dilemma opens here, whether or not to reduce the tax to an additional value. But whether or not an additional value tax can be reduced, and an even differentiated rate could be introduced, which would be targeted and would allow for a more socially fair burden on taxpayers on the one hand. On the other hand, it made it possible to participate in the development of the Republic of Croatia through a tax function, in the tax function in the development of the Republic of Croatia and in certain branches. Which are in a more difficult position and individual areas of the Republic of Croatia that are in a difficult position. Since it's impossible for one another, we're actually committed to a differentiated target differentiated rate. And the expansion of the product covered by the zero rate. Why are you... Because the introduction of reduced rates on agricultural food products and tourism services encourages the development of these activities by reducing the entry costs which makes them privileged compared to other activities in the economy. Justified conditions for such a position are found in the fact that agricultural activities are too heavy and essential in Slavonia for example and Baranja, parts of Croatia are the most affected and injured in the Homeland War. The introduction of reduced rates is therefore one of the options for bringing the economy closer to Slavonia and Baranja to an equal starting position in the economy of other regions of Croatia that are not fortunately affected by war destruction and enables internal competitiveness. The inter-step for agricultural and food products is becoming one of the social measures that reduces the cost of living, especially in the area of the supply of supplies and other products of broad consumption because it is expected that... to reduce prices for these products. [[You don't understand.]] After all, a colleague, Zgrebec, showed a view of how this could be reflected in the example of 100 kuna. At the same time, the introduction of inter-departures in agricultural and food products and tourism services is increasing the competitive capacity of our economy in relation to the countries of the environment and the European Union, because they also have inter-steps in this area, and this should be taken into account in particular when it comes to the agricultural and food system which otherwise takes a long transitional period to get closer and to bring it into a position to be as competitive as possible with the European Union. In addition, indirect and direct export policy is stimulated. Unfortunately, the reduction in VAT alone, not by introducing and inter-steps, would stimulate import policy. Since the largest number, or more than 75% of the goods of broad consumption, is practically of import origin. It's especially to expect that... In addition, direct and so-called “direct” is stimulated. direct export policy. [[You don't understand.]] It is expected that tourists will buy cheaper goods more widely, and directly through lower entry costs from the increased competitiveness of the agricultural and food industry. This will increase exports. Since a single 12% rate for tourism services has been proposed in our bill, we propose to delete zero rates for the services of organised stay with foreign leads. We suggest introducing a zero rate for clothing and shoes intended for children up to 7 years old, children's food, hygiene supplies for children, aids and children's education, and it is actually one of the strongest measures of the most intelligent policy that can be actually given. In such a situation, simply when we talk about increasing the number of products that should be covered by a zero rate and when we talk about introducing a rate that should cover agricultural and food products, we are actually talking about the possibility of more socially fairing the burdens of tax obligations on end-users, i.e. consumers, and that, in practice, as much as possible, although not entirely, but how much we achieve the provision of the Constitution of Article 51, which actually allows our citizens, according to their economic capabilities, to participate more fairly in the settlement of this tax which, unfortunately, so far has been absolutely the same for all and has not actually taken into account at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1021	I thank the esteemed representative, Mati Arlovic. It's 13:30. We interrupt the session and proceed at 3:00. The first in line is the distinguished representative Ljubica Lalić at 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1022	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The word has a respected representative, Ms. Ljubica Lalić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1023	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Minister, a few colleagues and fellow MPs. Obviously, we won't keep our promise that the assembly won't be empty, but it's all going to work. Here, allow me a few words about the bill that's in front of us. The Value Added Tax Act was adopted in 1995 and it regulates the new tax system for sales, goods and services replacing the previous transport taxation system based on the Transport Tax Act. Experts' opinions on the new tax system were shared, and the resistance to the new system was very intense for both producers and traders, and most of all for citizens who, as a result, carry the burden of this tax. All these circumstances led to the application of the Law adopted in 1995 only in 1.1.1998. To this day, the shared opinions of experts have not come near, let alone even. What everyone has agreed on is the betrayal of this tax form, which the applicant, in the light of the proposal for these amendments, qualify as a positive side of the tax system. From the point of view of security and the scope of the state budget, which excludes the interest of citizens, that qualification is then fully established. However, the state authority should primarily take care of the general interest of all citizens and, from this point of view, qualify for the issuing of the tax system to its positive side, at the very least, it is embarrassing. It is a completely incorrect argument that the new tax system has led to a reduction in the grey economy. The grey economy is booming today, and it is not managed by tax systems, nor by state inspection services, which in recent times have become increasingly critical and critical of the law rather than by monitoring their implementation. On the streets, markets and stations we are offered goods from foreign and domestic producers at significantly lower prices than prices in trade. Of course, it's a product that is not paid for by VAT, and the proposer tells us that this tax system has reduced the grey economy. Today, in Croatia, it is no problem to get, for example, cigarettes from a domestic producer with a stamp from the Ministry of Finance at a significantly lower price than the price in the store. They're cigarettes with no VAT paid, no matter what they have a stamp. The final consumer carrying the tax burden was dissatisfied with the single tax rate and when the law was passed and when it started to apply, and today even though over the last 4 years a 0% rate has been introduced on bread, milk, books, medicines, orthoptic aids, scientific journals, public film screening services, and on the services of organised foreign tourists who do not pay, who are paid with foreign money. Because of this expressed dissatisfaction in pre-election time, the party in power has now made a promise that the VAT rate will be reduced from 22% to 20%, and is now making this easy promise to make these changes by applying the changes to be postponed by 1.1.2005. This delay itself indicates that it was very quickly understood that the promise was made lightly because it was not made, because there is no such approach as to where the hole in the budget is not even settled, let alone to increase the revenue side, which is necessary if the social rights promises are to be realised. Balanced desires and needs is only possible by a completely different tax policy than proposed. A linear reduction in the tax rate of 2% of the final consumer, i.e., the citizen gets absolutely nothing. It only gets a trader or traders, all or most of those three and a half billion, as estimated to be less in the state budget because of these changes. This may be the goal of making changes, but of course it cannot be made public. If we remember all those problems with merchants when the law began to apply, then the question is well-founded, how will thousands and thousands of traders be kept under control? Have they reduced the price of each item due to a reduction in the tax rate of only 2%? The only answer is no, and that means that this law declares, therefore, only in words benefit citizens, and the actual one measured, 3 and a half billion kunas have traders. That is why this law is unacceptable despite all the assurances of both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance to delay... only to improve systems and instruments that will ensure that the real benefits of VAT reduction are borne by citizens. [[no switch]] A much more efficient discharge of citizens is a reduction in income tax and a reduction in the rate of salary contributions. The effectiveness of such discharge guarantees a clearer control system. As no one would conclude, on the basis of the above, that I am opposed to reducing the VAT rate, I would like to say explicitly that I am pushing for a reduction in the rate but in a way that will truly lead to a reduction in the level of prices, competitiveness of the economy, a reduction in the grey economy and an increase in domestic production, etc. Although the Proposer, in the explanation of the proposal, stated that these objectives would be achieved by the proposed change in the linear reduction of 2% of this reasoning will be assessed by anyone who is more serious about this solution in everyday life. Tax policy can and must improve the competitiveness of our economy, tax policy must stimulate investment consumption, and personal consumption of domestic origin. For such an effect is not sufficient reduction of 2%, it is necessary to introduce differentiated tax rates aimed at encouraging the consumption of domestic processing industry goods. In Croatia, we proposed 11% on food products. Such a reduction is seen in price levels, which is in the direct interest of citizens who, according to some estimates, 70, 80 and even 90% of income spend on food. The additional effect is to increase the competitiveness of domestic production, reduce the cost of life with the competitiveness achieved, leading to an increase in consumption followed by an increase in domestic production and the creation of new jobs. The competitiveness of domestic production will certainly result in a reduction in imports which, objectively in this country, is a problem. The objective of the existing tax system should be achieved in creating competitiveness, which is that the tax burden is borne by the final customer. Now it is not always because it is especially evident in primary agricultural production, which is still owned by small peasants who are mostly not in the VAT system. They are still on every kilogram of mineral fertiliser deciliter and gram of protective products, seeds on each seedling are paid by VAT at a rate of 22%. It is clear that they are not the end consumers of these goods. In the beginning, their production is more expensive by at least 22%. In the sale of its goods, this sale takes place on a regulated market, prices for goods are increasing by 22% further, resulting in incompetence, inability to sell and poverty, which remains a significant part of the citizens. Therefore, the traffic of goods is carried out on an unsettled market, farmers are exposed to the mercy and mercies of customers and shoppers, and throughout the chain suffers the consumer who, for example, pays the same price for a kilo of junetine, and when that kilo of junetine cost 17 kuna live scales as it is now when that kilogram of live scale costs only 10 kuna. Who makes that fat profit on both the manufacturer and the consumer. The answer to this question is certainly not going to be given by a government that assures us that by linearly reducing the VAT rate of 2%, it will reduce the price level and improve the competitiveness of the economy. Such a move is pure demagogy, so I estimate it, let's expand the range of zero rate products, introduce a rate of 11% on goods of the domestic processing industry, and then the general rate should remain 22% and certainly achieve the goal that is desirable and in the general interest. Finally, a few more words about the Law on the collection of claims in order to clarify incorrect claims. This House brought it in after it found that by 2000 21 and a half billion unpaid state claims were collected from tax, contributions, and customs. A method of collection was sought that would not lead to bankruptcy of economic operators and loss of jobs. The more important question is why there was such a huge unpaid claim. Certainly not because of the tax rate, but because of the financial indiscipline that has arisen because of incompetence and unconsciousness and perhaps the corruption of the state administration. The reduction of the tax rate will not eliminate the reasons for financial indiscipline, therefore, Mr. Minister, remove the reasons and not the rate, because we will be forced again very quickly to seek solutions to the collection of what has come with the sole guilt of the state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1024	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Agent Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1025	I'd almost say that the only thing you said at the end was the issue of the state administration, but it was created by the current government. Madam MPs you said in your statement lightly made a promise in pre-election time. IF the promise was made lightly, then this authority would not go before the Croatian Parliament and objectively try to show the situation and tell us where we predict that it will go 3 and a half billion and how we even recommend that traders give them. When you said that consumption of domestic products is certainly an exact quote but only one note, last year food products were imported for a billion and 200 million kuna and your portfolio was the Ministry of Agriculture. So, Madam MPs, it is incorrect to say that the Croatian Democratic Community has made an easy promise, it has made a clear guarantee that it will do so, which is why it has made the proposal today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1026	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Ljubica Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1027	Thank you, Mr. President. A fellow Jarnjak has injured the Rules of Procedure for not correcting the incorrect allegations.../ There's no overlap. He has the right to correct an incorrect allegation, but he has no right to correct or correct my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1028	Unfortunately, this, uh, fact-finding claim means an expression of opinion. And it does not mean correcting an opinion if an opinion is corrected. You've expressed no opinion. Of course you have also expressed your opinion, but you have made a claim stemming from your opinion and that claim, that claim which is factual in nature, the representative Jarnjak estimated to be incorrect and reacted and corrected. It's not about correcting an opinion because if every opinion stays just like the process in the human head when it comes out, then it's no longer an opinion, then it's a factual claim or a valuable attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1029	But can we do that in the future?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1030	Well, I think we all understand each other very well. It's one thing when someone says from the MPs: "I guess, I think, I'm thinking about it," and the other is when they make a certain claim. I think we know that distinction very well and that we will be reasonable enough to always see it and not go with the corrections of false allegations to anyone. This is not the reason for this, but please understand that it does not mean correcting an opinion if the result of the opinion is corrected. Dear Representative Ivan, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1031	Dear President, dear ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The question arises which, what is the meaning of the proposed law. Its basic and fundamental meaning is certainly the fulfillment of the pre-election promise of the Croatian Democratic Community. And if we say so, then I agree that the pre-election promise has been made because the current prime minister, and then the candidate for parliament, said he would propose that the VAT rate be reduced from 22% to 20% in the first session of the government. And that is a lot, indeed, and it has to be said that the HDZ has achieved its pre-election promise. And I don't think we should even argue. However, the government did not consider the majority of the relevant arguments by making this pre-election promise, and apparently adopted and defined this proposal a little hasty, which is obviously difficult to implement in practice, and then asked for one year of postponement and will only be applied from the next, next tax, fiscal and calendar year. When, as it is not about the system, we do not change the tax system but only change the tax rate then we cannot use the argument that it takes the preparation of the administration because it will not write 22 but will write 20 and it is really simple and possible to implement it if it is desired in a month. So all we have to do is announce this tax reform can be made in a month. We don't need a year's adjustment. VAT is essentially an unfair tax because it is a tax on consumption. He is particularly unfair and socially insensitive if he has only one tax rate. I cannot understand why it would be good for all citizens of this Croatia to reduce VAT on cars costing more than EUR 100 000 and children's food costing 4 kuna and 26 lipa from 22% to 20%, or by 2 percentage points of tax or by 1.64% of the price of that product and whether the change in the price, these from 4 kuna and 26 lipa, would actually be more expensive than the very essence of the amendment, than the very essence of the amendment of the law. Furthermore, the argument of the easier calculation presented by Minister Zuzul in the government is truly absurd because the tax is no longer counted on the counter but on the computers, and computers do not care how many they multiply. 22, 12 or 20%. Most of us agree and we promised the citizens that VAT should be reduced. What we're different about is how much or how much does it take to cut it? And we are aware that this reduction will result in lower revenues in the State budget. Nobody slows it down. Maybe we're arguing about how much less it's going to put into the budget but we need to see other than this negative effect if we can consider it negative, which is less revenue in the budget, which are possible positive effects because VAT is going to be reduced? For example, a reduction in prices should have an impact on the increase in consumption, which means that this deficit in the budget does not need to be statistically summed up against what current consumption is. It can obviously be bigger or smaller as it will be redistributed saved money from, from, from, a reduction in VAT. I don't believe it's the company's interest to buy more luxury cars than baby food. So it would be logical to really think about the differentiated rate so that we stimulate cheaper products to be what they really are, and I think that the interest of society in this example is to buy more baby food or, for example, child equipment. And I agree with the minister who today said that if the rate was differentiated so that the poor would then be poor, they wouldn't be able to buy poor artichoke. Yes, but the salad would be available to them so they could buy poor salad, and the rich are buying artichoke now anyway, and they probably don't need to buy more artichoke. It is obvious to them whether or not artichokes will be cheaped or not, but for those who have lower incomes it is really important to them whether the salad is cheap. With the year that the government has proposed, why not join the system of tax reform? Let's see what taxes are that will really allow for an increase in standards. What are these taxes that will allow beyond the average economic growth of branches of national interest such as tourism, agriculture or the food industry? What are these taxes that will stimulate the development of entrepreneurship? What are these taxes that will strengthen the position of local self-government units? What are these taxes, for example, that will affect our increase in birth rate? Today, we are discussing a proposal for a VAT tax. At the next session, we will discuss the second tax proposal, the amendment of the VAT tax law that he referred to in the SDP Club debate, and we will also discuss the proposal for a Law amending the Tax on Income Act. Are we going to discuss at each session by the beginning of next year a draft law amending the law of the same law? Or might it really be wiser if we took a break, used this time until the next few months and joined the tax reform? The tax system is one of the systems that requires the need for a national consensus. I therefore propose that we stop, engage all the potentials we have in the Republic of Croatia, and we heard yesterday from the prime minister that human resources in Croatia are limited, in order to come up with a tax reform system that will achieve a political but national consensus and that will result in the objectives that we all agree on, an increase in standards, economic growth, an intrinsic policy, the fiscal strength of local self-government, the promotion of entrepreneurship and others. At the time of adaptation, the European Union needs to see what VATs are like in 15 Member States and 10 candidate countries, and there they all have a differentiated rate where, under differentiation, we do not mean zero and some rate, but two rates are taken where both numbers are greater than zero. It would be good, and it is a suggestion not only for this law, but for the laws' proposals that when the proposer proposes a law to show us, like some... marketing, what is the legal practice in the countries of the European Union and that right then we have a comparison as it would be easier for us to discuss here that we have received all the VAT rates in these 25 countries that I have mentioned. I'm closing up. I propose that the Government launch a political, professional and public debate on the full reform of the tax system, and propose by the end of April a set of tax laws to achieve a political and national consensus, and whose application would then be due to a serious procedure in the tax system as early as next year. To achieve those goals that we are talking about, not to go the other way, to take action first, and then we are just talking about the goal that this measure needs to be achieved. We have defined goals, so that's all we need to define the tax system to enable them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1032	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1033	Mr. President... My esteemed representative, Mršić, must report, although I have also answered for the discussion, so I will explain more widely some of the elements that are not mentioned with the correction of the quote, that it is a consumption tax. [[speaks off, can't be heard]] If the value added tax was a consumption tax it would be called that, it would be. It happens to him, if it comes to cash payments, the end consumer pays. But it exists as a tax in every place from production through processing, to consumption and everywhere, and everywhere is temporarily paid, so it can be taken away. So his name says he's just on added value, not on... We have a consumption tax category, and that's a whole different tax category. [[the speaker doesn't understand]] As much as I end up being just or unfair as he is, a more perfect mechanism and a better system than a value added tax doesn't exist in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1034	Honorable representative Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1035	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, which is on the benches in the first reading, we can certainly and must discuss it and observe it from several points of view, i.e. from several points of view. First of all, I would have singled out three of the most important. Political, social, economic, and economic views, as these are areas where this law will affect the most, or areas most concerned. Here, I'll try to explain briefly why I think so. Why the political view, first of all, is that citizens, i.e. voters are now able to assess the government's first moves, i.e. compare compared to the time when President Sanader fought for voter confidence and when he got it. Which means that these political moves, the moves are responsible policy, the responsible politician and that he actually wants to change the credibility of Croatia's policy which, in most cases, has not been very credible. Why and how I explain my social perspective. First of all, this Law in its most important element means reducing the rate from 22% to 20%, which means eventually that it's going to cost some products and that I'm going to try to do it now through people who are most concerned with giving a picture of what they're going to have of it. Let us take a pensioner who receives an average or who receives a pension of one thousand and two hundred kunas and who surely takes all his pension to the store or spends his life and certainly is not enough, which means that he will receive 27 kuna per month, Mr Linic said. Yes, he will receive 27 kuna, that for a year he will receive 280 kuna or up to 300 kuna if he spends that entire pension for his life. We are now looking at an average four-member family that spends on life expenses, let's say 6 thousand kunas, and the baskets that are all depending on where the city is made of 6 and here in Zagreb 6 and 900 etc. which means that this four-member family who spends 6 thousand kuna on life with this move will get at the annual level of a thousand and five hundred kuna if it is spent. It means that even one with a 300 kuna win will be able to buy more and one with a thousand and five hundred kuna win more products. In this way, the state also wins, gets a return to the budget through VAT but also gets an economy because increased purchases result in multifaceted effects. The increased purchase increases consumption, consumption means the need to increase supply and the offer increases productivity and ultimately new jobs. So, with social impact, this law also has an economic incentive effect and this is the first move that we can observe in this sense that in this way they want to open up these opportunities for work. If we look at it that way, we can say that it may be too ambitious because 27 kunas, thousands and five hundred kunas are certainly small sums, but if we see that the government has invested in this very raising of living standards, in raising the purchasing power of 3.5 billion kunas that will be missing in the state budget, then it's a major shift, then it says more. It speaks of this government much more than you speak of that lack. It means that it is lacking that it will behave entrepreneurially, that it will find other sources to compensate for this deficit and that it can pay or that it can cover all costs. It also gave traders the opportunity to reduce the price of their products. Well, there's been a lot of discussion here, no traders, so no merchants, so they're not crazy traders to cut down, you'll see that it's not going to be anything. Look, we're day-to-day witnesses to the opening of various trade chains. We also witnessed their imprisonment. Why are they closing? Because they're not competitive. And why aren't they competitive? Because they are expensive, which means that our man knows very well where he can buy, at which price and which is cheaper and that the trader will have very little space if he behaves marketly to keep prices or to keep them than the real trader will take this opportunity to go down first in order to be as competitive as possible and to take the primate on the market and to behave market. This is what Mr. Cacic was talking about, and I'm actually surprised that traders and entrepreneurs don't have the opportunity to wait, but they themselves have to show their creativity if in some ruthless market they want to survive, which means that this government has shown by this move that it is entrepreneurial, that it will encourage and entrepreneurial moves, that it will encourage all creative ones who will know to take advantage of their opportunity and on this ruthless market so that there is not much fear that traders will retain but will have to act very very marketingly in order to be first and certainly also with other measures that will allow this reduction of prices to come to the one for which they too are fighting to survive. We also heard from ministers and others who participated in the debate that this is actually the beginning of tax reform and okay, there will be opportunities where more can be done to achieve all the elements that can be achieved through tax action. But we must also say that this government has not been given a mandate in a month or until April, but for four years as well as all governments, and in that sense it will determine because it bears the greatest responsibility when it proposes any proposal. I think that in this sense we must have some understanding and that in this way we can only achieve some quality proposals that will finally bring real effect. Here, I think I've included all the most important elements. I'd only look at Mr. Cacic's exposure for a short time, which is, I'll try to be as precise as possible, but in terms of guessing. You see, we, as HNS, promised a reduction, etc. but when we came, but when we came to power and we faced reality then we saw that it wasn't real, I think that's what this government should do if it wants to be responsible. The right and the responsible Government must act in accordance with such procedures as to know in advance and to obtain the information it needs to propose to voters, i.e. what needs to be proposed and put behind it, rather than avoiding its own proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1036	Thank you very much, we have two corrections to the incorrect quote and one replica. According to the Rules of Procedure... The order is first incorrectly cited and then the replica goes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we're going to have a correction to the incorrect assumption, Mr. Lesar's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1037	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must correct the quote of my colleague Fuček that the value of a four-member family basket monthly value of 6 thousand kuna will be 1300 kuna per year. It is simply not true, because in that basket in its structure there are bread and milk, medicines, one book and one movie ticket where VAT is zero because I know what it is because the basket as a method I introduced in 93 to the value of the basket that you carried out the annual effect would be a thousand and 32 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1038	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1039	So I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that the average savings will be proportionate to increasing income per family. This is incorrect because the consumption structure is not equal to the increase in family income, so the poor in the family spend more on food and richer families spend more on jewels, perfumes and luxury cars. And by your reckoning, if she's right, then the biggest savings will be for those who are the richest. If those with three thousand kunas per year harms 1,500, those with 30 will save 15 thousand kunas, which means that this law is tailored to the rich. And the SDP proposal to differentiate the rate exactly to make the most of the savings in the poor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1040	The replica of Mrs. Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1041	Exposures, from the presentation of colleague Fuček, it could be understood that we who criticise the text Amendment of the Law and the supplement of the VAT Act that we are against the fact that certain categories of citizens, therefore, with the lowest incomes of pension or salary, do not come out to meet that they save 27 kunas as you said monthly or around 300 kuna per year. No, but we actually want that if it is already going towards such a 3 billion kuna VAT reduction, which is not to be questioned if the government said in its proposal that this is such an amount that it is going by a differentiated rate to deliberately reduce VAT to certain goods and services. We can talk about that. We have one proposal that will come into debate, it's open to all proposals as agreed, that this reduction will be possible through prices in stores, so that traders do do, that this is a slightly larger percentage, we suggest that for certain products it is something over 8% and not just 1.6%, and the growth of purchasing power standards can only increase in society by economic growth. And economic growth then has higher employment, higher wages. You will never increase economic growth by tax or reduction, by increasing or reducing value added tax. To some benefits in tax policy that and the one relating to the labour price, the one relating to the tax on profits but certainly not this tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1042	Replication response. Mrs. Katharina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1043	I don't know if I'm responding to Mrs. Zgrebec's replica or Mr. Grbec's, but the fewer of them are in the same position, so can I do that?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1044	You can only answer the replica of Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec and no one else.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1045	Okay. Thank you very much. Then I can only take a differentiated rate of what I wanted to say in the debate but I've lost track of how that now 2 months after the SDP is no longer in power, so much good and quality this differentiated rate and for 4 years there's no way that something was going on in that sense? That's what I was going to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1046	What? And which means... I feel like it's a little late. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is it? Here's my colleague Cacic, the correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1047	Thank you very much. I'd just correct the incorrect allegations about that detail that... to know what she was offering and promises before coming to power, unlike the one who didn't know it, so she realized something else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, we knew exactly what turned out to be because we're already one. 7 only 6 months after we came to power, we were able to prove it financially because it is already verifiable because the time has passed for us to have two billion more revenue and there is a reserve of 2% VAT cuts but as responsible people, we have determined that there is a smarter way to spend it. That's what this is about. And you're here now proposing something that you still don't know will be and when it will be. Of course, we'll see about a year from now whether the income based on the basis that Shuker, Minister Schuker, mentioned here will successfully increase I sincerely hope he will, and it would be good if he will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1048	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1049	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Ministers of fellow Members and fellow MPs. I believe that this is the right time for the government to propose a reduction of VAT at the beginning of its term of office to the Parliament or to refer to the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the law on value added tax. Why now is the right time. It is not only the mere fulfillment of the pre-election promise, it is, above all, a kind of optimistic message to the public, that after three years of apathy and indifference can be different and better and that taxes are not increased but quite the opposite, they decrease. We remember a few departures ago when the HDZ Government also introduced a new system of taxation of goods and services, which replaced the current taxation system based on the Law on Transport Taxes and Services. It seems to me that the opposition debates at the time are almost similar to the arguments and rhetoric we hear today. And that it's not the right time and that the economy isn't ready, that there's going to be a complete disaster and what's happened. In fact, none of that happened to the state surplus, whether we spent it best or not, that's the question. But anyway, the introduction of VAT was a full hit. The only similarity that the opposition at the time was then against the introduction of VAT is today against reducing the VAT rate from 22 to 20. They either suggest differentiated rates, or some new ones have suggestions. And I'm saying they passed the election and won because they promised to cancel or significantly cut the VAT, like who. And what they did. They didn't do anything, they stuck to 22% of the rate as if it were God-given. Not from Borislav Skegra. So here we are today concerned about how the budget will be filled from where it will be compensated, and how some social rights will be fucked, and so on and so on. I would like to remind you that Croatia has one of the highest VAT rates in Europe. The average VAT rate in Europe is around 18%. Therefore, the government's obvious wish is, and should also be, this House and it is time for the tax discharge of citizens, consumers, entrepreneurs and so on. We all remember when Croatia introduced a rate of 22% that came from Europe and mainly from Germany to praise the then government and the minister, for the kind of courage that immediately went with such a high rate. Because it is clear to everyone that the high VAT rate when the time comes is much easier to lower than if the estimated VAT rate is low, then it is difficult to implement it in all the parallels of Europe. Therefore, the wonders of this debate are clear that some have not recognized it is time for changes and turns in the governance of the country and the start of the economy by hiring and the kind of spread of the optimistic atmosphere that this people can do better. By reducing the value added tax rate from 22% to 20% of governments, but this House is also sending a clear message to the public what it wants. You reduce price levels to improve the competitiveness of the economy, but also to rationalise the state administration and this means a cheaper and more efficient state. I would like to stress that, and I would really like to emphasise that it would be logical to call this government if it did not carry out election promises. And don't call it if it keeps election promises, so I guess citizens in most citizens voted for it. Even if this law does not require special means, and we have a year to prepare and to spend it in peace. There is no reason not to accept it, and it is my appeal to all, therefore, that this law and this motion of government this initial fly, so that you all join us. And to simply accept it and let the government carry out what it has given its citizens' mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1050	I thank Mr. Agent Nick Rebić. And now he has the word "respectful representative of Jure Bitunac."
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1051	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It looks like the two of us fell from the Chetino area to say a few words about PDV. To convey in some ways the thinking of the citizens and the people who are competent in the economy from our territory. I can tell that I am witnessing today, and the Croatian public, once in a twist, when it comes to the idea of VAT. And taking the VAT as such. We all know that by introducing 1996, actually by passing laws and his... a little later that today's opposition was then a fierce opponent of the introduction of VAT. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Especially when it comes to a rate of 22%. The intensity was to keep him at some lower rate, 18%, but it became an X-ray reason for him to be exactly the one. And today they're defending him. One of the promises, when it comes to the former government, and especially when it comes to the SDP, was to cut the rate from 22 to 17 or 18% as far as I can remember. in a recent presentation, Mr... [[no switch]] He mentioned that the former government has resolved the issue in another way, which is that other taxes have been reduced and that the effect is on the overall economic settlement that they have promised. [[You don't understand.]] I must say, this also reminds me of the promise of some parties about 2,000 and some individuals of party presidents about 200,000 jobs and then did certain simulations and tried to fool Croatia in some way and the public. Well, here we are... It's not 200 thousand jobs, it's 100 and 64 to the last... [[You don't understand.]] which they had before these choices. [[You don't understand.]] Since I have also made one lap, I have entered certain political thinking and speculation, I must say that when it comes to taxes, when it comes to VAT, it is primarily economic, financial, or fiscal thinking and the area, and in that direction I would like to say a few words. This morning I called one of my high school colleagues who is a university professor today, a doctor of economic science, so I asked him to give me one of the reasons that would in some way question the government's decision on VAT, the reduction of VAT from 22% to 20%. But that's exactly what he's kind of doing and the narrow part that he's dealing with -- he said there's not a single reason. Therefore, when it comes to VAT, it also means the economy, but also to the citizens, a certain dissipation. For citizens in the right order, it means that they will be able to take some more goods, some more products and services for the same money. But when it comes to the economy, it will mean exactly what Mrs. Katarina Fuček said about the increase in consumption, and that will be one stopper when it comes to the total economy as such. I'd also like to say that I agree with Mr. Cacic when it comes to merchants. I believe that traders are part of the economic system and should not in any way be drawn that possibly those 2% will go into their pocket, or into their profits. I believe that when it comes to this fear that she will be regulated through... demand as such. [[You don't understand.]] So there's no dilemma. These can be some original negative effects. But they will, in a later period, be offered both demand and competition when it comes to all trading houses and there should be no negative reactions. On the other hand, identical to the budget that would be achieved in this way, I believe that it can only be in the initial period, and not later. Proponents of the differentiated rate remind me of the '80s period. That's when I started working at some company and doing price calculations. When there were 22 tariffs and later on when it comes to the sales tax of products and services that we used to bring VAT, I have to say that it was complicated, more tariffs, etc. It has caused confusion in some ways, and it is possible when it comes to traders and certain malversions in one broader and larger degree when it comes to a larger number of rates. On the other hand, I would like to mention something else, and in some ways I would disagree that, about 3 billion, all of us who are in position, and also the opposition, I believe that these 3 billion will, in some ways, end up in one economic cycle and we can expect that, at the very beginning, these negative effects would eventually be about 400, 500 million kunas lower than some of my calculations that I've been doing. Mr. Radosh mentioned he was paying taxes on payment. I think that would be quite risky for the state budget. Even the previous government did not dare to go on such an amendment. Therefore, the payment will be as so far... /The speaker has been disabled/...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1052	Thank you very much, Mr. rep Bitunjec. It's a little bit of a correction. Here you go, Mršić. You have a correction to the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1053	I would correct the inaccuracy of a colleague who said we were defending a 22% rate. No, I don't. We're also pushing for the VAT rate to decrease. But unlike you, we're pushing for a differential reduction. And if that differentiated reduction, or differentiated rates remind you of the period from the '80s, then look a little bit into Europe. There, then, in 24 countries, it will remind you of a period from the '80s because of 25 countries, 24 have a differentiated rate, and only one has one rate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1054	Thank you. He can't. Yes, yes, unfortunately we won't make an exception. Therefore, the plate was raised late, although the representative was new, so he did not react. But here, to remain consistent, and the replica of correcting an incorrect quote is not possible. The word has a representative, Mr. Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1055	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. I must say that in several recent discussions there have been several inaccuracies because the first inaccuracy is that the SDP was certainly not against the introduction of VAT, but sought very precise and clear simulations which would bring this to the Croatian economy and in general to the Croatian economy. Unfortunately, some forget it. Also, the past government in which the SDPs were in, but the SDPs as a party also had in their election programme a reduction in VAT but in a completely different way than the current government suggests. I have to say right away at the beginning that the SDPs are certainly not against the VAT reduction, but we are in favour of making its effects clear, to move on immediately and to be far more precise simulations that will be given here before us by the representatives. Unfortunately, I'm afraid we don't have anything concrete here other than our cobwebs. I am surprised that in the 21st century, at the time of information, one of the main arguments against multiple rates, i.e. intersteps, or differentiated rates, will be that it will be complicated to make or complicated to control. If we already have the IRS and we have bodies dealing with it, if we have a computer age, then I'm surprised someone can say it at all, let alone think about it. Therefore, the reasons to go with differentiated rates are to make it socially fairer than it is in this case. That is why the SDP club has also let its proposal to amend and supplement the Value Added Tax Act because it is being introduced, I will quote that because of the public to make it clear: “A 12% rate is being introduced for agriculture and nutrition, a 12% rate for tourism as an extremely important export branch of the Croatian economy, a zero rate for children's food, clothing and other needs, and a zero rate for newspapers.” Just to see what's going on, I've made an effort, so I've performed a very simple mathematical operation, which is happening with the newspapers because I'm skeptical that on the Croatian Government's appeal and the Croatian Parliament the merchants and also the publishers will act that way. One newspaper that today, a daily newspaper that costs 6 kunas, if the VAT rate is reduced from 22% to 20%, instead of 6 kuna, should cost 5 kunas and 90 limes. I think I share your skepticism that rarely any publisher at a time who already complains that because of the big review, because of a small circle of readers in Croatia, because it is estimated that only 10% of Croatian citizens will regularly read the newspaper, that they will reduce the price. And the total savings of Croatian citizens would be within one month of buying one daily newspaper, 2 kuna and 95 limes. It's a different thing, for example, to a middle-class car that costs approximately 211 thousand kuna VAT. But there would be 3 000 kunas in savings. However, we are going to contribute not to that broad circle of people who should read more newspapers and be better informed than before, but to those who have money and who would buy that car regardless of everything because of their 3 and a half thousand kuna for a luxury or better car is a negligible category anyway. On the other hand, we also keep talking at this session of the Croatian Parliament and we have several laws that should help or function as a policy of art. Well, this is exactly the ideal time to amend and supplement the VAT Act to confirm the government's will to improve the innovative policy, but also with VAT. That's why I, I have to say, regretting that on one side you're talking about the intelligence policy, is going with some other measures. There are a large number of Croatian families here, not only with three and more children, but also families who have their first and second children face problems with expensive clothes, diets, school supplies, etc. I'm an example of one of the children's shoes that cost 200 kuna, which cost, we know who the parents are, more. The savings would be with this tax rate if they were to be reduced to these two index points, 3, or 3 kuna 28 limes. With the SDP proposal, this would already be far better and more respectable 16 kuna. Therefore, if we are talking about the most intelligent policy, let us do something to make it so. I listened carefully to Mr. Minister and he said that in this way and local self-government this year, it was probably a lapus, but probably in the next power and something more invested. I would warn him that a good part of the local self-government units has invested a lot these years, that they are partly reinvested, and within the framework of the Budget Law they do not have a great opportunity for additional investment, regardless of VAT. Therefore, I am personally convinced that it is a replacement of thesis. And at the end of this presentation, I must say, and I hope that I will not turn out to be a skeptic, but I am afraid that in the end, this government and this assembly will come again at the end of the year before the Croatian Parliament and postpone the application of this law. In doing so, I must also react to those discussions which have been said that the previous Government and the previous majority in the Croatian Parliament have been quite inert towards the intrinsics of this kind, and I am also quoting on the first page of my argument that, that is, this Government, the former Government, forgive, and the previous composition of the Parliament, have also had changes in VAT rates where they have been introduced since 1 June 2000 for scientific journals, and since 1 September 2000 for public screening services, there has been a reduction, i.e. zero VAT rates have been introduced, and since 1 January 2001 for the services of organised foreign tourists who have paid the notes from abroad. This is just saying that the previous government and the previous majority in the Croatian Parliament, but in accordance with the circumstances that were in this country, have been working to cut taxes. Let us not forget that those income taxes and income taxes are also reduced, which are also for health insurance that are directly, which directly increase labour prices. Personally, I expect that the Croatian Government will come to this High House very soon with such proposals, because then it will really increase our economy's competitiveness and help directly more and more quality employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1056	I would like to thank my representative, Koreniki. And now he has the word of Agent Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1057	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you very much. If someone uninformed in political events in the state of Croatia came here among us, here in the Parliament I believe that he would not know who the opposition is, and who the government is because as I am here, I see power or position fighting to cut taxes while the opposition struggles to keep the taxes as they are. Either we have in Croatia many things turned upside down or the degree of democracy is higher than the most developed democratic countries in the world. I personally believe that our opposition in its presentation is against VAT cuts in order to finally say do not think that we are against VAT cuts, but in some other way, as an inexperienced parliamentary representative, and I think I have the right to say, gentlemen, you have had 4 years of time for tax reform, the Croatian Democratic Community is based on promises or guarantees and among them a reduction in value added tax has been given the trust of Croatian voters and, unlike you, we have begun to implement those promises. Certainly, I would like as a consumer or a citizen and a large part of our citizens of the Croatian state to go from 31. Three or one. 1st of this year, however, because of the state budget and because of everything that's going on in our country, I think it's realistic that it goes from 1. Next year. Certainly, it would be a good and different rate of tax, but as one representative here said, information in the state of Croatia I don't think it's at such a level of development that every product can track us from entering the border or from its production to its final sale. I don't think we're ready to follow this information yet, and when we get to the level of development in information, I think we'll be sure to say that different rates of tax in any case, but also some other products and other branches, me as mayor of 7, 8 years, and there are a lot of mayors and mayors here, we'll be sure to argue that the VAT rate on investments in municipal infrastructure, sports facilities, social facilities, because it's inappropriate to build a sports hall and often the state is co-financed by 50% or less, and then the unit bearer is local self-government, and then we pay 22% often to that amount that we get from the state and so we actually reduce the country's investment by 22%. So, I absolutely support the reduction of VAT, and this is what my voters and my voters are asking me to do, and in the future we will certainly be for every discharge of Croatian citizens, voters, and I am also going to be one step in the next period until they get better conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1058	I'd like to thank the representative. To correct Mr. Miroslav Korenik's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1059	My predecessor incorrectly stated that the government is fighting for tax cuts and that the opposition is against it. The SDP Club has just released into the parliamentary procedure a proposal to amend and supplement the law on defeating added value, which because the government has not given its opinion here yet in the procedure, but I will read to you that unlike this SDP proposal, it says that VAT is paid at rates 22, 12 and zero percent, therefore they are differentiated rates, and you cannot in any way claim that we are against VAT cuts, on the contrary, we are for that, but that it is more socially just than we think it is in the text offered by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1060	Thank you very much. A correction to the incorrect allegations by Ms. Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1061	So I'm going to correct the same incorrect allegation, which is that the opposition is fighting VAT cuts, and that's not true here today, none of the opposition clubs have said that, we all said that we support VAT cuts, however, that we disagree on why VAT decreases in this way because we think that otherwise differentiated VAT reductions could make this VAT reduction of citizens feel like raising their standards, this is not how they're going to feel, but traders. And second, I'd like to correct the incorrect assumption that we haven't done anything in tax relief, so we've reduced certain tax rates to introduce certain tax reliefs that primarily went to those social categories that are hard to live for and that apply from 1. 1. In 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1062	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1063	I'm sorry I didn't remember my colleague's name, but I have two corrections. First, no club said it was against VAT cuts we only have different approaches to reduce VAT. Over the past 3 and a half years, the tax system has increased its tax relief from 800 kuna to 1500 kuna. Introduces were introduced for treatment costs, interest on housing loans for sub-citizenship, sub-citizenship costs, up to an amount of 12,000 kuna, tax on profits, and reduced contributions by 4 index points in total. Therefore, in a given situation, it was assessed what would affect the increase in net wages, which would affect the increase in economic growth, and we had an uninterrupted economic growth since 2000, and we had growth for the first time in that period more profits than losses in our economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1064	Thank you very much. The word has a 10-minute hearing from Mr. Shime Wrestler.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1065	Thank you very much, nice greeting once again, 10 minutes would be too much to allow me to express my views and opinions very briefly, without any intention really, and I will try today and in the future without these tables, without object, without anything but my own attitude and my own opinion. But at first, I have to say that I learned some newspapers tonight because some colleagues reminded me of some specifics of the history of economic theory, which I had no intention of repeating the material tonight because we taught it a long time ago, also respecting every MP and every party to make their views and arguments without reminding them of any past time because we also followed it enough. But since we seem to be here mostly alone because of ourselves, it's no wonder that this assembly is half-empty, and if we could carry a little less cameras, then we'd probably be much more efficient. Why? I'm going to try to make my point because these are general evaluations, outwittings in this high house. At the beginning of each four-year term, each party shall present its own programme. Each year, the annual budget is also adopted under the annual budget of instruments for regulation of economic policy in that year. And it's part of the theory, but it's part of the practice. HDZ has now come to the situation for the first time, for the first time since the elections, in a situation that we can begin to try a certain fiscal reform. It is mostly welcomed at the knife and the question with which solutions to start at this point is as old as any outwitting in tax policy in any country in Europe. Unfortunately, unlike all these countries in Europe, in Europe, I only remind myself, Croatia has come a war route, and now there is both reconstruction and all that needs to be financed. I, as a financier in practice, express as much concern as I do, and how this will affect the budget. For years, I have been assessing and calculating what can affect this and listening to the proposal and reading the proposal for VAT correction and possible critical remarks that this VAT will reduce the state's revenues, that there will be no commitments, that it cannot be compensated and so on. I express my view, of course, by not criticising anyone, that after certain and my own experiences, let's say at the end of the year, I am modestly really because I am a little economist, and I am not a big one, doing some kind of short analysis of some trends, and on the basis of this budget, I have managed to assess some trends and movements, and when I question whether to go to tax rate correction, then I personally respond absolutely to it with respect of what can happen, but I also set an unquestionable goal: the tax reform must go. I would also suspect that the minister or the ministry will not during the year, but also, as part of the annual budget for this year, propose a part of the instruments that will regulate revenues and expenditures, then I would be even more skeptical. But I don't doubt that because I think tax reform should start without a delay. Everything can be fixed, everything can be made up. In the part of the revenue for which, because I didn't even prepare the analysis tonight but there's no need to quantify it, through a part of just the revenue that I tried to estimate for this year and prepare for this year, I tried only in one sector of income and doubled revenues last year. In the next debates when it comes, I'll bring up the data. The second sector for which I thus double the income tax sector is amazingly showing me that, in the context of these revenues, the only error in assessing these trends is by respecting part of the scientific, part or professional, and part of the experience method is the biggest error. We've evaluated and seen in fact that in these movements there's the biggest drop in income from profit tax, and none of us suspect that it's an economic recession. We are all convinced that the rate of growth that we are talking about regardless of the statistics is still up. So what's going on here? I only raise doubts about it, and in order to prove that there is a certain solid possibility that certain revenues can be compensated during the year. In the context of modeling whether one or another model chooses, which step and everything else holds everything. Everything has thesis and antithesis. But within the framework of me, it seems to me that I can conclude that it still comes down, let me postpone it for some other time. With due caution, I could not accept or advocate tax reform and try to achieve part of the objectives. The thesis in which you can discern the attitude that there are no reductions, can not stand. If it's a word, regardless of the hypothetical model that we take 3 billion, two or five, then their cycle from somewhere begins. In this sphere of rotation they will partly fall behind, of course not in the total amount. I don't think that this way of talking or at all saying that it won't be affected by the manufacturing sector or the service sector either could stand, and I think it's absolutely part of it, regardless of whether per percentage or index or point, that part of the impact of the positive and on the production and services sector as part of the standard will absolutely be. I didn't model, I repeat. We'll try that next time. In this context, I believe that each of the solutions can also serve as, if nothing, a psychological message and a signal not only to our voters, but also to the psychological message of a stranger. Tonight I heard the story at least as if someone else had brought us laws. Foreigners? Yes, in one part, but if we bring ourselves all the other instruments that regulate the match on the market then I absolutely believe that one part of this rate can also affect the market mechanism of regulation of supply and demand, thus buying or selling or production as a result. And that whoever's gonna be concubine will certainly try to install part of their competition, of course, to the harm of the weaker one. Now, if we're going to use another instrument incentivizing or any other instrument to try to match how much we can in cross-sectoral relations, of course it will depend on the height and possibilities of our resources. But what I think would be a psychological message and, in my opinion, not insignificant, is both a psychological message and a signal and an international investment and capital, as well as a self-indulgence, that we go towards the path of tax discharge. and that we must say from that path that we will do everything and that we are also talking about our self-government tonight and that we are bringing everyone else down to this tax discharge goal in order to achieve indirect incentive measures in investment and development. Of course, none of us can assess tonight, and how indirectly such an instrumentation can be achieved. and therefore, in doubt whether or not, I believe that in this context we should try, and therefore, if we are afraid that the government will not bear any further support, so let it drown, but I have no doubt and need to speed up tax reform with all segments of tax policy. I will try to prepare and pawn a part of the debate that will be related to budgeting, so that we can install that part of the instrumentation in part. With regard to possible doubts whether and in any direction to start, which is the first step, then perhaps there could have been something else, but as it is about preparing the budget, and already embedded in it a part of the social policy that will have to be covered during this period, I also accept the view that the short delay in this context is accepted. So, to conclude, I am defending the position of this terrible risk taken by the Government on itself, to take it over and try to pull it out in the end, and that in the end we will have to submit a report here anyway, and that in this way we will show our intention to enter a very dangerous tax reform cut that we have all announced, but unfortunately we have failed to realise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1066	I'd like to thank the representative, Mr. Rifle. He's got a word, you've got a correction. Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic has a correction to the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1067	Right at the beginning, Mr. Squirt said it would be short and it wouldn't take him 10 minutes, and I think he's over 10 minutes. So I'd like to say that if we say that we're gonna be 10 minutes long to be that long, or if we say that it takes us 20 minutes, then we stick to that time. I like accuracy, so there's a clean order to make a note. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1068	Like this, it's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Someone can announce they'll be talking for 3 or 7 minutes, but they're entitled to 10, and they haven't gone over a minute, because when they start blinking this red one, then they're out of line. The word has Mr. Representative Marko Shirac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1069	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary. Here is exactly how it ends at this time of the 9th anniversary of the adoption of the VAT Act, i.e. about 6.5 years as this law on value added tax is in use and today we can already discuss all the positive and negative effects of the implementation of this law. It is certainly one thing that it is one of the very high-quality laws, and that at the moment when the Croatian Parliament adopted it, it replaced one non-transparent Transport Tax Act in which there were several 10ths, and there could be hundreds of rates for each individual product and that no one could control it and by the adoption of this law we reduced this problem to transparent relations. and which is very interesting I was present here in the Parliament when the debate was held in 1995. and actually came up with three important problems that were opposed to opinions and actually couldn't find a common language like that today. That's first of all the question of the number of feet. In second place it's a matter of the size of a foot or here today we're talking about a decrease here. and the third question, which, as I have noted, is the question of how to calculate, and how to pay the sales tax. So let me put my opinion on all three of these issues. By acting as Minister in Croatia to the government in the previous term, I had the opportunity to meet with state officials from several countries and wanted to or did not want to be in addition to those problems that I was in charge of, and which I have solved, we have always come to the question of value added tax with them and with us. Of all the people I'm on the subject with, which is about 5 or 6 as well as I remember it, they all pointed out if they were in their country to bring, repeat the law on value added tax in order to have only one rate. From practice for the past 6 years, colleagues and colleagues, remember that we have brought a zero rate for bread. The result is always negative whenever it comes to one individual, one individual rate and a rate for some products and services, and it certainly can't be when it comes to one full tax settlement. Because that's two different terms and two different conditions. As you remember, the bread was not cheap for a single kuna because only for it and those few crops are tied to the zero rate of sales tax. Therefore, we should not return to tax solutions for goods and services but rather to other measures at the disposal of the Croatian Government, whether this or another, address certain issues in the economy and in the social sector. And leave one transparent, one right rate, like this one so far was 22% which has provided a solid income and which is also the law that has solved and many other things that have already been spoken of here and I do not want to particularly point out to them. So, I advocate and propose that we stay on a one-foot solution, and what we are now, is in the law not to touch and the other to accept in our further discussions and the Government's proposal, regardless of what it is to promise the Croatian Democratic Community from the pre-election election campaign, but to accept it as one reality that we are going towards tax reform and ask the Government to come out during this and next year with other solutions and proposals for the distribution of various taxes and contributions that our economics and citizens in our country pay for because this is certainly the way towards what we want to achieve in our neighbouring countries to be transparent with us that we have the same conditions or similar conditions of management and that we have the roughly quality of life of our citizens as our neighbours or those with whom we want to integrate in the future. And a few more words about tax returns. From the tax liabilities, VAT always pays the final consumer. Who we really stand for, do we stand for those who are in the system of goods production and transport, or are we in favour of end-users? That should be made clear and loud. In the value added tax system, the holdings have input accounts and exit accounts. The moment you... He delivered the goods, exposed the invoice, and there was a duty to pay taxes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But at the same time, that businessman has the right to refuse pre-tax. Therefore, there is no other condition, it will now wait until he sells the goods there, and he sells the goods in 90% of the cases, especially when it comes to broad spending and our daily needs sell for cash and has a deadline. Therefore, I see no reason to change that too in existing tax solutions. And now, just a few more words. This bill is good for me because I consider it a good basis for starting tax reform. I think he's the three goals you've put in order to lower the base rate from 22 to 20. The Commission therefore considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Or in the delivery of goods and services when they are paid by foreign donations and these donations have been given to our humanitarian organisations to now pass it on to local administration, self-government, schools, whether, health institutions. I think they're very good solutions. And I also advocate, ladies and gentlemen, for tax changes to the criminal provisions because as the existing ruling states in the law that criminal measures can be applied to those who do not keep records of VAT and do not pay VAT, you cannot actually subscribe to anyone under criminal provisions. Now it is separated, or one if it does not do one or the other in any case, the tax authorities come into a situation that can take appropriate measures. And I would end up supporting the bill's proposal because it is the beginning of the realisation and the promises they have made and the beginning of the reform of the tax system and I call on our government to act with other measures at our disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1070	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative, Marco Shirtz. The word has it, Mr. Honorable Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1071	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So the discussion of variation on VAT and VAT rates is set. And this is addressed by the Government's proposal to the Republic of Croatia. The proposal itself sets out the objectives in its explanation of the proposal. On page 2, the proposed reduction of the general tax rate aims to relieve final consumption by reducing tax burden. One of the goals. Then discharging taxpayers second, more effective tax collection, third and curbing the grey economy of the fourth. Now, the proposal to amend and supplement the VAT law is neither based on analysis nor on evaluations or quantifications, nor on the fiscal policy offered nor on an economic policy. It's based on a political promise. And that's respectable. And that's allowed. Only then must we admit that politics is ahead of responsibility, then politics is ahead of responsibility. That there is no statement in the draft law on the social function of the tax system and the tax as a whole, it states. So on the first page of the argument which is true, the value added tax is neutral for the taxpayer. So he doesn't stimulate anyone or prefer anyone. One rate for all taxpayers. And we are discussing today that the differentiation of specifics between the two draft laws, so the government law proposal and the SDP bill, is exactly the difference in the idea of justice for social tax collection. So we really advocate tax cuts, but differentiation. We think that we can also encourage individual activities to be more specific on the European market, so to our neighbours, we are thinking about tourism in particular. Which branch is really under the strong competition of our neighbors. Then we think that it is socially washed and fiscally justified to introduce a differentiated rate, so for tourism as an activity and for child supplies. There are no arguments against it, of course, because there are no arguments for the government's bill either. No quantification, no analysis, no app, any result can then be defended. Because we didn't say anything, we just promised we'd give guarantees. If that were the case, this law has no sanctions. There's no sanctions if it doesn't come true. This is a lex imperfect. Assume the law. A law that has no measure of coercion is not the law. This law has no measure of coercion. If you do not get what the target is set to do. That this is thus a testimony and the opening explanation of Prime Minister Sanader he addresses the Croatian economic and tax bonds of the Republic of Croatia with the appeal of the law is not an appeal. The law has sanctions on the authorities of the state that implement them. Every exception, from the unique tax rate of VAT, is a violation of principles. And the law foresees indeed before and now that there are exceptions to it. So it's not an argument that says you shouldn't have a differentiated rate, but that, by law itself, there's an argument that you should have a differentiated rate. And the proposal that haystacks tax donations, as the circle of individuals can now receive donations. So are the associations. And without the specifications that these are associations. And according to the association law, the association can be registered, not registered. Three men can declare themselves an association. I think it's a money launderer. That's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying in public. We need to limit donations to humanitarian organizations, which are registered. Or what we want cultruple organizations, institutions, on the programs we've adopted, and it has to be registered. It is a purpose for tax discipline in the Republic of Croatia without it it is difficult to conduct tax policy. We don't know what all the possibilities open when the press opens that donations can be given to an unlimited number of associations. An unlimited number of associations. In Croatia mgo also operate foreign associations, according to the current regulation. The aim of discharging the economy, so strengthening the competitive capacity, is nothing to prove. There's nothing to prove. That is why I really think that building a system is appropriate in the countries of the European Union, adapted to Croatian society, social problems are important to the second reading on behalf of the arguments that stand to consider introducing a differential VAT rate. It should not be wise, so as long as these circumstances persist in Croatian society, economy, incompetence in the economy should enable tourism to be competitive with its neighbours. For this reason, I am convinced that the second reading of this law will also respect the SDP proposal, respect the valid arguments and that ultimately the law will be passed in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not in the interest of politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1072	I thank the esteemed representative, Joseph Leka. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Honourable representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1073	Mr. President. Our colleague Leko here assured us that their proposal was a differentiated social rate. However, it seems to me that it is actually incorrect, illogical, and above all unproven because their rates are differentiated according to the type of product, and not according to the social status of customers and consumers. And you haven't even tried to prove this strong connection that a certain type of product that would be with a lower tax burden buys exactly social or socially endangered groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1074	Thank you. Please, no discussion of correcting an incorrect quote. Injury of Rules of Procedure Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1075	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your intervention. But I would also like to say that my colleague, Zvonimir Puljic, is correcting my opinion. He can't do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1076	Thank you. Next to correct an incorrect quote, next, excuse me, distinguished representative Katarina Fuček.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1077	Mr. Leko, a colleague of mine, said President Sanader appealed to uphold the law. That's not true. The president has appealed to the merchants, and surely everyone who's... The law to respect. [[You don't understand.]] I'm correcting in that sense a false allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1078	Thank you very much. Next came Velimir Plesa to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1079	I'm giving up because my colleague Fuchek corrected that assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1080	Thank you. I hope there'll be more like it. Next up is Mr. Jure Bitunj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1081	Mr Leco first said that VATs from the economic point of view are neutral, so that I would add immediately - here I agree - to immediately add that to differentiated rates proposed by SDPs, SDPs to encourage certain economic activities. I think it's in itself a contradiction, a contradiction... So what he said doesn't stand at all. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1082	Thank you very much. I don't think so. You must correct the incorrect allegations, Your Honor. You can't correct someone else's opinion. Thank you. It is next to the honourable representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1083	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. As much as I'm willing to invest, no matter how hard I try, I can't help thinking that everything about this bill is unserious. Unserious from the very beginning since the announcement of the law. The announcement of the VAT reduction was made 5 minutes to 12 literally at the last election in Zagreb. At the time when the public change studies showed that the race would be relatively uncertain. And it's most likely days as a weight that should have been weighed by voters in the decision-making phase. Unseriousness continues to be explained, e.g. given by Minister Zuzul when he said that the reason for the VAT rate reduction is that it's easier to count by 20 than by 22 because it's easier to multiply by 20 than by 22. Today, at a time when people travel into space, robots descend to Mars, Minister Zuzul is an argument to pass this law. The unserious argument given by the government to the MPs under this law is also inconclusive. That's a two-page explanation. The first paragraph of that argument begins as follows: "A value added tax is paid under the Value Added Tax Act." That's very useful information. Otherwise, we wouldn't have known if the government hadn't written it to us. The other three passports are the definition of VAT. The second says VAT is taxing final consumption. Third, VAT falls under indirect taxes. The fourth is that VAT is neutral for the taxpayer. All therefore very important parts of the explanation. So that's where we've already come to half the reasoning with this important law. There's no simulation, there's no charts. There is no representation of the situation in other countries, neither of the transition nor of other European countries. There is no rational argument that, with this explanation, would be presented to the MPs. There is only political will, or obligation, or guarantee given at the last pre-election meeting. There are MPs, Mr. Arlovic cited the situation in other countries. Mr. Tadic came with the charts. Other MPs quickly here in the benches made calculations, which would mean a reduction of these 2% for individual products. The government didn't bother to make a single calculation. Something about the method of making it. It's in the parliamentary procedure, we've heard it a hundred times referred to the SDP proposal, a different proposal to amend this law. It's irrational to discuss the same thing twice. However, the government did not give an opinion on this SDP proposal, so today we are not having a united debate but will discuss the SDP proposal at the second, third, fifth session when the government arrives. Why? Well, this isn't an accident. Well, the government wasn't in such a rush that she didn't have time to give an opinion. No, but if we had a united debate then we could justifiably compare two proposals, then it would appear that the SDP's proposal is in favour of the citizens. This was to be avoided and is therefore being debated in a way that is being discussed, so that it is not completely revealed and clear here that this inter-disciplinary tourism rate is more favourable for tourism, that it is more beneficial for the Republic of Croatia, for the development of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. It would also appear that the zero rate for children's needs or for food products is more favourable for citizens. Like this, what happens if this law passes, and I have no doubt it will pass. The product that costs 122 kunas today will cost 120 kuna. A product that costs 10 kunas and 22 limes will cost 10 kunas and 20 limes. It will be a great relief for the citizens, they will notice. Yeah, those two limes will notice, it'll raise their standard of living. And that is said in the light of a proposal like this. Will that please anyone? It will, it will. It will, it will. First of all, traders, traders because when they sell a large series of certain products, a large number of pieces of a particular product then earn 2% on that product means a lot to them as traders. They will, they will, and they will make sure those who buy the new BMW. It will, it will. The price reduction there will be obvious. They agree with this proposal of HDZ law. To them and to them alone. The most inconclusive, and I must admit, is the most spiritual explanation of the prime minister this morning and his appeal to merchants that they still shrink by 2%. It would be about as if we were fighting alcoholism as a social evil by sending the prime minister's appeal to the drunks to drink less. Or it's as if we're fighting crime so that the prime minister can appeal to thieves to steal less.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1084	I ask you not to insult the Prime Minister in your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1085	I don't insult the Prime Minister. I repeat what he said this morning. He urged traders to cut prices by 2% as if traders did not react marketly, according to the laws of supply and demand formed the price of goods. And traders form their price so that they can make a profit. It's completely naive, illusory to believe that they could react to appeals. The proposal is unconstitutional. In fact, it could have waited, that's what's already been said here, so if you wanted to change the tax policy, which is certainly the right of the government, then to pass a whole series of laws that would be mutually harmonised, and from whose reasons it would be clear what you want to achieve. Because for example, if we lift the VAT rate on information equipment, then we know what we're trying to achieve. Then we want this information equipment to be cheaper for citizens, to make it easier for people to get to this information equipment and for young people to get informational descriptions. That's what we want to do. That's why taxes change because society, the government says, I want to encourage something. If we had a whole set of laws, then we could find out what the government really wants to achieve in society. This is how we don't have it. We don't have it, and given this delay in application for next year, you can actually say, it's not even the fulfillment of the promise. This is a promise that the promise will be fulfilled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1086	I thank the honourable representative for the debate, and we have several corrections of incorrect allegations. Actually, one. Dear Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1087	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The inaccuracy of fellow Stazic is that this is an unserious approach and an unserious law. That this is an inconclusive argument, that it's only a promise made for a promise. Mr. Stazic, you yourself have denied yourself by saying that HDZ suggested this last hour because he was not sure of his victory. So if that's why he won, it means people recognize it's good for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1088	Thank you. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1089	Mr. President, counterpart Stazic has ironicd the prime minister's statement that he said so, which urged traders not to raise prices after VAT cuts. I didn't take the line because the prime minister couldn't stand the irony of Mr. Stazic. But I'm worried that it's actually behind that message. If the appeal is ironically rejected as a means, does Mr. Stazic think that legal repression should work? That's what's worrying, just what's not said, but it came out of a sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1090	Thank you. The answer to the line, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1091	No, MP Stazic simply thinks that the appeal cannot lead tax policy and that it is unserious by the prime minister that appeals are governed by tax policy rather than by laws and legal proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1092	The next call came the distinguished representative Ivo Lonachar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1093	Mr. Vice President, here's my double colleague Nenad Stazic, or else we're colleagues here in the Assembly, and we used to be on the Croatian Radio, though he was then reading my texts as a speaker, so he brought me into a big delusion saying seriously, I don't know when my friend Nasha was serious about whether in those four years he was in power or now, so at one point he says like this, I wrote it, and I'm going to quote what he said, "There's no argument, no chart, not a single display of this law, or a reduction of VAT." So how much my dear Nasha while you were in power you passed a law where there was no logic or any argument but you were right because you had enough hands in the air. I've only taken a chance once to get into world history and into the Guiness Book of Records to declare this Parliament an overseas ship because you've had enough hands in the air for you weren't worth the arguments or the facts. Then I don't know how my other Neshi suddenly woke up a Democrats, I don't really know when he was a Democrats whether or not he was from 91 to 95 when he was a spokesman for HDZ or today when he became a professional socialist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1094	Thank you. The answer to the line, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1095	In the name of my own dignity, I refuse to answer the line only I ask you to warn the representative not to beat me, my name is Nenad, we are not in such intimate relations to beat me, there is a left-hand side of the HDZ can beat them because he bowed down to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1096	For the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1097	Mr. Vice President, a colleague of Loncar has injured Article 214 and you have therefore had to give him a warning, because here in the House we are talking to colleagues, gentlemen, representatives, names and last names, not friends, because we can only be among the same party and people who are close to each other by political beliefs, this is not by fellow Stazic and fellow Loncar. They weren't, and they weren't, so you shouldn't go down to such a level that with insults and lunches we both title each other, and I think you guys should have given Loncar a heads-up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1098	I appeal to tolerance in this High House. Mr Vujic called in a breach of the Rules of Procedure if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1099	Yes, Mr. Vice President, in the same sense as Mrs. Zgrebec. You must protect, you are obliged to protect the dignity of the representatives of this house, and you cannot allow insult, you cannot allow someone to impute some of the political intentions to question beyond what any representative is talking about, so I ask you to act on behalf of the future sessions of this House as you should.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1100	I will try to protect the integrity of every MP and Mr Ivo Lončar has last reported to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1101	Mr. Vice President, colleague Vujic, colleague Zgrebec and colleague Stazic have injured Article 214. I did not hurt him, to what Mrs. Zgrebec said on behalf of the integrity of this Assembly I will not answer what Mr. Vujic said either, and after 20 years of dating I can say that he is my friend Neša because no one at "Worked Zagreb" read my texts as well as he did.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1102	I once again appeal to the dignity of this House. On behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1103	On behalf of the SDP Club, please pause for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1104	I'm setting a break of 15 minutes at 17 and 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1105	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! After this interruption, which was requested by the Club of Representatives of the SDP by the SDP, I examined the phonogram from this part of the session before I give the word to the SDP Club president, I ask the representatives to really make sure that this is a Croatian assembly, to make sure that the dignity and dignity of the highest legislative or representative body in Croatia should always be on the heart and on the tongue, that we do not treat each other independently of which we are political parties to be on the trail of the rivalry, the slowdown of arguments, but not on the trail that no malignant bribery or insults should be taken in any other way than good, good customs impose, unwritten rules of conduct, communication and mutual behaviour, to cross them, but not to misjudge anything that should not be properly understood in this way and in any way. Please, indeed, it is in our mutual interest to be both discreet and democratic and to really maintain this assembly as a political arena at one level where it should be in one general sense. It is also important to have our capacity as representatives and representatives of both the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public. We know that we do not have a very special prestige in the public, as it is viewed as the role of the Croatian Parliament, its importance and we have that in mind before we speak any word, either on our own behalf, or on behalf of the party, or on behalf of the clubs. Please also a colleague or colleague who, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, will present his position and suggestions that he is particularly paying attention, it is not any particular warning of his colleague Opačić but it is only one appeal that no, some sparks do not need to be opened. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1106	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, it was really us from the SDP Club that were never the ones who lit the fire in this House. So we won't do it this time. I just want to say that we were looking for a break for the SDP Club because it was the only way to end the insult and humiliation of our representative Nenad Stazic. I would also like to say that we respect the failure of the new Vice President of the Parliament, who may lead the session for the second or third time. We know that this is not easy, but we had to react because the chairman was twice warned from the SDP ranks that Article 214 was violated. The Rules of Procedure should also respond to the protection of Trazic's representative or, better said, the representative's dignity and the dignity of this home. Since this has not been done and further insult and disdain of the representatives has been continued, we have therefore sought a break from the club. Given what Mr. Seks as president of the Parliament just earlier said about what unfortunately reputation we have in the Croatian public, I would like to say that, that you and Prime Minister Sanader have already advocated tolerance here and on several occasions. I hope that by your behavior you will show in practice how much you are for tolerance, therefore not only in words but also in your concrete parts. Likewise, each of those who chair the Assembly's session as well as any representative who speaks here will show their tolerance. How much of this House's dignity is kept, each individual representative, and at the end of the day each chairman must also keep the authority of the chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1107	The word is represented by Mr. Mato Brletić. Here you go. ... Here you go, Mr. Lonchar. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1108	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, a colleague of Milanka Opačić said: "We asked for a break to end the insults and demeaning of our representative". I didn't insult or disrespect anyone. I'd like to know something about the Rules of Procedure. There's nothing in our Rules of Procedure that says that someone can't be called a friend or a friend. That's one word that lives like any other word. I'm very fond of her because she comes from a very melodious language like French, in France she's a friend, and so on. Well, colleague, so I can call the boss of your party now, Mr. or Comrade.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1109	Okay, thank you very much, Mr. Lonchart. My colleagues and colleagues, please, I read a carefully phonogram, I wasn't in the assembly, those who had heard. If someone's holding on to him, not to accept that kind of communication, that's how he's called, then let's rephrase it. We can either you and I, or anyone who thinks it isn't, and I don't think it's offensive or demeaning. But if someone really right away does not need to get into some relationship with names related to some previous work and relationships, then please let us avoid it, and please do not insult some, not to be accepted as an insult lightly something that, if it was not both intent and intent. Let's get over it, but we make sure that none of us do anything he doesn't want to do to him. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Dear Representative Mate Brletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1110	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs. As a representative of the Democratic Centre, I fully accept the proposed legislative proposal, which should relieve the tax burden of final consumption, and in... to relieve taxpayers of corporate business. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] What I think about as an added proposal is that, at the time of the second reading, consideration is given to establishing a calm rate for tourist accommodation compared to a 20% general, so that at the same time in Article 10a. deletes the point h, thus removing zero per cent of the services of the organised stay of foreign tourists who are paid with foreign money, including not only accommodation, but also accommodation with breakfast, half or full board in all types of commercial catering facilities. Agency commission services for these services transfers, buses, and vessels. I think the positive effects of the proposed changes would be multiple. First, at a lower rate of 10 to 15% whose account I will later present would achieve the same revenues of the state budget, and would be prices of services, accommodation, more competitive, in more competitive countries of the environment. And that is, none of them have an extra value tax rate for tourist accommodation above 12% and some zero rate, for example, Turkey. Secondly, it would be equated in terms of tax burden on the business of the agencies. Namely, if the agency... Foreign contracts and via it shall be effected by payment of a fee for accommodation, or accommodation with breakfast, half or full board in all types of commercial catering facilities, tours, transfers, buses and sails, shall not pay an additional value tax on its agency commission. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] And the domestic agency is obliged to pay at the level of the general VAT rate. Third, the price policy in tourism would no longer be run by foreign tour operators, but would be run by domestic tourist entrepreneurs. Fourthly, entrepreneurs couldn't... Before tax, the costs relating to food and drink, telecommunications and other services and costs, as there is no pretax tax on accommodation costs. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Fifthly, the reduced prices of tourist accommodation would allow a slow change in the trend in tourist transport, with domestic tourists making 15% of the total number of tourists, and 11% in total overnight stays the same in favour of domestic tourists. Instead of their departures to a cheaper tourist... abroad or paying abroad. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] It is totally unacceptable that, for example, if you pay in Slovenia the same tourist service has a price below 20% and 22%, respectively, compared to the price paid in Globtour in Croatia. In short, the bill indicating that the income of the tax on additional value would be the same according to our proposal. Starting with data on nights achieved in 11 months 2003, according to the State Statistics Institute and in this share of foreign tourists in organized arrivals adjusted for... the nights agreed by the agencies. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Which gives 25% of the total number of nights achieved and the individuality of the organized. And if spending is 50 euros per night, we include food, drink and other services of about 2.3 billion euros. From the current rate of 22% of the state budget revenue was then lower by 980 million kuna per... Zero VAT rates for services in the organised stay of foreign tourists to be paid by foreign transfers. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] If we include in the account a 20% VAT rate and 12% for accommodation that accounts for 60% of total income, VAT revenues are fully equalised. Even 36 million... Taxation on additional value is more transparent, accommodation prices are lower, entrepreneurs and agencies in the means and tourism are equal as domestic and foreign tourists, most importantly. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] We're running politics on our own, and... development policy in tourism. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] It will no longer happen that finance ministers do not recognise in VAT revenues that tourism traffic has increased. The second proposal to amend this legislative proposal, proposed by the Democratic Centre in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament, concerns the inclusion of personal computers with their periphery for special needs, and for the purposes of institutions carrying out the activities of education with zero percent of VAT, which we now repeat. It is unnecessary to present broccoic reasons about the benefit of using personal computers. Their purchase, however, is an insurmountable problem for many of the existing economic situation. On import, personal vocabulary and their periphery are exempt from customs payments. Pores know the extra value of a substantial purchase. At the same time on books, professional, medical, artistic and cultural education, content textbooks for pedagogical education and education for basic secondary higher education printed on paper or on other...text included in CDs, video tapes, audio tapes, and scientific journals of value added tax at zero rate. Personal computers are intended for the same category of consumption. According to data from the State Statistics Institute in 2002, less than $95 million of personal computers were introduced with their periphery. In fact, less than 160 million kuna taxes were charged, to the added value. This amounts to PCs for personal needs and for the need of institutions in the activities of education and education of less than 25% or around 40 million kuna, which is below two prominences from the revenues of the state budget from the value added tax. Without information literacy, education in primary, secondary and higher education will soon be unimaginable. The need for permanent education during the working life will become unreachable without the use of personal computers. Starting with the provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, everyone is obliged to participate in the settlement of public costs in accordance with their economic opportunities, on the principle of equality, justice. And that the state protects children, youth and creates social, cultural, educational materials and other conditions that promote the right to a decent life. So that everyone should be made available under the same conditions as high school, high school education according to his abilities. With basic education as mandatory and free of charge, it is necessary to tax the purchase of personal computers by zero rate for personal use. and that the needs of institutions dealing with the activities of raising and education. In some areas where a small number of students are not able to organize classes in school facilities, classes are organised remotely, and personal computers are already irreplaceable. Instead of transporting students from dislocated homes, especially on our islands the solution would be to carry out teaching through personal computers. Employment and home affairs would be encouraged if the price of the purchase of the computer was made available. We suggest that the proposed amendments and additions to the proposed legislative proposal are analysed in detail in time to the second reading, the verifications based on additional data, namely in June of the current year are agreed on the prices of tourist services for the following year. So the entry into force of this legislative proposal is not questionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1111	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. It is up to you, dear colleague Antesic, to be your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1112	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I will only limit myself in short lines to some effects that will reduce the rate of VAT on tourism. In fact, such a proposal to reduce the VAT rate will have absolutely no practical effect on tourism. That is why we believe that the proposal should certainly be corrected and introduced, so they differentiate the rate of 12%. On the assumption that a zero rate would remain for the organisation of foreign arrivals, such a proposal would have a strong law and effects would also have a strong and promotional asset for Croatian tourism and would increase the concreteity of Croatian tourism compared to our rival countries. And I estimate it somewhere for a 10% circus. According to the information we have with the online fairs across Europe, some of us rival countries especially Turkey and Portugal have announced a reduction in the price of their services by 20%. By reducing the VAT rate, it would give a really strong message that the Croatian state is behind a strategically important branch. These would also be extremely large in this way. Next, for the 2004 tourist season, hoteliers announce an increase in the price of services and this accommodation is about 5, 10%. And your pension spending is from 10% to 15%. By reducing the rate, therefore, by introducing that rate by reducing to 12%, these addition effects would be fully analyzed. Furthermore, the possibility of granting discounts for the domestic tourism market would be created, and thus increase domestic tourism transport. The tourist economy would be scattered and conditions of business improved. As finally and truly, tourism would gain the importance of the strategic economic branch and, with its resources, it would send a generator of overall economic development to undo the initial negative effects on the state register. For example, the hotel company Imprial Rab, which is not so insignificant in Croatian frameworks, would have a 12% differentiated rate in value for the company Kirka 6 million kuna. What does that mean? This means that a complete reflection of the cold drive would be covered in winter months by that amount, or that would mean 3 gross salaries, or a complete preparation of a tourist season for which no credit should be taken. For all Croatian tourism, and in particular, and indirectly for the whole economy, it would actually have immeasurable effects. Therefore, we believe that tourism should certainly introduce a differentiated rate because such a reduction proposal for two index points of effect for tourism will be practically zero. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1113	Thank you, dear colleague. It's my dear fellow Churchman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1114	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance. Ahead of the 2000 vote, the SDP coalition, HSLS declared a VAT reduction. When we summed it all up, we concluded that it was not good and we joined a reduction in contributions, a reduction in labour prices, a reduction in the cost of entrepreneurship and a reduction in profit tax. I think he'd do it again. But it's not 2000 now. By the way, my colleague Shuker, who isn't here, I told him at the time, clearly on this yellow paper from 2000, no VAT cuts. This was to be said in early 2000 under the conditions when the VAT reduction was promised. By the way, I tell him, that's what a churchman of thick dark hair said in condition, etc. So, the collection of other people's money, the settlement of other people's accounts is a very difficult discipline. However, I believe to my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance and the Government that they have now well summed up and found that a reduction of VAT is possible. I'm going from that point of view. In addition, if that is the case, I think it would be an honor to Croatian parliamentaryism if we were to have a situation where there are several proposals on how to reduce VAT because it is not the same way to reduce it. If all these proposals could be analysed, then compare at the same time and analyse and see arguments for and against. We are in this situation, at this point, unable. Namely, the party in power is always able to stop some other proposals by procedural and other means, and to go with its proposals. I know it's done, but I think it would be an honor to do things differently and to make suggestions for all who arrive on the same subject, so the VAT cuts look at each other, cross arguments, and then we all make the best decision that is in the interest of Croatia and the Croatian economy. In particular, it would be important to look at this possibility of reducing VAT as a whole of economic policy. So, with the fact whether to reduce VAT or not, the key question is how to do it, and for this it is important to what kind of economic policy is being led. However, we have not heard any concrete other proposals on economic policy, on measures to be taken, or on what will continue to be done in tax policy. Allow me, the VAT last year brought 28 billion 129 million kuna. It is huge money that has an impact on the entire economic policy, on the whole economy and on the entire fiscal policy as one of the 5 key economic policies. If something changes, then it should be explained when VAT changes explain what is being done and what is economic policy in the water as a whole and what will be done in other areas of tax policy. It's common sense. I also remember that there are no figures in the Programme of Government that we received on 41 pages except for the numbering of pages, and there are no figures in the 75-page HDZ Programme. I would therefore like to see what a more concrete economic and tax policy this VAT reduction proposal is in. On top of that, on this occasion, I would like to say that the government has advocated tax redistribution of entrepreneurship. This means that we expect in this Croatian Parliament a reduction in labour prices, contributions, a reduction in income tax and other labour costs because the government programme states that tax cuts will dynamic the economy. By reducing VAT, it doesn't seem. The VAT is an indirect consumption tax which has nothing to do with the economy and which has no effect on the position of entrepreneurs. He's a consumption tax simply. So I expect that we get the proposals and the cuts in the other taxes as promised. Let me point out that each of us has the responsibility to look at the proposal. The VAT is an absolutely unfair tax. This is also known in theory and all countries in their practice confirm it. The VAT is an unfair tax. Therefore, in its design, the mechanisms that it is accomplishing need to alleviate this injustice, especially social injustice. It exerts a strong pressure on those who have fewer incomes proportionally higher than those who have higher incomes. And therefore, of the 15 countries of the European Union, 14 have an interrelationship. Of the 10 countries that will be members of the European Union in May, all ten have an interdependence. Of the 25 countries, 24 countries in Europe have interrelationships. What are our reasons for not having it? One too rich Switzerland has two steps, because it takes care of the fact that it is not the same as pushing the average person who lives and who has the yacht, the BMW and the plane. I must express my misunderstanding here how the Croatian Party of Retired Party accepts a proposal that is completely unfair compared to those with smaller incomes and with all pensioners. A proposal that would respect, differentiated rate and that for food, for tourism, for children's clothing, etc. Introduce a 12% rate, significantly better the situation conditionally for those with lower incomes, and burden those with higher incomes. Of course, we have in mind the problem of righteousness in taxation. Take the article 51 of our Constitution, take Article 1 of our Constitution and others to which it is quite clear. In particular, I would point out the following. I'm a little surprised why the waist around this doesn't come out more precisely. Someone was already talking about it today. It is the principle of efficiency in economic and tax policy. The point is that in many positions and many entities, and they do not even feel that they are comfortable, a significant fiscal income is expensive. That's all the wisdom of tax policy. We're losing a significant tax income here without any of it feeling anything and benefiting from the individual. If he loses his budget and if he can handle what I accept, then at least let's make someone benefit from those who are more socially vulnerable in this country and certainly what we might call the most intelligent policy. Gentlemen and ladies, reducing VAT to zero, this was about the newspaper that's in our proposal, but now I'm not getting into it, to children's supplies and children's clothing. It'd be a real resourceful measure in economic policy. Instead of fire-fighting demographic measures such as the introduction of a supplement, a maternity supplement which I can also accept, but which will not change things at all. But to reduce the sensitive VAT for children's needs this should indeed and ask yourself, answer your voters why this would not be better, together with a reduction in the costs and prices of food and tourism taking care of both the environment and all the countries around us from a linear reduction in VAT rate by two points. I see that the time has elapsed, so maybe I should just touch that, that the VAT proposal that would introduce the rate for agriculture and nutrition, tourism and children's supplies, children's food and clothing is more thrift-saving from the budget's point of view about 800 million minimum of this proposal, and it has all the other good effects. Let's think about it until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1115	Thank you very much, Mr. Churchman. The word has a proposal representative, Mr. Schucker, Minister of Finance. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I didn't think there'd be a need to report, because this morning there's been a lot said, but after the debate of the esteemed representative of the Church, it turns out that someone from HDZ was last year, four years of the minister of finance, not the esteemed representative of the Church. I'd just like to remind you of something. The 99th VAT revenue was 19 billion and 829 million, and this revenue was announced to decrease 5%, so at a rate of 17%, and then it was feasible. However, this has not been done in four years, but today when it comes to the first step of tax reform and when VAT revenues are 28 billion, it is said that this is impossible. The second thing for all these tax proposals was opportunities at the last session of the Parliament as well as so fortified many laws. Secondly, I would be happy if as finance minister, I came across other than unpaid obligations and contracts that are being interpreted very strangely in the Croatian public today, so it is no longer a signature, the obligation is not an obligation, the consolidated balance is not a consolidated balance, the public debt is not a public debt, the external debt is not an external debt but it is all something different. It turns out that according to the laws that rule in Croatia, every minister can do all the work he wants and then it will be paid in some future periods. So if I, as finance minister, also encountered a proposal for tax reform as a legacy from the former ministry, I would probably not now discuss, in front of, or react to this debate. But I have to say, as it costs, this "costs" under quotes, the reduction in linear rates of 2% so costs the same and the introduction of differentiated rates. However, it is very interesting that in all the scientific publications that appear in the last two years in Europe, it is said that all tax experts propose to go two feet and to go slowly in the future towards one rate of value added tax for several reasons. Another thing when we speak justness of the differentiated rate, and when we look at what I said in my last announcement, 300 thousand Croats are not in tax dollars as far as income tax is concerned. Then one elemental question arises, for whom does the untaxable part of income tax increase? And another thing, how are we going to estimate what products are supposed to be in a differentiated rate that would affect the very 300 thousand Croats and millions of pensioners who are not taxpayers, and that they are buying these products, that from that basis they are privileged to be some kind of social effect. So, on behalf of the promoter, on behalf of the Croatian government, I give every right to, which is normally democratic, that it can come out with its argument. However, very interestingly, MP Tadic said that the opposition in the past 4 years has strongly suggested a differentiated rate for you that you did not want to hear or hear but that you were talking about reducing the rate like this. Now that the rate's down, now that that's wrong, you need to make a differentiated rate. So let's talk about the consistency of something and the consistency of politics. I say, unfortunately, I have not seen a single proposal for tax reform in the materials I found at the Ministry of Finance. But what breaks any doubt, this is the first step towards tax reform to be approached by this government. I now have strong enquiries from Croatian citizens who cannot get confirmation from their tenants that they are tenants, to take advantage of the privilege. And there's a question of what will be the effect of this or that. Therefore, some effects must be seen as regards new income tax exemptions in order to access the final income tax reform, in order to access the final income tax reform and to bring income tax into some fair taxation, rather than taxation, which, unfortunately, is more favourable to those who have more money. On the other hand, the tax is paid not on the total income achieved but on the type of income. And contributions are a special story. To talk about reducing the contribution rather than determining the fiscal potential and capacity as regards the collection of contributions, because at this point the biggest problem of government finances with public debt is the minuses of funds, pension and health and which ultimately settle from this tax work, would be extremely unserious. Because we're talking about reducing the pension rate by 1% or 2%, and we don't really know how much in the Croatian state budget should come with the basics of pension and health I don't think it would be serious. From an estimate of the Tax Administration, somewhere around 40% of Croats are currently getting one salary, while the other is being accounted for by contributions. I would also like to say a Law on Mandatory Contributions, which has greatly upset Croatian peasants, journalists who have been brought in to, although this assembly has been warned here. But I must also say that the former ministry and the former minister did not sign the regulation, but the regulation welcomed the new government, although it was announced in the 10th month that those 20,000 payments could be raised as regards the payment of compulsory pension and health contributions, although it is clear by law that the obligation will arise at the time of the tax application. The law at the time of adoption said it should come to the Croatian budget, from that extended foundation of pension and health care somewhere around a billion and a half kuna. But only 300 million kunas were collected. But everywhere in the world, when the tax base is expanded and the number of those who need to pay taxes is extended, then it has to lead to a reduction of another tax. Unfortunately, we've expanded the base of those who need to pay taxes, but we haven't cut contributions. And now again, when the income tax returns are filed, there will be a problem with those 20 thousand people who were sent tickets at the 10th month, so it's said to throw it away, you don't have to pay it now, but it's not said that they have to pay it in the 6th or 7th month. And that's the same rule, one law that will have to be done because it's illogical that large pensioners, farmers who have some kind of income on the side, have to pay pension and health. I'm saying, there's a lot of unspeakable, a lot of things that unfortunately in the projections, I haven't been able to see. I apologize if it exists somewhere in the Ministry of Finance wasn't. But today you say this with those huge billions left as a commitment to this government to pay in 2004 I don't think it's right at least.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1117	Correction of an incorrect quote,... She's got a word for me. [[You don't understand.]] Here you go, fellow Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1118	She would like to correct Minister Shuker in one of his findings, which is going through several presentations by fellow MPs. In fact, when VAT was 19 billion in the budget as income, then we proposed a reduction. Today when it's 28 billion we're against. Today, but no one, no one, no clubs or individual representatives spoke, opposed the reduction in VAT rates, but we had objections in the way the government proposes. We made proposals and models thinking that in such a way we could, let me put it this way, resolve the VAT collection issue more justly for one category of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1119	Thank you very much, colleague Zgrebec. Correction of an incorrect quote, colleague of the Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1120	I'm sorry the Minister of Finance fixed something I said when he wasn't here. I said that in 2000 it was not possible to implement the promise made by the SDP coalition, HSLS, and I remain with it. I said in the beginning of 2000 it wouldn't be a good thing to do and it wouldn't be done. Instead, the contributions from the second were reduced. I now agree that it is possible to reduce the VAT rate and no one claims that it is not possible, as the minister claims I said. It is feasible to reduce the VAT rate and I accept that it is going to reduce the VAT rate. VAT is a very unfair tax. However, if you have proposed to go to a differentiated rate, which would be the right solution, I am surprised now that a linear rate is proposed. Also, the claim that in the European countries...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1121	Thank you very much, time is up, I must tell you that this part of what you last said is not based on the rules of procedure as a correction of an incorrect quote but an extension of the debate you had before this and it was not correct of you that you misused the Rules of Procedure. Please, colleague, I will explain immediately to you, your colleague has asked for a correction of the incorrect assumption that does not exist in the Rules of Procedure, and he has asked for a replica of the correcting of the incorrect assumption that does not exist in the Rules of Procedure, he is angry that I simply cannot give him the floor because in the Rules of Procedure we do not have a standstill for it, here is only to understand why a colleague is angry. He could at any personal exposure from anyone, he went out. Okay, somebody's got to be guilty. Thank you very much. We're moving on with the debate. It's my dear colleague Sockovic's turn. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1122	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It is obvious that all parties are agreed to reduce the value added tax but that different approaches to the solution to the problem, and so far there are two models, one is a reduction in VAT rates from 22% to 20% and the other is the application of differentiated rates. As a result of the implementation of both models, there is a lack of budget resources for the 3 billion kuna circus, and throughout the previous presentations of opposition MPs, there is a constant motif of how to sow and 3 billion in the budget. I listened very carefully to Mr. Cacic, who claims without a trace, and here is Mr. Churchvenac, that there is a reserve in the future budget to cut the value added tax for these 2%, and they as former ministers certainly know it well and there is no reason not to trust them. Nothing else is claimed by our government but that there are reserves in the budget to make up for that 2%. Well, I don't think that in further discussions we should be constantly burdened with how we're going to sow these 3 billion because it's obvious that this is possible, so the further flow should focus and spend more time on realistically looking at the positive effects of reducing the value added tax rate from 22 to 20%. I think that the Croatian government, led by President Sanader, should be given recognition for at least three things, and that is responsible for the consistent implementation of the pre-election promise, for the courage to practically begin tax reform with this act, and for the wisdom to delay the application of this Law to a reasonable period. The government's proposal to reduce the value added tax rate from 22% to 20% aims primarily to increase the standards of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and there is no aim at making it an additional source of earnings for traders. In this way, Croatia is ruling through a 2% VAT reduction of these 3 billion kuna circuses, the same one investing in increasing the standards of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We all have to work together to improve standards and thus traders who could follow the good intentions of the Croatian government and themselves reduce some of their prices through their trade margins, which are certainly possible for them, and if they would reduce in this way, they would certainly have significant effects for the citizens, and traders would make up for it through increased traffic, which would reflect market relations and competition, rather than our appeals, because the logical price reduction encourages greater consumption. The way in which these 3 billion kunas in the budget will be compensated has more to do with what the Prime Minister and Finance Minister have said, this should not be spent, but it should certainly be kept in mind that Croatia has not achieved its fiscal ceiling. Tax reform in the Republic of Croatia is necessary and this is only the first step and it becomes logical that the application cannot go immediately because the law must be passed and the conditions for implementing the law, so I think its application is 1. 1. In 2005, very realistic and only indicates how serious the government has come to solve this problem. So I suggest we support the government's proposal to cut the value added tax from 22% to 20%.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1123	Thank you, dear colleague Sockovic. It's time for the esteemed colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1124	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, by listening to this debate and clubs, the first thing I have to notice is that so far there has been no concrete programme of tax reform and everything else, unlike the Croatian party of rights, has a concrete programme and has answers to these questions. In fact, when I say the program, then I think that the program does not contain what should be done but must have law and developed instruments how and how to implement it. I am telling you this because of the following fact because today the things that the Croatian Party has already brought to the Croatian Parliament have been brought forward for years and have been officially directed to the Croatian Parliament, so there was an opportunity to introduce them earlier and they have not been introduced. The situation, meanwhile, is even more difficult if we remember the next fact that it is a sovereign debt, means a total debt of nearly 23 billion dollars, that our deficit is budgetary according to these latest data from the finance minister means almost 6.8% of GDP. Also, if our trade deficit was over $7 billion, and God forbid we have one bad tourist season, we don't know what state state state the state's finances would be. Other huge problems are that the government's borrowing did not lead to new employment, and this economic growth will be smaller because these funds are invested normally in highways that we need and that's why I say there will be a lot of problems. The government doesn't have an easy task, and the undeniable fact is the next thing we're up for. Namely, it is necessary to change and reform the tax system. Our tax system today is neither developmental nor social but essentially serving, its fundamental purpose is to fill the state budget. And that's the important thing to do in the state. In order to increase our standard of citizens, the standard of citizens can be increased by new employment. It is the only measure of rights that will lead to the rise of Croatian citizens' standards. We know how high our unemployment rate is, and therefore, tax policy must be one that also the tax budget will be one that will be developed for us. There are a lot of solutions and opportunities to do this, but one other important thing is that instruments have to be introduced to get what the state is doing to her by law. Minister Schuker himself said that unfortunately we charge up to 75% of VAT in customs. He said that between 25 and 30 billion kunas were not picked up by what belonged to the state. And therefore, the fact that the rate will be reduced does not mean that it will be better to collect what belongs to the state. But before this part, I'm going to put out a few programming principles, concrete things, how and how better to pick up. I'd just say one thing, and that's an important difference what the Prime Minister told us today that VAT reduction is aimed at consumers. It means consumers will feel it. I will just remind myself that this means that Antun Babic, like, according to one interview I have, is one of the creators of the HDZ economic programme, said in an interview on December 3, 2003, quote: "the VAT reduction is not aimed towards the end consumer anyway." So there's one part of the discrepancy between what was said and what one of the strategists said. So we are constructive and we want to fix the situation and first of all we have to warn one part that we need to do it urgently to reduce the share of the grey economy in GDP because that rate is quite high for us. There are concrete things. In fact, I am now aware of why the prolonged application of this Law is prolonged because it is obvious that they are aware in the government that the collecting mechanisms are not at such a level that all of this could be done. And that's the hardest part. I'm just going to take one particular example. I'm glad that after eight years someone remembered to introduce the stamps on the flour. This is a problem that is already 8 years old, and according to some of the blackest estimates, there is an annual bake of up to 500 thousand tonnes, and if these estimates were correct, but the estimates are moving from 300 to 500 thousand, that means that the state stays between 2 and 4 billion kuna a year. That's not a small amount. This is not a small amount and obviously it is necessary to develop instruments because I am not happy with the fact that the Minister of Agriculture said he would do so in 2, 3 months or until a new harvest. That's what needs to be done right away. The other important thing, we've heard a lot here, but I have to say it specifically. Many of the things that happen with our instruments, it's your system of state registers, no longer being introduced in wholesale or retail, and it means encouraging the gray economy because it's a state register that would cost the state up to 300 euros. The program is given by the state, and when the inspector arrives, he will always be able to determine the undisputed fact that there has been no sale beyond all of this. That's an example, and in Italy, we know how their financial police work. Get out of the store anywhere you'll be asked for an account. If you don't have an account, they'll punish you, or they'll tell you nicely if you know that if you didn't take the bill, you've damaged the school, you've damaged the welfare, everything else. And if he walks into the owner's store where he bought it, if there's no telling what's next. Therefore, and we ourselves know the variations that are now being done, it's not a secret. Let's say for example in the coffee shop account. It was cash 80, 100 kuna. In the end, if you leave the bill, they'll leave you at the end of the day, there'll be 77 bills left, you'll have nothing left but water. There is therefore a great deal of opportunity to collect everything that belongs to the State. This fact is also true that Minister Shuker said that in the main tourist season, I do not have any damage to the revenue from the excise duties of an oil derivative. It just means that it points to one variant of the fuel tank coming out of Croatia fictitically, and it did not actually go out to Croatia, but is sold on black. There are many such and various other variants, and the situation is very simple. Auto-schools already have that. Put on a chip and you know at any moment you can check where that tanker was. So we have to do what? We need to introduce financial discipline to get the state to pick up what belongs to it on one side and the savings. Look at one variant. This problem is that we have over 90% of the banks in foreign hands and on one side. And on the other hand, we don't have our real state banks, and we definitely have to have it, because watch out for us... The state budget goes through the Economic Bank, right? - she doesn't have the status of a state bank. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] And we know what kind of loans foreign banks give. They give such loans to the citizens, they're the safest, the citizens are in charge of more than 50 billion kunas, it's not a small amount. And entrepreneurs get credits, but they already have to buy goods from that bank, so the side where she has an interest in all that. Therefore, there are many variations and many situations, but we need to introduce these instruments and so this way the possibility and reduction of VAT rates will be obtained. And let's just say I'm not talking about an example of a cigarette, how it might happen that TDR cigarettes are sold on gray, let's say at the salary of this and the one without a stamp. It's impossible, it's very simple, it's easy to place four inspectors who will keep changing and at any moment it'll be known whether it went or didn't come out of any amount. The same variant happens with that possibility of TDR cigarettes, for example, appears the same, but has Republika Srpska's stamp. So it's the same variant that it's a huge smuggling. And how to do that, the state needs to take what's hers and that way with our proposals I think it can bring both reduction and development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1125	Thank you, dear colleague Kovacevic. It's my dear fellow Banac. Here you go, Comrade Banac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1126	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The standard VAT rate in Croatia is higher than that in the European Union, as we heard earlier only Sweden and Denmark have larger VATs. This is in addition to the need for tax cuts in general, the reason why the Liberal Party supports and will support a reduction in VAT rates. The VAT system is actually a free credit to the state, and it's kind of much more complicated than the old sales tax on goods and services. Which doesn't really matter. The shortfall is that it requires a larger fund-raiser in the first 15 days. The worst side of the VAT system is that every VAT company is paid back by its creditors, and in the event that the believer has a blocked account, that VAT return goes very slowly, and in the event that the believer goes into bankruptcy, you never get back what you paid to your suppliers. It was these two negative aspects that destroyed Croatia's economy after moving to the VAT system. In the already alarming conditions of general indifference, not paying bills, intermedia invoices increased by an additional 22%, and generated demand for loans that raised interest rates in the heavens, and halted economic growth. In addition, since state-owned companies were not paying anything and were in constant blockades, the domino effect blocked the mass of other companies that closed or went into bankruptcy, and this would all or at least in large have been avoided if there was the possibility of paying before taxes by the state instead of by creditors who were bankrupt. The advantage of VAT is that it significantly reduces the potential for the development of the black economy, because you've already paid in advance of taxes and if you give goods to someone without a black for cash account, you don't have the possibility of returning paid before taxes, it's a question of whether it's worth risking for such a small amount. The reduction in VAT rates will not reduce prices, but the increase in cumulative profits will certainly increase the liquidity rate that has been falling steadily in recent months, and the revenue side in the budget will remain the same if tax discipline increases. The change must also go in the direction of regulating the position of suppliers, firms that are in bankruptcy. Or if you want to plastically, to return to the cooperatives of Viktor Lenco the tax that Lenac owes them and thus at least partially mitigates the consequences of the bankruptcy that is under way. I would also like to add this, the current law, the current set of derogations from the sixth European Union guidelines, which we also need to take care of, and unfortunately there is no question in this proposal. For example, the sixth Guideline prescribes the release of banking services and VAT insurance services, regardless of who provides them. In contrast, our current law prescribes tax exemption for these services only if they are provided by certain institutions, primarily by banks, savings banks and savings organisations, as well as by insurance and re-insurance companies. This is a... attitude towards the entities that perform those services, and are not one of those in the sayings of tax exemptions. The law proposed here should therefore be taken into account in order to comply with the 6 guidelines. According to the 6th guideline, the right to free the activities of hosting special gambling, preschool education, secondary higher education, culture, etc. without any additional conditions, all of these social care institutions and religious community services shall have no additional conditions for the assistance they carry out. Subjects who perform our tasks in Croatia only exercise the right to freedom if they are established under the law on institutions. AND if they're funded from the budget. This means that institutions and communities established in those activities by natural and legal persons with the intention of obtaining profits do not have the right to tax exemption. The team is standardized one approach that's different from...routine. Therefore, in our system, perhaps even in this proposal, without additional conditions, all entities carrying out those activities should be free of VAT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1127	Thank you, dear fellow Banac. It is up to you, dear colleague Nenadić, to welcome your colleague Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1128	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I apologize to the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Allow me to rely on the social social political aspect of reducing the value added tax in these 10 minutes and respecting the appeal of Mr. Seks's Assembly President. The social aspect is quite mathematically clear here is this undeniably proven exposure of the Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader and Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. It is questionable and I will try to explain why the opposition led by the SDP is against such a reduction in VAT. It's clear to everyone today why it's like that. Why the current opposition is a recent executive authority against reducing VAT rates. First of all, they couldn't keep their own re-election promises on the day of 2000. Due to the lack of political will of knowledge and wisdom that Croatian citizens said in the elections for the Croatian Parliament on 23 November. Unsupporting the Government of Croatia's proposal to reduce VAT by justifying it under one worry about budgeting, I must say, it is quite hypocritical that we have seen here today if Prime Minister Ivo Sanader has subsided a written document on how the government's decision allocates the money for the 2004 budget. And now we're showing concern for his budget and his charge. Especially here irritates me on several occasions the position of illusory action in someone or something. The opposition that ultimately those 2% reduction in VAT will not end up in a pocket of citizens means apriorius mistrust in entrepreneurs producers, traders, in one word mistrust in all and all. The mistrust over the past four years has led to discouragement, infidelity, citizens' uninterest in Croatia's future. We in the Croatian Democratic Community, unlike you, believe in the opposition in Croatian citizens, entrepreneurs, merchants, and all those who want this troubled country. In 1990, we believed in the existence of the Croatian state, and in 1991 we believed in defending the territory of the Croatian state. We believed in 1995 in the release of occupied territory of the Croatian state. And we also continued to believe in the citizens of Croatia and in 2000 when we were sent by their will to oppose the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, faith in the consciousness and patriotism of the citizens of Croatia. to improve the Croatian state, in the joint and co-operation of all entities in the realisation of the project reduction of VAT is a guarantee that the effect of the reduction of VAT will end up in the pocket of consumers. And that should be made public to the Croatian public. What should also be underlined, and to say what has been going on all along is that you are against a reduction in VAT, and this clearly respected representative Linic said on behalf of the SDP representative we will not support a first-time reduction in VAT. There are reasons why. However, they gave it justifiable reasons, or those are only the reasons for the reason, we can talk about it. One of the reasons and the biggest reasons to go through here is the differentiated VAT rate. The differentiated VAT rate is one of the options for reducing VAT and one VAT rate. Therefore, who at this point is right will prove the future. I would if you allow and if time allows me, quote ten reasons in the cords of the single value added tax rate published by the Institute of Public Finance in 1999. It is an independent institute that publishes a professional and independent analysis of economic issues. One of those ten reasons is let me quote "emirian research." So, something that can happen in the future and how to regulate it. Empirical research on... The VAT mainly supports the the thesis of its non-use in reducing social reasons. [[You don't understand.]] For example, in Ireland, it has been found that the absolute amount of the rich spends on food twice as much as the poor, although the poor spend relatively more income on food than the rich. Thus, zero food taxation in Ireland brings twice as much relief to the rich as to the poor. A study in Sweden has shown that removing the general VAT rate on food would favor singles most in the category of high-income residents, as they usually buy more expensive food. Furthermore, the demand for books, newspapers and magazines is relatively elastic. This means that more books, newspapers and magazines buy rich, so by reducing VAT publishing rates, it can only become more regressive. In 1990, they also said that the European community is seeking a single rate, and the final results of the long-term process will certainly be only one step. Therefore, these studies of independent financial experts were published back in 1990. And finally, let the citizens of the Republic of Croatia trust the Economic Programme, which is being implemented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia headed by Dr. Eve Sanader. At least it is incorrect for voters to insist on the differentiated rate, i.e. on a programme that has not been supported by the majority of the Croatian electoral body. And I therefore propose that if you allow me and SDP representatives to be correct to their electoral body and post-election promises that they will be constructive opposition and vote in favour of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. One of the reasons the savings will be quite small. For 27 kunas, it's very small for someone, but we have to admit for someone very much. If you look at the minimum personal income in the Republic of Croatia and the four-member family live on it then it turns out that 27 kuna in one day for one family means a lot. Let us allow the VAT reduction to be implemented, let the citizens of Croatia assess whether it is small or much. And finally believing that we are on the right track to implement what voters said on November 23rd, the gentlemen of the opposition wanted you to admit it or not, we are turning to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1129	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mršić's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1130	I'd like to replicate a few allegations from my colleagues. First of all, it is repeatedly mentioned in the debate or said that HDZ has received citizens' trust. The HDZ received 134,000 votes less than the coalition, which was in power until 20 December. The way voices turn into mandates like this, that's something else. That's what it says about the Electoral Law, and it doesn't talk about citizens' trust. So the ratio of voting to mandate is what this assembly is like. But if that's what we're talking about, then we're either talking about parliamentary mandates or we're talking about winning votes in the election. Second. It is difficult to compare the effects of tax cuts in Sweden, which has the largest GDP per capita and the situation in Croatia in 2004. It's like you compare grandmothers and frogs and you want to produce the same effects. And finally, 27 kuna is a lot for every family that lives hard. But 54 kuna is 100% more than 27 kuna. 150 kuna is 400 or 500 percent more than 27 kuna. And the SDP's proposal is that these families are saving or getting the opportunity to buy for so much more money, what they need. Not a yacht, not a perfume, not a BW 7, but what they really need, and that's a SDP proposal. A constructive opposition does not mean that it accepts uncritically what the government proposes, but that a constructive opposition means that it is critical of what it is and that it may also have its own proposal. And we were just in our discussions saying that they would...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1131	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1132	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1133	Reply to the replica of counterpart Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1134	I have to admit that for the first time, I have a term in office in the Croatian Parliament, but among other things, I am a professor of mathematics and manager and I run a company and I know how many votes we received in the 2003 elections in HDZ and how much you received in the SDP. Therefore, the public told us all about it. As far as the constructive opposition is concerned, I hold that, knowing Prime Minister Sanader and Minister of Finance Mr. Shucker, that they will not reject the idea, quite the idea of a differentiated VAT rate, but let at this point be the government for which and this is the programme for which the Croatian people have declared themselves and let us then implement this programme in reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1135	Now we move on to correcting incorrect allegations. There's a few of them. First, counterpart Antesic has a correction to the incorrect allegations. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1136	Thank you very much. Reputed representative Nenadic reiterated an incorrect thesis that the opposition against VAT cuts was. It's just not true. The opposition is not against a reduction in VAT, but rather to consider several proposals in a calm and constructive atmosphere and to achieve the most optimal solution. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1137	Thank you very much. It is now time to correct the incorrect allegations of a respected colleague, Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Nenadic said only those who believe in the Croatian people, unlike the opposition. I think it is very offensive especially for us rightists, because we have proved by our work how much we believe and love and respect the Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1139	Injury of the Rules of Procedure of counterpart Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1140	The breach of the Rules of Procedure is so much that I didn't say it. I'm the one who told me. I told me, I didn't mention HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1141	Okay. This is the abuse of the board “infringement of the Rules of Procedure”. It's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague corrected an incorrect quote. It is now time to correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1142	A colleague, Nenadic, either consciously told the lie or had a lack of concentration when a colleague, Linic, spoke on behalf of the SDP club. His first sentence was that the SDP club supports reducing the VAT rate, but we will not support the proposal proposed by the government. So, because there are different ways of reducing the VAT rate. And the proposal of your appeal that the government has the right to propose, it's undeniable. The government has the right to propose, but you do not have the right to call on the SDP to vote against its programme. We got as many votes as we got for the program we offered. And in that program is the reduction of VAT in the way we're putting it here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1143	Correction of the incorrect quote by counterpart Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1144	Mr Nenadic said the opposition is incorrect towards voters and does not support the government's proposal of the Republic of Croatia. This is an incorrect allegation, because the opposition is correct to the voters, because the opposition came from a list of individual opposition parties in the Assembly and they received support for the programmes they offered, and in part of the VAT it is a different programme than currently proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1145	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It's my dear colleague Lesar's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1146	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, at first I would like to say immediately that I am aware of the risk that in the debate on VAT any word that might sound against the proposal for a reduction from 22 to 20 is a huge risk, because two months Croatian citizens have been persistently convinced that all prices will be 2% lower as soon as we adopt this law or from 1.1 next year as fewer citizens know or manage to read. And without a doubt, I am convinced that the parliamentary majority of this law will adopt in the second reading and that Croatia will have a 20% VAT rate from next year, no matter what they say to me and any amendments in the second reading and preparation. But I want to say, Mr. Secretary and colleagues and colleagues, six reasons, five, six is not so important, why I'm in doubt, why you didn't convince me either Prime Minister Sanader or you would have to vote for your proposal. The first reason was, for the past month, the Minister Mrs Kosor has made dramatic appeals to the Croatian public regarding the state of birth of the number of newborn children and called for the urgent change of legal regulations to come to the situation to stimulate young families in all ways to have as many children as possible. I have to admit, in this proposal of the VAT Act, and it will insist that we change the practice, that on the one hand, the state government asks Croatians and Croatian citizens to give birth to children, and on the other day we take 22 kunas on a package, on one shoe number 1966 kuna or on a baby shoe kit another 66 kuna VAT. Another reason why I'm in a big doubt is the fact that it just keeps repeating that prices in retail will be 2% lower and even as one key argument in the government's session, that mathematically it's far easier to count 20% than 22, so consumers will check it more easily in stores. Namely the product that enters the store with everything... The cost of 100 kuna is now VAT 22 and that goods cost 122 kuna. [[You don't understand.]] When VAT is 20%, this product will cost 120 kuna, and the difference from 2 kuna is not 2% but 1.6%. Therefore, provided that all traders on all items, on all goods and all craftsmen and craftsmen on all services of application and price reduction according to the VAT reduction, that effect may be maximum of 1.6% or on the average basket per month around 86 kuna. Third reason. The Minister of the Church confirmed the information I had never known before, I'm sorry, Minister Schuker. That somewhere around 72% of VAT is being collected at the border. In this situation, I believe that the issue of porn policy does not have the same effect on all regions in Croatia in the economic sense, especially not because of observation and consumption and production. In fact, cheap goods on the Croatian market are cheaper than Croatian production, it is textiles, it is the training industry, training products, meat, meat processing, pasta and what is known to us in Međimurje and that is why you all know us, for example, potatoes. To banalize things to the end. They used to import sweatpants into containers, today they don't order cans of panties, trainers and hats anymore, but a boat of coaches from the east that comes, from countries where average wages are $9 a month. The structure of the Međimurje economy is such that it is dominantly made by textiles, the training industry of which is one company in the majority, in a large majority part of state ownership that threatens bankruptcy. Food production in particular meat, processing, cereals, bread production, pasta and agriculture. The very fact that import goods will be even cheaper, and given this structure of the economy, the Međimurje economy will be even less competitive on the offer, in the offer with its products and on the Međimurje but on the Croatian market. Second, or fourth reason. The purchasing power of the population can be measured in different ways, but one criterion is certainly pay. The average salary in October last year in Croatia was 3 thousand 775 kuna. In Međimurje, 2,000 840 or 25% lower. And it wasn't just in October last year and it wasn't just last year, not before last year, but 13 years ago. We're behind with an average salary of 18 to 25%. When you take that into account and see it, the effect of reducing VAT on this purchasing power will indeed be... , especially because the products of wide-ranging consumption won't be so cheap. [[You don't understand.]] The fifth reason. A large number of banks, businesses and combinations have been renovated in Croatia so far. In Međimurje, no company on the burden of the state has been rescheduled. In fact, we in Međimurje had neither the Dubrovnik Bank nor the Rijeka Bank nor Croatia Bank nor the Glamina Branka. We don't have shipyards, we don't have picks. And everything that is a problem in the economy and losing jobs and trying to save jobs has been done with extremely low wages. That is why I am warning this very fact that in considering tax reform, and already about VAT we need to know the interdependent relations of production, i.e. consumption and production and impact on them when we change any tax because it is not the same in each part of the Republic of Croatia because it depends on the structure of the economy. Finally, Mr Minister, Article 2 of the amendment provides for the possibility of releasing VAT for a number of civil society organisations, humanitarian and sports organisations. That's what we talked about. Please, when in the final text of the amendments and additions you certainly accept that this category of useful associations of this state enters the foundations. Especially because there are many of them in Croatia who are engaged in or scholarship students or as we have in Međimurje, which helps citizens exclusively in the healthcare domain. And in some ways, we cover the failures of the health system in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1147	Thank you, buddy. It's my dear colleague Mimica's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1148	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Many things have already been said here today about the good and bad sides of the linear and differentiated VAT reduction and the effects of a possible increase in the non-taxable part of the tax base in income taxation as a possible substitute for VAT reduction. That's why I won't talk too much about the content of this bill today. In this whole story, it's actually comforting that the tax burden will certainly happen. Apparently, it will come to this, and I welcome it. He won't be here right away, though, but at some point, it'll happen. Of course, it does not matter how this tax discharge is done, and that is why I believe that it is very important to think seriously, all together. How best we can find the best measure between optimal economic and social impacts of VAT reduction and the total space provided for by the budgetary framework. And it seems to me that we have all agreed today that the budgetary framework will allow a reduction of tax burden on value added tax. So I think that until the second reading, it would be very useful, if not necessarily, for the proponent to consider and other possible ways of reducing VAT and to rely on a professional debate on this issue without unnecessary politicisation, because I think an open approach to all possible solutions can only help. However, I reported primarily not because of what I just said, not because of the content and possible ways of resolving the tax burden reduction issue but because of my inadmissible practice, I would say almost... written law. [[You can't hear the speaker away from the microphone.]] This is what we heard more today than the prime minister, even more than the finance minister in terms of the arguments that led the proposer to propose such a bill, a bill. However, the words fly, and the paper remains, and this proposal on paper will leave almost nothing in the explanation, because in a single sentence, I would say at school knowledge level, the economy only lists three possible economic effects.../ The speaker has been excluded./...This is a reduction in the level of prices, a greater competitiveness of the economy and a smaller grey economy, of course, that the explanation has gone further and the development of these possible effects would be seen to be really possible only in ideal conditions probably in our conditions not to a full extent or almost not at all to the extent necessary. In this explanation there are no figures, there are almost no figures, the only figures I have managed to remember are the numbers of the People's Newspaper, the regular numbers of the articles of the law, dates and figures 20 and 22. And we all know this is about large numbers, billions of kunas, and it doesn't even say how many billions of kunas are involved in this VAT reduction. That is why my primary intervention is going towards being useful, well, important at the beginning of this Parliament's mandate to point out this and get up to protect the reputation of MPs, to stand up against the insufferable ease of dissuasion of MPs who are not sufficiently informed in such arguments. I think the reputation of the Parliament, the reputation of this high home, defends, protects, improves itself with enough information that every representative must have when deciding especially when deciding on such high values and important things. In addition, it seems to me that in a procedural sense, the Rules of Procedure have been injured because Article 139 speaks of the fact that if the Law creates material obligations that the Committee on Finance and the State Budget must at all, before deciding on such a bill, it must determine whether these obligations are possible to provide financial resources for such obligations which have not been said in the report of the Finance Committee. Therefore, here I may now naively believe that it is possible, with such appeals in the future, perhaps not so much because of this law, and perhaps not so much because of this proposer who has sent the law practically without reason to the Assembly, but that it is possible, with such appeals, to come into a situation that, subsequently, every proposer in each law respects the seriousness and responsibility that the Proposer must have when sending proposals of law to one serious and responsible person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1149	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues are still on this agenda item that they would have absorbed today, and there are 10 representatives registered and two clubs per 5 minutes. Thank you very much for continuing this debate. Honorable representative of Ante Markov, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1150	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the honourable representatives of the Ministry of Finance. If I were to say that the VAT as a neutral category in this Parliament caused a proactive and debate that was not often and was not related to the point, I would probably be partly right, but I might resent those who held that in the context of the VAT, the matter discussed could be discussed. If I were to say that if there was a dilemma between those who represented the principle of linearity, that is, the principle of the proposing, which is one of the rates of VAT and its reduction and those representing the principle of selectivity, or the introduction of higher rates, and if it were the only dilemma provided, and it implies that one and the other principles agree with the reduction of VAT means tax discharge in a certain form, then this debate would, if the necessary doses of science, economic science and profession were inserted into it, could in some way be agreed and could lead to certain solutions which, through further analysis, would indicate that everything that is generated and everything that is conditional upon it, and in the discussions it was said to the consequences of VAT relations on 22, was linear or selective. It does not affect such conditions and unfortunately it cannot generate everything that we are all aware of in our society as a burden, for everything that in the Croatian society is characterized as a brake of economic development, as a result of the deficit, as a result of excessive imports, as a result of the decline in industrial production or as a result of a lagging economic development. Each country, Croatia in particular, especially the Croatian economy, is seeking, and not from today a complete and thorough reform of the fiscal system. The tax system, above all, and I think that's where everyone agrees, both economic science and institutions and fellow parliamentary representatives, has certain principles and these principles are simplicity as the first principle. The second principle of security and third and perhaps the most important principle of tax policy, which is feasibility. The first principle of simplicity on which tax-based and economic science deals with tax systems is based on a fact that the tax system must be simple not only because of those who pay taxes, but also because of those who are in charge of collecting taxes, which are state administration systems. Simplicity will give right to those who prefer only one rate because it is simpler. It is clear that this economic rule applies everywhere in the world as all economic rules in their concept apply everywhere in the world in market conditions. Unfortunately, other countries have also clearly taken into account the efficiency, simplicity of collecting and calculating taxes have introduced more rates and, as we know, it is said most countries have done so by introducing at a major rate and another one or two. It does not mean Croatia either, Croatian opportunities must also give Croatian answers. Croatian practice should also confirm certain economic principles which will be established and which will find its place. The second principle of security is something to which, namely, the whole system is based, and feasibility can also be translated as the principle of justice, which is that everyone pays taxes. But as in every country and in Croatia, there is a discrepancy between economic acquaintances and their institutions in interpreting what is better? One foot or more feet. So also our relevant institutions from the Zagreb Institute, the Faculty of Law and other institutions dispute over what is more acceptable and what is more quality for Croatia at this time? What they agree on is that no matter what principle is taken and what method we determine, it will not lead to citizens feeling it in their pocket. Because I'm a VAT like no one has challenged his neutral character, you can't expect him to do what he doesn't give. Thus, this dilemma is in itself unnecessary. She was put here as a technical dilemma. She's not real. I, as well as the HSS Club, are absolutely in favour of redistributing the economy, creating preconditions and stopping the trend that has imposed our situation, but also opening Croatia, Croatia to the world, and this is essential that it generates greater imports than the one we want. We failed to create the asymmetricity of imports and exports. We have failed to provide instruments for the protection of domestic production which is in fact preferential in terms of debate and decision-making, and also in terms of those instruments that are relevant and which can affect the overall macroeconomic situation in Croatia, which should get the effects that I said cannot be achieved by VAT itself and its change. I therefore believe that we do not need to be exhausted from this dilemma for and against because I believe that we are all genuinely interested in reducing the burdens paid by our citizens and I believe that in that part too, given that this first reading can make progress that is similar to all of us regardless of party membership, and thus we express our shared responsibility for the creation of those preconditions and the completion of those programmes that are more similar in this respect than they are different. But what I would like to say is a fact that has to be repeated over and over again. It must be repeated precisely by referring to the Minister of Finance's words that this is only one step in reforming the fiscal system and improving the tax system in the Republic of Croatia, which can provide, and should ensure those measures and encourage domestic production and halting uncontrolled imports and creating support for those activities primarily linked to Croatia, which is tourism such as the market and food production as we really do and our commitment. That is why these two activities, or those two, are also mentioned and are trying to compete with them primarily in order to create those preconditions in order to boost production in Croatia and thus respond to the growing competition that comes from abroad. But we need to know that foreign goods would never be so competitive in Croatia that there is no export stimulation behind it that countries, which support their own production, place in Croatia, and Croatia must stick to such policies based on its openness and commitment to join the European Union. However, this does not prevent Croatia from creating and not empowering special measures and giving additional incentives and special measures to protect its own economy and thus respond to those challenges called competitiveness not only on the world market but also on the domestic market. That's what this debate is all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1151	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1152	Dear President Shakespeare, Minister Shucker. Since, personally, in my election campaign in my constituency, I have advocated a reduction in the sales tax rate from 22% to 20%, I will vote in favour of this proposal because I am bound by a public word, regardless of the club's position. I would like to say here at the beginning of a little dicresion of only a minute, and it concerns constant skepticism in relation to the confidence of the citizens of the Parliament, which is discussed and respected, and I welcome the appeal of President of the Shex Parliament in this regard. Fortunately and quite for my unknown reasons, the trust of Croatian citizens in the Parliament is, the highest level of trust among citizens in the Parliament compared to other state institutions, so people still believe in the Croatian Parliament for unknown reasons, but in the government, in the judiciary, in the Office of the President of the Republic, above us are just a church and I think until recently there was an army, no more. And the other thing, also comforting, trust in the Croatian Parliament according to comparative research in all transition countries is also the biggest, so people in the Croatian Parliament believe more than the citizens of other countries in the local Parliament. Now something about the essence of things. When it comes to VAT itself, I would like to appeal to permanent terminology or notional discipline and the Prime Minister and many of the debates on VAT reduction by 2%, this is not about VAT reduction by 2%, it's about practically reducing VAT by 9.02%, but it's about reducing VAT rates by 2% points or we can say percentages. That's very important. The second thing, there's a lot of talk about the absence of graphs, analysis etc. It's very important to know that this account is quite simple. Last year, 28 billion were collected, and 200, I don't know how many million kunas in Croatia, so those operating with 3 billion 700, 3,500, 3 billion and how many budget revenue cuts are wrong. It is precisely 2 billion 530 million reduced budget revenues based on VAT. Another thing I would like to draw attention to is the theoretical support of public finances in general, because of me also unclear reasons HDZ may have one comparative advantage because leading public finances experts in Croatia are traditionally connected or I have consulted some, unfortunately not used, I would suggest Mr. Ministers to use first of all Peru Jurkovic, Zoran Jasic, there can be used Ivan Lovrinović. The tradition of the SDP was that it had the support of the Croatian economics department, it was formerly the economy of Yugoslavia and that happy competition should continue to be used. My third note concerns Secretary Shuker's public statement. Minister Shuker's public statements must now be taken with the weight that the situation implies. You're quite right when, I think it was January 24th in Vjesnik, you drew attention to two things. First on foreign debt, I think you mentioned 22 billion and 800 million. According to the International Bank for Compensation from Basel, it is approximately at that level. and you mentioned that the debt of the general government or the jargon public debt is not 4.5 but will be as much as I remember 6,86. After that, I was already consulted, because I was otherwise consulted in the work on the credit rating of Croatia with small panics by the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the Bank that I mentioned, and there is a right Minister Churchvenac when he says that we cannot contribute alone to the credit rating and the cost of borrowing is higher than it is. When it comes to the state of the country or state of the nation, I think we as the Croatian Parliament should dramatically warn that the state of the Croatian nation and Croatian economy may be the most difficult in Croatia's history, even if you want the history of Croats. When it comes to it, I'll just mention two comparative information that you know what it's about. The government of Ivica Racan in a term of four years pays off on the basis of the reach of the principal and interest equal to 3 billion 0.33 million dollars. For many reasons, this government of Ivo Sanader needs to be paid 12 billion 0.95 million in four years without any additional debt. That's where you'll find yourself in a very serious situation. So the state will be able to solve this problem very unfavourable. There are some ideas here, for example, I would suggest two ideas. The first idea of taxing bank interest with the advantage of small savings, and the second is taxing dividends again with huge or exceptions for small shareholders. There are several reasons why Croatian possibilities for charging the state budget are terribly exhausted. And in this sense, it is our joint responsibility to understand what situation Croatia is in today. As far as I'm concerned, you need to know if sometimes it seems like I'm going to be speaking critically like, eating 100 days. In these 100 days, I will work hard to help and support the government, and after Easter, I will be a serious critic of everything that this government has done badly in the first 100 days and after those first 100 days. There's so much and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1153	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Luka Rojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister. Undoubtedly, the first topic we discuss in the Croatian Parliament is a strong topic on which elections are won or lost in the world. These are the topics most important to everyone, everyone thinks about them, one percentage point more or less can be crucial for a positive business for a positive home duet. And one percentage point more or less can also be the other. So I don't see in this room who might be able to break up against any decommissioning when it comes to tax burdens. And who could raise their hands for something more and have the chance to really cut it down. I would therefore not talk about the aspect some have talked about in this assembly, which will mean if there is a reduction of two percentage points to the total revenue of the state budget. And will the planned amount of revenue in the state budget be lower for that particular amount. Because the theory is known that if you reduce the tax rate does not mean that the tax amount in the same amount will be reduced even the same effect that the tax amount remains almost the same. There is elasticity in the economy to a particular problem. A variety of curves that talk about it, and we'd all be happy if that were the case. But I will speak more of what the prime minister said when he explained how effective this could be and how much could be in favour of Croatian citizens. To what extent this could be a rise in the standard of Croatian man. He would dispute that thesis because it seems to me that a reduction in value added tax given the knowledge of VAT is an indirect tax. And he's a very unfair tax, so he hits everyone equally. But it's not the same for everyone. It must be far more burdensome for those with lower incomes, and with lower property, relatively and far less those with higher incomes. And I would therefore like to challenge this thesis because it seems to me that all other taxes are much better to articulate this interest of Croatian citizens' standards than reducing VAT. In fact, several examples of how this will mean for those who have a minimum pension were given here. How much will it be for those who have average income in Croatia. And how much will it be for those who have a salary that is average and which is what it is. And that is why it should not, on this basis, have so much faith in waiting that these effects will be so strong, because I assure you that with those products that enter the mandatory basket and are already about freed VAT will not be significantly cheaper or increase the standard of citizens, and will not be more significant in the pocket of the Croatian man the money that is intended from that source. I'm afraid most of it will still stay where it may not have been intended, large wholesalers and foreign investors. Because you'll admit, here's only one example. Tell me how much the press, the daily press, will cost after the VAT cut. Six kunas cost today. With a reduction in VAT he will still cost 6 kuna because there is no one to cut the price to 5.90 and something lip. So it will be with all those products that are low prices up to 10, 20, 30, 40 and 50 kuna. And we can conclude that this amount will not remain in the pocket of citizens, but will remain with the one who sells the products, and thus we can very easily calculate if it happens only with a third of these products that could even be cheaped with a reduction in VAT. One billion kuna will be found where we probably didn't want it. Perhaps it is the interest of the Croatian economy, perhaps jet interestes and Croatian entrepreneurs. But it certainly can't be an interest in the widest layers of citizens. I think it would be far better if a public debate were opened, that with all the exact indicators that would happen with a 2% VAT reduction and that this would lead to a debate on this law. I expect this debate too, although it often crosses the frameworks of expertise, of course we are a political body and it is also normal to speak politically. But I would like the expert public to be far more involved in the adoption of this law and it to be crucial, the profession to be crucial in the adoption of the final law. I wish VAT could be reduced to 17% like all of you, but at this point it's impossible. With the VAT cut by 2%, I assure you that the effects expected will not be achieved. It is known that all other taxes can be more directly mitigated by the social effects that we possibly wanted to mitigate under this law. Because I can't be convinced that someone who can spend 100,000 euros on a capital product can't spend another 2,000 euros on additional VATs that are being reduced this way. But certainly for a citizen who has a minimum income, every reduction and every cost is very good, and this can be done far better with special taxes, with all other types of taxes from labour price cuts, reduction of income taxes, and all other taxes that are targeted at taxes, without talking about excise duties that directly can be taken from those who earn more, and than those who earn less. And so, I actually support the idea of HSS that it is very serious to reconsider this proposal once again, to see if this is a time to reduce linearly one rate or introduce a higher rate. Because as many professional people in the world economic policy advocate a single tax rate, in the 1990s, as far as I can see, there are still two steps in all countries of Europe -- one and another rate that is significantly smaller than the one that is the first rate and which mainly applies to those products that are in the most common use of the widest layers of citizens. So it would be good to re-analyze and see if a reduction of 2% is the goal that, the means that will achieve the right goal, or if it is possible to do another process. We advocate that, in this very sense, this debate is taking place further. We expect that some of those who looked at the VAT problem from the other angle will probably be respected in the second reading and that we will come up with one law that will best balance our economic opportunities, lead an economic policy that will be socially sensitive enough, but also developmental. Because you're going to admit that we're in another country where the average incomes are two or three thousand dollars, then we could totally talk about this whole thing differently. We are in a country where we have low incomes, in which the minimum incomes are terribly low, in which the very narrow circle of people has great capital in their hands. And in the end, I could conclude that this bill doesn't seem to be going in the direction of reducing these differences, but strengthening these differences. I would say that this could be another gift from the Croatian government to Croatian tycoons and foreign investors and those who are in a much more comfortable position than those who care about tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1155	Thank you very much. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1156	.... /The speech room is subsequently included....I would also very much like to make my modest contribution to this problem and, of course, everyone building a mosaic is moving with some pebble, so we too are moving to fulfill our pre-election promises, and in reforming the overall tax system a new, more modern, more compatible Europe system starts from and a small percentage reduction - it can be discussed - and from a certain area. So today, we were all trapped in the situation we are currently in and unfortunately in force in Croatia is the first Engel law that constantly says that small incomes make up the largest part of the budget, so some and 100% spend on food and in that part on an individual article that costs extremely little when a small reduction is applied it is said to be and will not be or will not be seen. So at this point I would see one other aspect and another pre-election promise that we have made and the effects of indirect this tax reduction, which is exactly the economy and those in the VAT system because saying that this is a neutral tax we are right, but he is, he is ultimately neutral. But at a certain time, it is very neutral for certain entrepreneurs, and if we go to the accounting technique, we know that the obligation and payment of VAT does not result in invoices, but it is a tax period, and the tax obligation to pay that tax occurs within the last 30 days after the creation of the tax liability. So it can in practice be from 60 to 30 days the maximum time limit when you have to pay the tax. It's some kind of general approach. However, there are areas such as -- I come from the cattle end specifically to the cattle where the cycle takes several months not to say sometimes and several years -- where speaking of large amounts and large amounts of money that are engaged or trapped in these 22% when talking about 2% of the money that when we reduce it to 20% will be a total of an additional effect, new crafts that will be faster cut and which will be able to go into new economic activities, even of course in consumption. Today, we all talked about the percentage of the tax and the amounts when the tax contained in the price of the goods is derived from the bill, and we did not talk about the calculations of the manufacturer passing the reverse route. Therefore, at the producer price, it places its profit, i.e. some margin on the manufacturer, and it is 22% invoiced on the full amount. So that first customer of his who will take it away later, but I speak within which time, sometimes even after a few months, when we talk about the amounts, at 100 thousand kunas will pay 22 thousand kunas, but on a million kunas will pay, or 2200, but on a million kunas, they will pay 22, so the accumulated amounts increase and these funds. I'm saying again it's good that we're going to cut that tax and people and entrepreneurs are giving us full support. If the tax after a certain time and filling of our fissus can be reduced by another percentage, I assume that we will see the following situation very quickly, that is, when it applies. I'm deeply hoping that there will be much more to this amount that Dr. Slaven Letica presented, which is 2.5 billion, to collect into the budget when other services which are of course related to the Ministry of Finance, but also inspection services, at least three areas of the one I know, introduce order and manage to collect that tax, and the area of transport and sales and the consumption of cattle and meat and meat fresh. The area of fruit and vegetables and textiles is something where not only does this go to containers cheap goods so tax is paid at the border but something that enters the bags and sells here on Jelačić. I got off the tram today, and the first thing that was offered to me was, don't realize that I'm fantasizing this High House, but the citizens in the middle of our metropolis first of all get on the offer of pajamas underwear, so there's no VAT at the entrance, there's no VAT in the production, but the VAT in that person's pocket is probably working for someone, it's organized businesses, because the guy who sells isn't the one who bought that stuff, he sells it for someone. So, in any case, in these three areas, this government will respect the laws of this Croatian state and by carrying out the voter's will raise enough funds to not go through the tax for which I repeat as a value added tax in relation to the sales tax that we had, and we've hardly introduced it, they were all against it, because when you have years of one system and habits, you're hard to move on to another, and I wouldn't even want to think about going back to those huge lists of goods that belong to certain categories of tax rates, so there's again the ability of malversion that I'm not talking about because you can never predict all the goods that exist in life, and then leaving it to the entrepreneur and his imagination to apply the rate that he wants if you have the rate that I speak as we used to have rates 5, 10, 15 or not known them. So this value added tax reduction will have multiple and different effects in different areas. People expect it from us and of course in all other areas is a total reduction of tax burdens welcome and we will propose it, but we are starting today with this. And no matter what I come from practice, and basically I end up dealing with this, I don't think this is going to cause any cost because certain software that exists in all entrepreneurs stays the same, so only another number is typed into that house where the percentage of taxes goes. We already have three of us today, in principle, to say the areas. We have one product that's even tax-free or service-free, we have a zero rate and we have a rate today of 22, tomorrow 20%. So I appeal to colleagues to think about, that introducing more differentiated rates of contributions and changing these programmes means that it offers additional costs in entrepreneurial actions and costs, that it brings interference and confusion in goods, and that we simply have once again a system that is not simple, is not easy to apply and is neither as effective as this. I'd just like to say one more thing, but today I heard that some of them saw it when they promised it wasn't good. So we have seen that it is not good not to make promises, and that is why taught by other people's mistakes, not waiting for someone to learn about ours, we think we are doing what is good for taxpayers and for all Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1157	Thank you very much. Otherwise we got 30-27 against Switzerland in handball. 30:27 beat Switzerland. Honourable representative Zvonimir Puljic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1158	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. And tonight we have heard in the debates and from what is said we can conclude that the growth of standards and growth in economic activity is the goal of each of the parties in this Parliament, and in fact these are the goals of Croatia as a whole, the objectives for which consensus can be achieved. However, the differences are in the way of implementation, in people who do this and opportunities to implement their programmes. A recent ruling coalition had the full mandate to try to achieve these goals. As far as she was able to do that, I dare judge myself through the result of the election. The reduction of VAT to 20% of today's 22 measures is what new government has promised during the pre-election campaign and is implementing it as a first step in a series of measures, in the realisation of its programme to achieve those objectives. It relieves the end consumers, tax destination for approximately 3 billion kuna, and increases their purchasing power by 3 billion kuna. Entrepreneurs, producers and traders will also experience relief because they will need a lower amount of liquid assets to be paid as a difference of tax for the past accounting period in favour of the budget. Therefore, both sides and end consumers, but also entrepreneurs, experience relief from this measure, as well as its application. The truth is that there is a risk that part of the tax discharge is kept by traders for themselves. In companies of the free market, this cannot be prevented by legal repression, but it can be done through the power of public change, by the activities of consumer organisations, by means of the media, and it is an instrument that must actually be developed in society not only for this opportunity but it marks, its growth and the work of our society as a whole in democratisation. So, I admit there's a risk involved, but before that risk, I suggest to the government that he doesn't give in. The reforming of the tax system and the launch of the economy are also a risk, a risk we cannot resist because this government has just gained confidence in the elections in its determination to enter that risk and this determination should not only be practiced but passed on to the entire Croatian society. When we talk about the execution of election promises and courage, I'll tell you about the 2000 event. I was present when the then coalition government celebrated, marking 100 days of its reign with a multimedia presentation, and I was in a hall in Banski Dvori, full of journalists. The only parliamentary representative, but with the permission of the head of protocol. In addition to the multimedia presentation, I heard the then prime minister who announced in his speech a strong message that the government would take a decisive move next week and reduce VAT from 22% to 19%. He heard on his ears in the hall with dozens of journalists. What was that? Nothing. The government was discouraged, she gave up. I advise this government not to give in, not to be discouraged, but to continue on the path it has taken, based on the determination it has gained trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1159	Correction of an incorrect quote, esteemed colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1160	Yeah, after 100 days. It's not true it wasn't anything. The government has promised to cut VAT, namely, the prime minister then announced the possibility of reducing VAT to 19%, but it was incorrect that nothing followed. But reduced contributions, reduced taxes, increased non-taxable income.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1161	Comrade Stazic, it was obvious that his colleague said that since the VAT cut, there was no VAT. Not from the other one. I'm not helping, but I mean, you see that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear colleague Bozidar Pankretic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1162	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry. So let me try to elaborate a few sentences, even though I would avoid all the part that has already been highlighted by my clubmates. Maybe at the beginning I'll say that still these 100 days of the new government, I'll join those who said it should be constructive in that maximum part and try to focus my discussion in that direction and help as much as possible. I believe that right now we all certainly want this law, and I believe in the laws of the future to bring about a certain discharge of the economy, in total, I would say, in Croatia of our people who, frankly, we all have to admit, are not in an envious economic position. However, I would like to concentrate here as much as possible on the part of the tax policy relating to this part of the food. With the fact that I have to say that some of these speeches that have been heard here, that have been going towards certain requests towards certain commercial houses, certain pressures. We can welcome them, but we must all be aware together how effective their efficiency can be in a market economy. I'm not talking about reducing VAT from 22% to 20%, but I'm going to say, and I don't think anyone mentioned that here today, about reducing VAT, but not reducing budget revenue. I must also point out that there are written documents on this, and I believe that when a fellow Minister Shucker looks for certain documents in the Ministry of State, he will find certain letters from 2001 when the Ministry of Agriculture, whose head I was on, proposed a reduction in VAT. What's this about? I have to stress certain things at the beginning to elaborate something that is still extremely important for the agriculture sector. Unfortunately, what has the most impact on the gray economy and on the suppression in that part of it is certainly possible by a certain tax system, but we need to know that there are only about 3 to 5% of the family farms in the VAT system. While the single rate of 22% is certainly something that significantly accumulates the production costs of the entire agricultural food chain, this is the information we must be aware of that part of the grey economy is something that is extremely widespread. I've spoken in a number of ways about how much in certain parts of agriculture we have these grey economies. We need to be aware that by reducing VAT in any case that part of the grey economy can be contained most effectively, if we are to suppress it then definitely and increase its revenue in the state budget itself. That is why I believe that by reducing VAT to food that definitely except for one country in the EU has all the countries and, of course, the argument that Mr. Minister has made here, which states that some of the trends in the European Union are to go in the direction of one tax rate, but in that part, we must recognise for ourselves Croatia will have to wait a little longer. We do not need to go, and follow that part but go in order, it is necessary for us to go in that part to reduce VAT to food because in that part we will certainly enable that part of Croatian citizens who need it most to have certain products, primarily food products cheaper and more affordable. I think in that part where there was talk and there was something I wanted to talk about also one, two sentences, and that's import. We need to know that this last year in 2003 will end up importing more than a billion, 100, 200, 300 million dollars, and unfortunately, serious analysts say that in 2004 it will be close to 2 billion. Without very urgent cuts, we'll have a hard time doing something. There was also a proposal, which is why I say that in this presentation, I want to be constructive, and we have them now to make and help domestic agricultural production as competitive as possible. This can only be done with one measure, and this is a safeguard measure of customs which is permitted, and is in accordance with Article 12. GAT agreements, I must tell you that some countries that will soon become members of the European Union have had such customs duties and have spent almost 8 months, and in this most direct way have managed to make their deficit in the balance of payments smaller in any case. I think these are the measures that we need to influence to try to do everything in this situation, that the overall economy, especially here when I'm talking about agriculture, let's make it as competitive as possible and help as possible. Here I think with these thoughts, I believe that after this first reading, we will all appreciate that this is an extremely important question that we will not realize, however, on the only argument that this is a firm pre-election promise, which I respect, but that still, by respecting everything else, we would still have to consult the whole profession, to respect all of what I believe today is said here and try to propose a law that would be best for this House to bring consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1163	Thank you, dear fellow Pankretic. It's my dear colleague, Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1164	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, honourable ministers. Since my colleague Pankretic touched the subject in front of me and almost everything he said, I'll do it again maybe. Mr. Minister, I wonder if agricultural production will be even more exposed to competition, we stimulate imports and production that are even deeper in our lowest branches. Agriculture should also be stimulated by incentives to achieve the competitiveness of the European Community. The money we lose in the budget could be used for thousands of acres of orchards to be raised before we enter the European Union, thus losing the right to certain quotas in the production of fruit and vegetables. And we know that the vast majority of farmers are not in the VAT system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1165	Thank you very much, dear fellow Kurt. It's time for the esteemed colleague of Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1166	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is highly doubtful whether a reduction in VAT will result in a reduction in the cost of life or whether a consumer basket will be facilitated from some average of 5295 kuna. It is indisputable, however, that there will certainly be a reduction in revenue in the budget, and this team is up in the budget, which is completely unknown to us at the moment of this decision being made, as it relates to 2005. Who will benefit directly from the reduction of this socially unfair tax anyway? For example, what benefit will VAT reduction benefits have when VAT is neutral for them anyway? If you really want to meet entrepreneurs, and by the logic that VAT is neutral, then you could suggest that Mr. Ministers increase the VAT payment deadline, i.e. that VAT payments are made at the time of billing, and not at the time of the invoice, which is created, reduces the shock liquidity and leaves more resources to be made available in further investments. Most importantly, it creates greater profits and opportunities for further investment, employment and other benefits. In addition, it is known that cca 60% of VAT is collected during customs duties on imports. I refer in particular to what Mr. Minister mentioned this morning in the context of a weak economy with the collection of as much as 72% of VAT on imports of goods. The reduction in VAT rates would lead to the cost of importing goods anyway, which would further result in an increase in imports, thereby causing negative effects on the supply liquidity by imports, thereby implying and pressing foreign borrowing to finance imports, while at the same time challenging the situation of problematic domestic production. As the HNS stressed in the pre-election campaign by amending and, or by adopting some other laws that regulate taxes particularly on income, which we all know are excessive and are precisely the reason for expensive labour and thus the lack of interest of foreign investors to start any more serious production in Croatia, by increasing the basic personal deduction would allow a total increase in the population sector, which, for example, enables increased consumption or, for example, net savings, which can be reinvested through funds in the economy or production. That is why I personally do not advocate a linear reduction in VAT by 2 points because it is a procedure that only formally meets the promises of the electoral body, even with the delay of full strangers, and that it will not have a positive impact on the standard of living of our citizens but as much as possible on the profits of traders. It is hard to believe that the price reduction in the retail trade network will be caused by the cry of the government or by us here in the Parliament. I stand on the contrary for what we have written as a party in our pre-election economic tax reduction programme, which is directly, directly affecting the salaries of citizens, the possibility of employment, the movement of the economy, and what is certainly most important raises the standard of socially endangered categories of citizens. So what we support from the Croatian People's Party is the change in the system that will directly reflect the increase in net wages, while the gross labour price or the cost of working for the employer remains unchanged. The increase of the non-taxable part and finally which is also very important redistribution from tax in... funds at the level of local and regional self-government. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1167	Thank you very much. It's next, dear colleague Branko Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1168	Honored Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I won't be bothering you very long because we've been listening long and there are various suggestions and we've said everything, but I'm going to rely on an alternative solution proposed by our party that Mr. Cacic explained in detail this morning. I'll just repeat two things out of it. If the VAT is reduced by 2% then the basket or the salary of our citizen increases by 86 kuna and the budget loses 3 million, 3 billion kuna. If we go to this solution offered by HNS to increase the non-taxable share from 1500 to 2000 kuna then the average salary increases 4% or 156 kuna, and the savings is, and the budget is reduced by a billion and 750 thousand kuna. So savings is a billion and 250 thousand kuna. I don't think there's any need for any explanation here, but let's go down to local self-government, which is our alternative solution, a little bit went down to local self-government where we've heard a lot since this morning. You're all mostly in councils or chiefs, mayors. That's how I'm in a small community. With this alternative solution of ours, let's say, my local unit is taxing in its area of 7 million kuna per year under the current law, it gets 2 million and 240 thousand kuna or 32%. If we go to this debate, then according to this proposal, the local unit will no longer receive 32%, 38%. So she's going to raise $2 million and get 2 million and 660,000 a year, and that's the difference between 420 thousand kuna. For a small municipality, that's a large amount, and I have to say that it goes in combination with a proposal of two laws. So the Law on increasing the non-taxable part from 1500 to 2000 kuna and the Law on co-financing of local and regional self-government. These laws and that combination would satisfy my citizens and increase incomes in the local unit. A third proposal and a proposal for VAT promoters can be combined here at different rates, which would also create even better effects and savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1169	Thank you, dear fellow Vojnovic. It's on behalf of Club Libra colleague Herman for the last five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1170	... We would like to say that the vote to reduce VAT is taking responsibility for the 2005 budget, which in order to reduce VAT, will have less revenue for approximately 3 billion kuna, whereas it is not yet known the draft budget for 2004 or the implementation of the budget for that year, from which it would be seen how realistic the possibilities for reducing VAT are indeed real. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]] Next, the grey economy is a problem in the world, and we can't call ourselves that problem, as our exclusive problem on average 20% of gross social product. and Croatia will indeed have a real difficulty in increasing budget revenues by curbing the grey economy, even with the introduction of the financial police. As the deficit in the budget comes from reducing VAT by making up for the increase in investment, it is one of the essential issues for us, and indeed in favour of the growth of citizens' standards, i.e. how to make large domestic, "companions" to really invest in Croatia. The benefits of VAT cuts will be achieved by traders through the increase of profits and those with the highest incomes, this cannot be a motive for reducing VAT. Taxes are not reduced by the way if you allow a little joke, because it would be round tax or more easily recalculated or even improved the image of the same tax. But good. The key issue is how to reduce budget expenditure with stable budget revenues. One-stage VAT is a socially unfair tax. We have not heard entirely reliable data today, so on behalf of the Libra Club, I would like to point out once again all the members of the European Union with the exception of Denmark, only Denmark at a general VAT rate has another, two, three VAT rates. The simplest question should be to reduce the overall VAT rate or introduce reduced VAT rates, it is to assess the values of each country's social system, including our country's. So the effects on the standard of people will eventually be very small, and a genuine increase in the purchasing power of the population will only come from increased employment. It should therefore be expected that, in fact, we would like to send as a final message incentives and investments related to a sustained increase in exports. More notice that we expect a full reform of the tax system and then of course questions and what about the profit tax, what about income tax? When I come from Osijek, I can't say that the profit tax that goes in the place of company registration after 150 years has run out of bank headquarters. Here's Mr. Minister, a strong motive for trying to think about what profit tax means and its fairer redistribution because of this situation. So the city of Osijek has no simple reason to believe that there is no bank headquarters, there is no tax in Osijek on the profits of these banks. Here, if it's supposed to be an effect, which I certainly want to, you should say expertise ahead and politics stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1171	Thank you, dear colleague. It is up to counterpart Kovacevic, five minutes final on behalf of HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1172	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, I'll be very brief. The HSP club will not be against VAT cuts, but at this point we have no guarantees that it will be implemented means targeted VAT reduction in the interests of consumers. Therefore, in accordance with our programme objectives, we have made more proposals than the introduction of a rate, to how and how to collect those revenues that already are and should be the revenues of the state budget. and we welcome this part of what the Prime Minister and Minister Schuker have announced that this begins with a reform of the tax system in Croatia, because this is more inadmissible that our tax system is only in the function of filling the state budget. We expect, and according to our proposals, that the tax system will be in the development function and that we will make maximum use of internal investment-related reserves, means encouraging employment. One large part is found within the state budget itself, or through the management of the state budget with the attention of a good host can be saved at year level from 5 to 10%, and that is up to 7 billion kuna, because it is only enough to look at the items of the current state budget, so intellectual services and material costs, furniture and all other things to come by the care of a good host. Plus the use of this part of foreign exchange savings for Croatian citizens and with certainly encouraging the development of tourism and agriculture through the state bank and this should be the Croatian Post Bank. So we have these suggestions that we've given you, and we hope you'll put the new part inside. So by the end of the bill, the new tax system that will be developed will be defined and maintained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1173	Thank you. The final five minutes on behalf of the Croatian party of retired fellow Sudec. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1174	Allow me ladies and gentlemen of the council to apologize if I have responded, and I have a slight feeling that something is going on outside of me. Obviously, I was wrong because I was raising a replica and it wasn't a replica, it was a correction of the quote. But I don't want to correct others. I just want to say why we support Mr. Shucker's proposal here, he said. I come from a third constituency unit where the pensioner on average has a 1380 kn pension. It's the average pension of Međimurje, Varazdin, and Krapina. We have done a wider survey in the mother of the Croatian pensioners, and we have come to the fact that our basket of consumption differs from what people here talk about. I mean, if we weren't convinced this was going in favor of the pensioners, you'd be safe to vote for this proposal. If the pensioners have to pay 860 kn, the VATE 22 goes to 860 kn. Water, electricity, gas and I'm not talking. Then comes transport, phone, then come drugs that aren't on the list, repairs for home appliances, even though three pensioners together buy the press if they buy it. For that, let's make it 150 kn. They're left with 300 kn. Of the 300 kn, they spend at a store in a regular sale, they spend 150. And 150 spend on a green market where there's no VAT. So you now calculate why we support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1175	Nothing. We accept an apology. Correction of the incorrect quote by colleague Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1176	I'll fix it in the part where my colleague says he's encouraging this contrary to the motion we're proposing with differentiated rates. Then the Međimurje pensioner with a law like this will get an increased purchasing power of 22 kuna, and if it was differentiated rate, it would get 113 kuna, so let them decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1177	Thank you very much. The final word of the proposer's representative has a word from the finance minister, Mr Shuker. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1178	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, here's the end of this to say "worry days," thank you to all the MPs for one debate. Frankly speaking, given how current the PDWE has been since its introduction to this day should not have expected a different discussion than this. So thank you all for the suggestions and suggestions. But apparently there are two concepts of advent, one is a government, the other is part of an opposition party, and the other have overruns. BUT what I have taken for granted is the right to sort of agree on what we all agreed on during this whole day's debate that Croatia needs a reform of the tax system. Croatia needs to put order into public finances and a quality system should be developed for the collection of tax revenues, i.e. for charging the country's budget. And if we all agree on this, then be assured that we will very simply agree on the concept of tax reform. Because if in this concept we cover all tax revenues and the creation of order in public finances and the creation of an income collection system increases the collection of ongoes which must come into the state budget. Because let's not make laws if we know in advance that we won't be able to apply them. No one has the right to take their own to decide which tax they want or which tax they will not pay. We just have to get it out of our heads to those who think that way. So if we can do that, then we'll create preconditions for a quality tax reform, which may have been a consensus here today, which is a tax reform that will be directly stimulated by the economy. So directly inject money into the economy. And the primary goal of this ministry is before the world to do these three things I said. And what I've said several times today, this linear reduction of a 2% rate, is the first step in tax reform this government is going to propose. And what I particularly stress is the tax reform of local self-government units, so their election revenues. Unfortunately, in recent years nothing has been done. We still today have communal contributions and communal fees that virtually no modern country in the world has. I think we must certainly create an opportunity for higher incomes and better quality contributions there. And then, in some things, they'll probably argue differently. So thank you all for the debate. By the second reading, the government will consider any proposals or with a final draft of the law. But I'm saying I'm glad that we're getting into those key things where the Ministry of Finance insists that we have reached one consensus in today's whole day's debate. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1179	Thank you, Mr. Minister. My colleagues and colleagues, as announced by the President of the Parliament tomorrow, we begin with the agenda of the Preddeg Law on Amendment and Completion of the Law of Ord. And we continue the points behind that. Now I wish you good night. We'll be back at 9:30 tomorrow, 9:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1180	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the debated agenda points of this session. First is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, First Reading, P.Z. Number 8. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Please, come in, colleague Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1181	Mr. President, on behalf of the HSS Club, please pause for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1182	Please. Thank you very much. Ten-minute break. I ask the representatives of the others to stay seated. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to work after this break. I'm asking the representative of the HSS Club to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1184	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen and ladies representatives of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. Let me explain on behalf of the HSS Club the reasons for this break. Before the vote on VAT itself, I would like to express my commitment to the HSS Club to reduce all those tax burdens that should be contributed to both citizens and entrepreneurs. I would like to emphasise our commitment to the final and permanent regulation and harmonisation of the fiscal system, and the most important instruments and measures of fiscal policy. I would also like to point out that, with regard to the reduction of burdens above all, there is absolute attachment and very clear views of the HSS which are when compared to the proposal in this form, and one and the other proposal advocates reducing tax burdens. Our differences are primarily evident in the way that this tax burden is achieved and related to certain goals that would be achieved. No one denied the aim of discharging citizens and entrepreneurship. It is precisely that the Value Added Tax Act is one of those categories that I think we share the opinion of all makes one important and significant leverage within the context of the national responsible messages, and the fact that VAT has not changed over the years speaks about the importance of this Law. It is precisely because of the importance of this Law but it also does better and better quality practice, the custom in this Parliament that important things, national things, things that will be significantly affected tomorrow by the growth of the economy, the standard of life, and the position of the Republic of Croatia to bring them in line, to be adopted on the basis of compromises and those who propose this Law and who are trying to make this Law look better. The compromise is necessary and for Croatia's sake, the compromise is necessary today for both the ruling party and the opposition. The compromise can open a new way of looking at Croatia, the compromise is needed by all both authorities and opposition. That is why unnecessary speed often leads to wrong decisions, the unnecessary speed was shown yesterday when the diametrically opposite views on the state of public finances seemed insurmountable to agree overnight. We are pleased and welcome to agree that our views and that our public finances are in good shape, we welcome this, but we needlessly have set ourselves up certain problems that on the outside can result in a certain negative impact on what awaits us tomorrow. That is precisely why, in view of such an important and crucial law, we would not come again in the need for us to have this unnecessary speed on behalf of the HSS Club to postpone the vote on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act, and to try to agree on those differences that exist and to show that this Parliament can work differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-28-0.u1185	I thank you for this proposal from the House of Representatives Club of the HSS. Since I know that the parties that make up the majority and the government insist on adopting this law, we must approach the vote. I therefore give the following conclusion to the vote: The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, who's in favor of this conclusion? Against? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you. I find that with 78 votes in favour, 42 against and 7 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been adopted.
