ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6265	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Here we are again with these three laws before you, on your benches, on your benches. So the three laws we're going to discuss together. The essence of these amendments and the addition of laws is to restore the possibility of using three-year maternity leave for twin mothers, third and next children. So you're restoring the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave. I must say that the government had little to do from first reading to second reading until the final bill. The debate, at the plenary session, but also during discussions on committees, was not really an observation that the government would have to demonstrate, or essential remarks that the government would have to build on in these three draft laws. I therefore propose that this debate, if I may suggest on behalf of the Government, be true now about what we are proposing in these three laws that we are amending, which is once again a return to the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave. The debate in the first reading was mainly just political nature about whether it should be restored or not. We are the views since, in the meantime, the first meeting of the Council on Population Policy, the Council, which was appointed by the Croatian Government and since the first session of the Council is supported by this measure as the first step that could help stop the negative demographic trend, we are therefore of the view that this is the beginning of the first phase of stopping the negative trend, and if we are lucky and if we are together with you representatives in the Croatian Parliament, we will also take many other measures that this Council on Population Politics will propose to the Croatian Government, and then the Croatian Government to the Croatian Parliament, I believe that after stopping the negative demographic trend, we will succeed and, in a positive way. This is the first and main tendency to go along with these three draft laws and their amendment. At the Council that I am telling you about, therefore, the Council for Population Policy is also agreed to propose both urgent and short-term and long-term measures by the end of this month by the end of March. We will certainly inform and report on these measures to the Croatian Parliament. We also think in the government that, I will repeat our position once again, with these three bill proposals that stopping a negative demographic trend is a first-class and political and national issue. On the Council for Population Policy, demographers have, among other things, made another prediction that I think you should be informed before voting on these three bill proposals. They predict that in less than 50 years, an entire Zagreb will be lost. So there will be a real disaster in this sense, that about a million people will disappear, or that we will live in Croatia about a million less. That would mean, say, a major disaster from the face of the country would wipe out an entire Zagreb, the capital of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to remind you ladies and gentlemen of parliamentary representatives also of the fact that the Economic and Social Council has also supported these changes, supported the government's decision to return a three-year maternity leave to twin mothers, three and more children. We are at a meeting of the Economic and Social Council after the GSV supported these measures and discussed the position of women on the labour market in Croatia, as the fact that women, the unfavourable position on the labour market, stood out as a counterargument to make such a decision. So the Economic and Social Council has, in this sense, made some very clear and concrete conclusions which are of course required, and we will, in this regard, talk about the Government as one of the social partners, in a very good way, to coordinate the work of institutions for preschool and school children, to bring it into line with the real needs of family and working mother, to systematically plan to build preschool care institutions, preschool children and service services with family assistance. In this way, when the State budget is adopted, the Ministry of the Family will move very soon with some very concrete projects. We will then make clear on the basis of these conclusions of the GSV and help the private initiative to care for preschool children and also in companies and I believe that all these measures together as one mosaic can really help stop the negative trend. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that women among the unemployed today account for more than 58%, and of course, in the Croatian government and in particular, we understand very much the concern of a particular part of the public especially of women when it comes to their position and, of course, when it comes to all the measures that the state takes and which are related to their position. In the debate on the Economic and Social Council concerning these measures that we are proposing today, but related to the position of women of course, we have talked about very specific cases of real life that the Government intends to prevent in all possible ways. We were talking about canceling a work contract for a certain period of time during maternity leave, sick leave. Then on the work of women on night shifts, especially mothers until the seventh year of a child's life. Then we also talked about inadmissible cases of working at night for single mothers, of lack of infrastructure. Of course, the fact that the waiting lists in Croatia are about 5 and a half thousand children and so on, and so on. But we also think that, with the government's decision to try to stop the negative demographic trend from going in all ways and very good reactions from the public, there are reactions and different companies that I believe you see deciding to give mothers 10,000 kuna or more. There is also a very good reaction of local administration units, where more often we get news that certain cities, i.e. municipalities, also decide to donate to the families they receive, so both first and third and each next child. These are excellent examples, I very much welcome them on behalf of the Croatian government and, of course, I call on everyone and everyone else to get involved in this joint big business of stopping a negative trend, in a big business that is first-class repeating a political problem, a national problem. Because it is quite certain that in 50 years, when the debates from the Croatian Parliament are read, when asked what mandate the government was working in, they will very much question how busy we were for this problem, how familiar we were with it, and what we did, therefore, this generation of politicians seemed to stop this catastrophic trend. At the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw further attention to the final draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act, Article 5. That's what families are asking most about these days, of course, especially mothers who have more children. So, since when will this apply, until when will it apply, who will it cover? So I call on Article 5, which speaks, a worker who has begun to apply the right to maternity leave until the day of entry into force of this Law can continue to apply this right to the provisions of this law. and paragraph 2, a worker entitled to maternity leave or the right to work with half the working time, i.e. the right to stay at work before the date of entry into force of this law may benefit from the rights from this law until the third year of the child's life. And clearly, ladies and gentlemen, since these laws must be discussed during, or before the adoption of, the State budget and the Law on the implementation of the State budget, I also refer you to Article 19 of the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, which says, among other things, the subsequent salary during the use of maternity leave from one to three years of the child's life, and now it is a great provision, but it mainly refers to compensation for that time, which, as it says in the Law on the implementation of the State budget, will amount to 1600 kuna. So the proposal is the same from first to second reading. This is our final proposal. I invite you ladies and gentlemen to support him, therefore, to support the Croatian Government's proposal to return the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave for twin mothers, three and more children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6266	Thank you. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to submit except in written form of the report? Yeah. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the Honored Representative, President Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6267	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister. The Committee on Labour and Social Policy and Health at the 4th session of the Committee, held on 2 March 2004, discussed the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Labour Law, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity leave of mothers carrying out the independent activity of both unemployed mothers and the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to acts on 25 February 2004. The Committee discussed those laws as a home working body in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The board members unanimously decided to hold a united debate on all three laws. During the debate, it was noted that the proposed amendments certainly represent an improvement in the current situation and are part of a series of measures of the most innovative policy to address the demographic situation problem. As it is a non-binding package of laws, each parent has the option to choose when using one of these rights. The problem of the employed wife and employer, given the 3-year maternity leave certainly exists, has been highlighted by some members of the board. It is therefore necessary to integrate the system with institutional and legislative measures in order to improve the participation of women in the labour market. However, it is also necessary to support these proposed measures that require a shift, and so is the majority of the committee members of the opinion that these laws should be supported. Afterwards, the board members decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly for adoption by two abstentions. The Law amending and supplementing the Labour Act, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity leave of mothers who carry out the independent activity and unemployed mothers, and the Law amending the Health Insurance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6268	Thank you. Do any other committee rapporteurs who have held a debate on these bill proposals want to take a word? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6269	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed Vice President of the Government, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. These three laws, meaning this Labour Act, the Law on maternity leave for mothers who act on their own activity and unemployed mothers, constitute a single package. Translated means it's the right to a three-year leave for all those mothers who decide to have a third or every next child, or those mothers who have twins. The IDS supports this measure. We, to be honest, even wonder why in 2001 it was reduced, if I did not cheat on maternity leave from 3 years to 2 years, when the measure de facto in the budget did not require any larger funds, by the fact that the 3rd January authority was the one that introduced the possibility that maternity benefits would be received by women who were acting independently, i.e. that authority was the one who introduced the possibility that even unemployed mothers would receive maternity benefits. So, up until then in 2001, these women were unsettled. How did the 3rd January government fail to capitalise that fact that the maternity allowance extended to nearly 20,000 users is unclear to me. But that's when it happened. In 2001, there were about 13,000 users based on unemployment. The budget was then worth about 250 million kuna. Unfortunately, because of the fall of newborn children, I am afraid that even though something is likely to increase, it will not be drastically increased because despite these new amounts it will remain because of fewer children who are likely to be born unchanged in the future. Why? Recently, the State Statistics Institute published results on poverty and their assessment is almost incredible and someone might say expected. I read a title where they literally came to the conclusion that a third child leads to poverty. So, let's do everything in this House and also by adopting these laws so that it doesn't, that the social welfare doesn't produce the social. In Croatia, 773 thousand people or 18.2% lived below the poverty threshold in 2002. A year before 2001, 17.2% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or 2002 lived below that poverty threshold for the four-member family was set at 40 thousand 433 kuna. So, if we have this information in mind that 18.2% of Croatian citizens live below the poverty threshold, there is no surprise in the data on the fall of birth on the premises of our country. In 2002, 40,000 283 children were born, in 2003, only 35,000 390 children. Of these, 4000 995 children were born as a third child in 2003 and as a fourth of all, a thousand 593 children were born. Why is that, say, like that? This was not the reason nor the length of maternity leave, but in my court primarily the inability to hire such mothers who opted for three or more children. In 2003, we all know that almost 90% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were first looking for a job or who, regardless of all of them, were re-employed exclusively for a certain period of time. Finally, who in this country is going to hire a mother with three or more children? Such mothers, unfortunately, have a chance to get back to work only in a state-owned company or a job in a state or local self-government or administration, and that's the gentlemen's point. Who will hire these women and we all know the conversion is after us, no more state or so on. Social property, something left in the state. I don't know, there are Croatian railways, Croatian electricity, Croatian forests or management, and we'll probably privatise that quickly, and that possibility of these women coming to work will be significantly limited to them. This House is certainly the duty of the Parliament as such to stimulate it, I will call it as the Church, a culture of life, but I also think that no one is naive that overnight, by introducing three-year leave, everything in Croatia will change for the better. It just won't. Croatia will be afraid to grow old. From Croatia, if a strong investment cycle is not launched, people will continue to leave instead of coming back and the growth of gross social product planned for the next year is 3.2% modest and does not allow a peaceful welcome to the end of the government's mandate. There are no relevant investments. I'm afraid there will be no bigger ones, unfortunately. And finally, revenue from the increase in production and perhaps the biggest problem is growing at some rate of 3.2%, debts of 25%, and therefore, with all these rights for which IDS will raise its hand as it raised its hand and against the reduction of the birth benefits from 2 thousand 500 per thousand 600 kuna should be opened and a chapter on how to start an investment cycle in the Republic of Croatia. Without that, and that's why I'm saying it, I'm afraid you can question maternity benefits, and pensions, and salaries in the public administration, etc., etc. It is clear that, once again, the programme we adopted here in 1997 was about demographic restoration and that perhaps it should also mention Croatia if we want Croatia to count again as many people as it had to build up with its head to talk about the return of the refugee population from these areas. The return is all we will agree and the political problem "condicio sin quo non" and without it clearly Croatia cannot pass. We see that this Health Insurance Act needs to provide 15 million kuna. So that's not some money. It means more symbolism, more gestures, but that law, as such, absolutely should be supported. It's clear what we've heard before if someone doesn't have to be on maternity leave for three years, but if it's possible, I think it should be supported. We at the club also welcome the increase i.e. return of maternity benefits for those other six months from a thousand 600 to 2 thousand 500 kuna or we will also welcome an increase in unemployment benefits from 900 to 600 kuna. All in all, the former coalition government in my court was supposed to do this by at least six months before the election, which is what the new government is pointing at today, in fact, that right shouldn't have put into question at all. All in all, with these legal proposals nothing is likely to happen spectacularly, but one norm needs to be made possible because theirs, after this norm, may be easier to decide on a third or next child. And whatever appears in that field IDS will support it, and so will these laws. However, population growth and the economy seem to be connected vessels. Without each other, it is obvious that we will have to open up sooner or later the other painful question of what our economy is like. If only two counties in the Republic of Croatia have a gross social product above the republican average and 19 below the republican average, then that is also Croatia's harsh reality. For example, of the 10 largest Croatian companies in Zagreb are even concentrated headquarters of 8 companies, in Istria 2, there were 3 of them in Istria last year, but because companies simply change your seat, they go the way of Zagreb so that income based on profits is significantly reduced not only in the middle but also in the entire periphery in the Republic of Croatia. For example, somewhere this year from Poreč the way of Zagreb should also transfer its headquarters to the Poreč Riviera. In one word, we have come to the situation that Zagreb is simply vacuuming the economic part of the Republic of Croatia. The fact that, I would even say, we may have run into ourselves by reducing the ministry from 19 to 14 and we have provided 25% more funds for the government in the budget than it was last year saying that we do not see what is happening in Croatia, instead of dislocating the individual ministries, today almost 70 and maybe more percent of the capital is concentrated in this city, so it is no wonder why the East Republic of Croatia is empty and why the population is only increasing in the city of Zagreb. I think that should also be discussed when this topic is Wednesday, I think that this centralisation, that this metropolisation leads and perhaps leads to the demographic rest of the Republic of Croatia being forgiven. Here, that's all we wanted to add. And as for these votes, I don't know which time I repeat IDS supports them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6270	Correction of the incorrect alleged respected representative Ivana face-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6271	Mr. President, fellow MP, it is an incorrect assumption that no one in Croatia wants to hire women, especially those who give birth on behalf of a series of great Croatian employers, I must deny this incorrect quote. So there are typical female branches where women are employed and where employers happily take women not only in these branches. And I wouldn't agree with the correlation that the poverty rate and the number of children are administratively proportional, exactly the opposite. With the rise of standards and the rise of conformism and... the number of newborn children per woman showing countries where the income per capital is very low with a large number of 7 children per child or where it is more developed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia can therefore also discuss why the number of children is such. It's not just the fall of standards that's the reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6272	Thank you, correcting the incorrect allegations of the esteemed prisoner Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6273	Mr. President, Madam Minister, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. Mr. Cain mentioned that the conditions for refugees are being created, and I note that there are even more when it comes to refugees that there are several thousand more border guards.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6274	Mr. Mlinaric, please correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6275	No, it's, it's an incorrect assumption that the border has returned. We mean that the border was returned several thousand more are in persecution that people have no condition to return to their homes, so please respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6276	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6277	I am correcting my colleague Cain's inaccuracy that the abolition of this right two years ago did not contribute to demographics, resolving the demographic problem of Croatia. In fact, recent research shows that there is absolutely no positive correlation between the length of maternity leave and increased birth leave. On the contrary, the situation of women on the labour market is getting worse, and this is the most important factor and the most important factor in domographic renewal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6278	On behalf of the HDZ Club, honourable representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6279	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Act, the Law on Health Insurance, which regulates the way compensation is paid for the application of the rights to a certain Labour Act, and we also discussed the Law on Progenital leave for mothers who carry out the independent activity and unemployed mothers. We think that in previous reading, we think that in previous reading, sorry, we all agreed that the negative demographic trend in Croatia represents its biggest problem in the long term. We've heard both politicians and national. We're facing depopulation, a reduction in the total population and its ageing. According to research since 2001. 630 thousand people are over 65 years old, which is 15.2% of our population. The adoption of these three laws is thought to be the beginning of a fight against the white plague that rules Croatia. If the birth benefits and maternity leave had not been reduced 4 years ago, or in 2001, they might today be discussing other measures of a national programming for demographic development that would encourage families to have more children. Catastrophic demographic movements in the Republic of Croatia compared to 1726, so for the first time last year, fewer than 40,000 were born. It points to the justification of all reflections and demographic interpretations that indicate the taking of all available measures that could help more favourable demographic movements. We caution that demographic movements are affected by many other factors, control of pregnancy interruptions, and we wonder what they are, what control they are in gynological offices today. Infertility problems, infrastructure development, shift kindergartens, mangers, housing issues, young people's credits, etc. All aspects of the innovative policy need to be talked about and developed awareness of the possibilities of abatement of certain activities. We have recently seen and mentioned fine examples of companies that are materially helping mothers and here we can say and praise the company Belupo, which has given mothers 10 thousand kuna. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity leave for mothers carrying out their own activities and unemployed mothers is regulated by the use of a leave of up to 1 year and 3 years for twins, third and each subsequent child. It's certainly for supporting and returning maternity benefits. We stress the choice of mothers who will determine whether this leave will benefit or not. For these fees, the funds are secured in the state budget as can be seen from the law on enforcement. The Croatian Democratic Community stresses that the population policy inevitably imposes an obligation to adapt to labour market requirements and employers' participation through greater labour flexibility. Surely in that part is the encouraging support of GSV. In practice, women meet with the so-called covert discrimination. In fact, the employment of a woman is being examined about family obligations, about the number of children, about the intention of having children, and so on. However, the Croatian Democratic Community believes that these measures, proposed laws, have brought demographic issues, with the strengthening of the role of family in society, into the very heart of the interests of state policy, and that we also support such policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6280	I thank you, on behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Ljubica Lalic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6281	I would like to thank Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here, after the debate was held in the first reading, we have before us the final proposals of the labour law, the maternity leave of mothers who carry out their own activities and not the working mothers and the Health Insurance Act. The whole package of changes refers to the extension of maternity leave to mothers in the event of birth of twins, third and each subsequent child from two to three years of age. The proposing proposal calls this measure a stimulating measure of population policy, as well as in the first reading and today we think and argue that it is a stimulating measure but least effective. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club will support the proposed changes for the purpose of enabling mothers to use three-year maternity leave if they want to. However, the expected implementation of the objective should be realistic and no spectacular increase in the number of newborns can be expected. Despite the objections in the first reading, even in the light of the final draft of the law, we did not receive comparative data on the movement of the number of newborns compared to the measures introduced by the most innovative policy. Such data would be a solid basis for an analysis of the effectiveness of the measures imposed. Without data, it can only be theoretical but also politicized and positive shifts will be minor. The economic development of the Republic of Croatia is a presumption of demographic renewal because in a country that not only guarantees the right to the right and to earn a decent man but also allows for the consumption of that right, the emigration will be seen to the least possible extent. Statistical data suggests that the eviction of a younger population who is looking for a better life goes to the drug world and, of course, returns children. The elderly return to Croatia to spend retirement days in the country outside of which they lived their whole life or most of their working life. The younger small part, which returns very quickly, is disappointed with the Croatian thinking of the system of market business, the level of reception, the conditions of work and the application of labour law and the escape from Croatia with no regard. So the shadow will never create a demographic restoration, no matter how much maternity benefits and how long maternity leave this Assembly has brought. To enable young people to hire a suitable earner to solve the housing problem to create a vision of a perspective future, and then the nation's extinctions will disappear. It would be very interesting information about the number of unmarried in Croatia. Very high percentage. As a reason for the chosen status, it doesn't usually state I have no business, and I don't know when they'll have it, I can't create an even bigger poverty. We are returning to Croatia's already said need for economic development. Therefore, the adoption of these laws requires realistic consideration and consideration of the goals to be achieved. Being overly optimistic and convincing ourselves and everyone else about how we've taken the perfect steps by opening up the possibility of using maternity leave for up to three years, for mothers of twins of the third and each of the following children, is perceived as ordinary politics. What the state does on stimulative measures is feed to those who don't have any children, or any child. Furthermore, by reading the explanation of the amendments and the addition of the Law on maternity leave of mothers who carry out their own activities and unemployed mothers, we will read Citiram. The final proposal contains the same text of the bill with certain nomotechnical improvements. It's a finished quote. But that's not true. There's something important that's different from the first-reading bill. The original proposal allowed unemployed mothers to have maternity leave for up to 6 months of their child's life. The final proposal equalises an unemployed mother with an employee because both have the right to the first and second child on maternity leave for up to a year of child's life. It was a proposal from the Croatian Peasant Party Club in the first reading. We have requested equalisation, and this is accepted by the promoter, so it confuses the further explanation of the applicant who says so. I'm quoting. "In the debate at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and in the reports of the Croatian committees, no concrete proposals for amendments, or additions to the text of the bill have been made. "Completed quote. And it seems to me that this argument has been given today in the opening explanation. That's just not true. Speaking on behalf of the Croatian Peasants' Club, I said, quote. "And now in this package of amendments to the law a little paradox. Employees are given the right which most will not use and for unemployed mothers, mothers in regular schooling and unemployed mothers of disabled pensioners due to professional inability to work, maternity leave for the first and second children remains only 6 months. It is true that up until two years ago these categories of mothers had no right to leave or to receive compensation. This House made it possible for them and it was not easy to defend the proposal but we didn’t think then and we don’t think it’s enough now. I believe and represent the view that all mothers are equally valuable and those who work in the ministries and government and not who work in factories just like those who work with their husbands on their family economies. And technically, they don't have employee status and those that are unemployed. If they are equally valuable and they are, then the duration of maternity leave for the first and second children should be the same for everyone. I expect the motioner to start an injustice." The proposal was therefore clear and concrete and therefore a startling argument that there were no concrete proposals in the debate. The explanation only makes sense if the proposed club is a representative of the Croatian Peasant Party and their proposals are nothing. BUT the fact that the proposal has accepted the club’s proposals to no one suggests that the proposals made are nothing. It is no shame to accept good suggestions, and it is to be acknowledged, not to conceal it with such a subversive explanation. We are pleased with the adoption of the proposal, but we are not satisfied with the lack of courage to admit it. However, the mothers were finally even, so as the time has come for their equalisation with the long-standing parliamentary representation of the Croatian Peasant Party's club, it will pass the time when the proposer considers it to be no one. Therefore, the Croatian Peasant Party's Club will support the proposed laws, which look at minor steps towards the right and effective measures of the most innovative policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6282	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6283	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament I am correcting the incorrect assumption that this is the least effective measure, and in the same sentence is being added. and without efficiency analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6284	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure of Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6285	Well, thank you, Mr. President, my colleague has done a violation of Article 209 because he has not corrected the wrong assumption but the wrong opinion. And I just explained in the presentation and said because of the lack of data the applicant should have delivered, we can burden ourselves. Well, this is just terrorism now, and we're actually not going to get to the point of measurement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6286	It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure because it's a statement of opinion, of opinion. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Zdenak Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the board of directors have said the following quote. "The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on maternity leave for mothers who carry out their own activities and unemployed mothers is seen as a real policy.". My colleagues that is not true, this is a legal basis that will stop the negative trend of demographic image in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6288	Deputy Prime Minister, Defence Minister, intergenerational solidarity Mrs Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6289	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Dear Mrs. Lalić, here, although I decided not to report, of course, to report as little as possible so that MPs would have the opportunity to discuss these three draft laws in a relatively short time. But I have to intervene now, I think it's important because of the further course of the debate and the possible call for one finding by the distinguished representative Lalic. First of all, on spectacular measures, so to convince the public that the government has taken spectacular measures. None of the representatives of the government or, as far as I know from the parliamentary representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community have spoken anywhere about spectacular measures, as it is absolutely impossible to talk about spectacular measures in this area. So, it is the necessary measures to stop this disaster that is ahead of us, because we've heard it a million times already, that less children in Croatia were never born, but last year. And this trend, of course, is worrying, is also being talked about at the Council on Population Policy. As far as your remarks are concerned, it's a shame not to admit that the promoter accepts some good suggestions. I have to drop it on behalf of the government. So this proposal that you discussed, which you were referring to regarding the unemployed mothers and the possibility of using leave for up to a year, was embedded in the original proposal and perhaps you missed it. Therefore, I greet him with all my strength. Here I invite you to take a look at the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity leave of mothers who carry out the independent activity and unemployed mothers in Article 3. So it's probably some kind of oversight, a little mistake. Therefore, good suggestions are naturally accepted, respected. and I want to show real satisfaction that the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support these three draft laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6290	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6291	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is not true, Mr President, that it is not true what the Vice-President said that these legal proposals are one of the necessary measures to prevent food, the negative trend of national policy. This is one of the relevant measures, and the necessary measures were the SDP proposal which has not yet come to the agenda on reducing VAT on children's supplies and the government has not yet delivered an opinion. And in addition, one of the necessary measures would be that women mothers have the advantage of employment as defenders do. That would be politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6292	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6293	Well, I'm sorry, Mr. President, that I have to correct the minister. Madam Minister, but after the first proposal, we both talked and asked to increase to one year. The original proposal was six months. The final proposal, we have a year for unemployed mothers and we welcome it, and we asked for it and suggested it. I mean, we should be objectively informed. So, in the original proposal it was 6 months on our proposal you accepted it and we thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6294	On behalf of the HSLS and DC Club, respected deputy vice president Djurdja Adlesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6295	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will indeed speak on behalf of the HSLS and DC Club less than the time prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, because we hold that it is necessary to adopt a budget before it to discuss the laws which are one of the good conditions for the adoption of this budget which has a record number of amendments, probably justified, with an attempt to arrange everything we haven't done just now, just this year. We have before us the law and with the aim of improving population policy and need to be perfectly clear there. The improvement of population policy is an important part of the Croatian Democratic Community programme that won the elections and should be recognised with special concern for multi-member families who are generally poorer. We will support the proposed laws at the HSLS and DC Club, because we hold that they are quality and we are particularly pleased that these laws support most of the opposition's clubs. Although we do believe that these laws only solve problems segmentally. However, the fact is that it should start somewhere. We hold the necessary, and here I would like to commend the Government, and propose that further talks continue, and that the work of the Government and the adoption of the whole set of labour legislation be actively included by the Economic Social Council, which the Government is already doing, but we also hold that it is also necessary in that part of the labour legislation which specifically addresses the issue of the position of women and families and NGOs, especially the women's network of Croatia, which has so far shown special interest in this particular area, had a large number of quality proposals that we could hear here, mainly by making remarks from the ranks of representatives of different political parties. The population policy here will surely agree to the best fight for a good standard of citizens, the safety of jobs, especially the safety of women's jobs. And we heard in the beginning from the Deputy Prime Minister that 58% of the unemployed are still women. The fact that women have lower pensions, that's the data we can also read in the press these days. Which could mean that women are the ones who work more often and in black. The fact is that regardless of the many laws we have passed and in the last term, the attempt to sensitise the public into the position of women, special pregnant women, women still question whether they will give birth, who will look after their children, therefore some important shifts have unfortunately not yet been achieved. The fact is that women work at night, and also women who are single mothers work at night. And some of the ministers just warned in the past term exactly where women could be allowed not to work the night shift, there was simply no hearing, even in the ranks of certain ministries. Of course, women are silent about their position because they keep jobs especially with privates. What we keep necessary after the adoption of this law, these laws, now it is already clear that it will be adopted by a convincing majority, is to develop other measures of assistance and support to families. First of all, we think of an insufficient number of kindergartens. As a result, though, a large number of kindergarten children are waiting. Also to that part of the job that we can do with a lot less finance, but a little more effort, it's an extended stay in schools and kindergartens. But also the advantage of enrolling in kindergartens for more family members, but also for single parents who have more than 15%. We want to remind again that it would not forget the promise that an alimony fund would be established somewhere in the fall, because neither the government nor that government had passed until now wanted to start the fund, and now it seems to us that there is a political consensus for the establishment of that fund, and that is certainly good. What the Government can do, and so can the Parliament, is suggest certain aid models that local self-government can also apply, especially in those areas related to health care and kindergarten and school work. But also especially support or at least praise what happened today in the Assembly, companies that provide special care for births and children and draw attention to those 15%, or more than 15% of single parents who are also our reality. Therefore, the HSLS and DC Club supports these laws, but expects the government, together with the Economic and Social Council and NGOs, to draw up a set of other laws that will really improve the population picture of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6296	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of libre, Honorable Representative William Herman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6297	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! In Croatia, maternity benefits belong to all working mothers for the first six months on the basis of the average monthly salary paid in the last six months prior to the month in which the maternity leave started, and from six months to a year of life benefits are paid from the state budget in equal and legal prescribed amount for all employed mothers, unemployed mothers, mothers on regular schooling and unemployed mothers on disability pensions due to professional inability to work during the use of maternity leave. This is just a small representation of some current state that will be partially changed by the proposed amendments to these few laws. But here is just two words: some of what are likely examples. These comparison examples through the available data suggest that 2/3 of European countries have shorter maternity leave than in Croatia and that Croatia is among the rare countries that pay 100% of monthly wages for the first six months employed by births. In fact, out of 31 European countries, only 8 of them pay various maternity benefits to unemployed births. If you need to tell directly to whom the proposed solution actually corresponds and let it not sound too harsh because it is simply true. You could say it's actually three groups. First, for unemployed mothers who still receive a certain fee but who are held by such a low fee permanently, must be said under quotes, "at home" and then actually without a wife or mother's real choice about this almost asylum. The second group, mothers before being fired because they thus resolve almost in a humiliating way their working legal status and this way any working legal status. And the third group, mothers from families with higher material status, so the amount of maternity leave fees in this case is not crucial. So what happens with the environment of a woman, the mother in our opinion is both the answer and the question and the answer to what is now the subject of the debate. So the quality of life, the real standard, simply a lively economy and above all the real possibility of hiring a woman and all that, of course, without politicizing and dry demagogy. State kindergartens, for example, can receive only 30% of preschool children. Here's the space where you need to intervene directly. A manger would have to accept six-month-old babies, and as much as a manger like that, kindergartens can really do that. I'm saying these are questions that mean trying to find an answer and a solution with of course an increase in birth benefits. Therefore, the proposed amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act and others, as well as with these amendments to the Labour Act, are therefore trying to create a system of maternity and maternity leave. On the basis of these solutions, the amendments to the Labour Act need to be stressed that it is actually a populist act or an attempt to achieve only part of the segment of pre-election promises and much less to objectively look at a truly multi-layered complex problem. However, the proposed amendments to the Labour Act continue to deviate from the concept of gender equality, resulting in even smaller percentages of female employment or further sexual segregation in the labour market, deepening the unequal opportunities in the context of equal opportunities in the labour market and labour force and further favouring the traditional concept of women and men's role in society. In such a context, maternity leave or maternity leave and we make this difference on purpose should actually be turned into a parental leave that can be used for such a long period of time as the rest and in parallel solutions only partially shown. And only if one part of him uses the child's father. The price of the proposed changes will be seen quickly and further bidding with measures that allegedly "in favor" in favour of the demographic renewal of the Republic of Croatia we seem to lose credibility in the eyes and even the professional and scientific public not only in the eyes of Croatian citizens. And a warning. In the light of the proposal for the Law on maternity benefits in the first reading, a sum of 10 million Croatian kunas was mentioned, here it is now in the second reading of 15. This is probably a change due to some new insight into the state of affairs and it should be warned that a total of 400 million appear in the state budget. What, then, is the actual amount suitable for such an intervention? We welcome the intervention but we would also welcome the honesty of those who are primarily responsible for the amounts in the budget, which is, of course, the responsibility of the majority in this House. When I first read, I mean especially the part relating to birth benefits we asked that if possible and should be possible especially when there is no urgency that perhaps or certainly prepares an impact projection as much as the expected increase in newborns would be, and of course there is no flirtation with 84. Orwel or anything that would remind you of something that goes into fantasism rather than simply a commitment of someone who thinks to spend or already makes budgets. So, we don't have those projections. We also asked to prepare for the responsibility of what budget costs would be for a long period of mandate or four years. This is very important because of the calculation and availability of funds. We also thought it was necessary to prepare appropriate fiscal solutions as well as those that would enable health, education as well as housing relations to find a solution that would create a real framework for the most innovative policy. How we think and without wanting to have any cynicism. However, we think that children are not a statistical figure, they deserve a decent life, their mothers also, and I will repeat, is a lively, developed economy, and also through a budget that will be ahead of us tomorrow, with more development investments. Simply, the Club of Libre will not accept the proposed laws for what is said, these three proposed laws that we are discussing in a united debate. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6298	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6299	Yes, Mr. President. I'm correcting that part of Mr. Herman's incorrect quote when he said that women receive 100% of their salaries for the first six months, which is not true. This applies only to women who have a salary of less than £4,000 250, which is the upper limit and the limit of receipt. So all those women who have more than 4 thousand 250 kunas were cut off by a certain difference to their full salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6300	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6301	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm correcting the quote of my colleagues in the part where he said that he suggested that they were just a pre-election promise without being a multilayered, complex approach, etc. So I would remind my colleague and correct in that part the incorrect allegation that this Croatian Parliament in 1997 adopted a strategy for the demographic restoration of the Republic of Croatia in which a three-year maternity leave for women, families with twins, three and more children was applied. After that, in 2000 these laws were put out of force and this is now in the Croatian Government's proposal, not only the pre-election promise to be fulfilled, but also the return to the strategy of the demographic renewal of the Republic of Croatia that this House has brought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6302	Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. I have to sort of correct one part of it for clarification and further debate. Namely, the esteemed Mr. Agent Herman said that bidding with measures, I suppose refers to this, is it, losing credibility in the eyes of the public and in the eyes of the professional public. I'm afraid I'm going to have to deny that. Namely, the Council for Population Policy, recently founded by the Croatian Government, which makes up the top demographics, so experts also recognise in Croatia, around the world, to the United Nations, just now welcome these measures. They don't think it's bidding. The research recently conducted by the Croatian public has been hailed as one of the best moves of the new Croatian government. Therefore, it does not stand, quite certainly, that your conclusion first that it is bidding and second, that these measures lose credibility and professional and any other public. Yes, of course. It is clear to me, therefore, that I am speaking clearly on behalf of the Croatian Government, that Club LIBRE will not support this proposal. Why? Because the club LIBRE has subsided with the Government amendment, which requires funds to be reduced by nearly 500 million kuna and 500 million kuna, respectively, in the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. And where? You are asking for additional maternity leave to be reduced by 400 million kuna and you are asking that the alimony fund that this government is proposing in the budget be abolished for the first time. So, it stands out 20 million kunas. You're asking for it to be lifted and, therefore, we're quite clear that you will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6304	Thank you. Honorable representative William Herman, correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6305	Mr. President, Madam Vice President. It is incorrect when you say that expert advice is what actually gives opinions on the subject. Of course, in an expert way, because the entire professional public cannot cover that advice. He's certainly competent, he's got his references, but in no way is it in general an expert public. There are very different opinions, however, contradicted and proposed measures, and equally those views which are not... In a word of advice. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6306	On behalf of the HNS Club, the PGS, respected representative Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6307	Mr. President of the Parliament, Madam Vice President and Minister. Allow us to say a few words on the subject of the proposed amendments to the Law on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the PGS. First of all, I would like to make it clear that the HNS Club, the PGS, will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law, although we are adhering to the opinion and as a club and as a party, we do not expect that with these changes and additions in practice, when it comes to the innovative policy, the most promising situation in Croatia, the demographic renewal will take place with spectacular changes or steps of 7 miles. However, we want to make it clear that we also think that small steps in this area that are a serious problem are very large and that every step taken forward will be welcome. It is certain that the suggestions have been made by looking at the angle that the interested have a clear social message and they sound good, I say, above all for those who are interested in this. They sound even better than what is the real position of a young woman in the system of work today, or as it is said quite harshly today, in the labour market, and I would say the same thing about creating a general climate in this area that we do something more and wider. It is certain that young women today on the route of a young female employer have many problems. That's what looking at these three years can do from the angle of looking at the employer's interests and making it worse. There have already been talks about this, both in the Assembly Committee's report and in the discussions of many predecessors. However, the fact that the whole package and the measures are in full, especially this for about three years, will make it optional for one who can and does not want to do so. For that reason, we absolutely believe that this is the step forward. However, we would say about this. In view of this and how the government is configured, and how the configuration and your ministries are finally done now, we believe that this is a lot of talk about what these three drafts of the Law are now about, and this is a question of improving the position of a woman in employment, that this should be understood by me as one of the priorities of your ministry and the Government as a whole and the Croatian Parliament. For a simple reason, there won't be any real shifts without it. We want to say that it is the most innovative policy, and that is quite clear, as well as the overall demographic recovery is a much broader concept and should contain hundreds and hundreds of measures. I asked on the parliamentary committee, and I think it's in principle and accepted when we talked about this, and now I'm going to say it right now. I think it would be good for you to ensure as your ministry that every parliamentary representative gets a strategy for demographic renewal that was adopted, I think, in 97. For reasons of having it as work material. Someone has it, this House has hundreds of MPs who are in the House for the first time, and I think this strategy of demographic renewal should be given to everyone. I'd just like to add a few things. It is only sure that what will be the most done forward on this path that we want, which is to perform a demographic reconstruction of Croatia, is safe work for young people who come and have a lot of problems in the process of getting involved in the work. A family who has one secure employee decides to have children. However, there are many young families who do not have one sure employment. Not to say, now you probably know better than I do how many young people are working on black today, how many of those who are unfairly working with contracts for a certain time, you know how hard it is for young people to get a job contract indefinitely, it's all a limiting factor. In the case of both parents, they decide to have children regardless of one or three, and that is what Croatia and the citizens of this country need. The second thing that matters was the same thing being mentioned. I think that we would clearly have to say that young families, in order to have children, must be able to provide their children properly, so the mangers are much more important than they are given the importance of, and the mangers that are extremely well equipped, quality, modern, mangers in which professionally qualified people work, the mangers that have the highest health care of children who are there and then parents go to work calmly and sure that children are properly taken care of, that they have the proper care. This is what needs to be done, of course, that if they were to grow next year, if they were unable to grow, we would absolutely have to ensure more significant asylum subsidisation for all children. The more significant subsidisation of the mangers for the first child the same as for the second, or for the third. I would just say that this topic is inseparable from a few other things that are close to the overall functioning of health services and health care in Croatia. We in Croatia cannot be satisfied with how they show the state of total health care and the health of the people through some indicators such as perinatal morbidity, improvement and perinatal mortality. Indicators from 89, 90 to today are not good. Therefore, we have certain problems in the field of primary health care and for children. It is extremely important for this topic, for the most innovative policy and for demographic restoration, that the top protection of boys and girls in the age of puberty and adolescence, including the top health care that has been so clumsyly spoken about in recent days, which doesn't contribute to all of this. Therefore, I think that if this is added and clearly maximum in the frameworks of basic health care unlimited care and care for pregnant women, it will all be expensive to do a whole series of measures that may not always be spectacular but that will make the situation for young parents and young couples to decide to have both first and second then and third children, depending on their commitment, the worldview and all together. Therefore, the HNS PGS Club will support these amendments and additions to all three laws, we believe absolutely necessary in this regard, in terms of the content of what we are talking about continuing to work seriously on a whole series of hundreds of systematic measures that we have counted perhaps only 4, 5. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6308	I thank the esteemed representative Ivanish. Before the next club we have a few notifications. The second session of the Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament will be held today at 13:00 and 30 minutes in Hall 133, first floor. Members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security shall be informed that a meeting of the Committee will be held today on 3 March at 13:30 in Chamber 102 on the second floor. And a session of the Committee on Gender Equality will be held today at 13:30 in Hall 233. And I would like to inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. It is next on behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6309	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say about the proposal to amend these three laws in relation to the debate that I last had on behalf of the Club, assessing these legal proposals completely insignificant in relation to the problem they want to solve, somewhat even radicalising that assessment, and I would say that these changes are not only useless but that they are harmful. Here's a reason for that grade. In addition to the fact that there is not one single expert evidence that the extension of maternity leave in any positive way affects the increase in birth and the resolution of severe and serious demographic problems, we neither in this debate, nor in the explanation nor in any accompanying document have we received such assurance and therefore the claims made here are definitely missing the target. We have a serious problem in this country, a situation of negative rates of demographic growth, emigration, and we have to deal with this problem seriously. In this way we create an illusion that we are doing it, and in this way we are actually hurting what we would like to fix. Madam Vice-President of the Government has said something here that seems to me to be a real fiction and I hope it will explain to us, that the United Nations has commended the adoption of these three laws and these measures. So, a few days ago, a professional document was published and no new Council on which the Deputy Prime Minister is speaking does not address these issues but systematically for four years using the experience of the European and Croatian experts to draw up a national family policy and these days last week came out of the study of demographic movement factors in the Republic of Croatia, this study was done by all these experts of the advice of Mrs Kosor and who in no place spoke about demographic movements and the need for it not to mention extended maternity leave. On the contrary, the Croatian profession puts first the position of women on the labour market as a crucial, crucial fact that can help the country's demographic recovery. The second place is the health care of women, families, children, etc., housing, services, kindergartens, etc., and this is not mentioned anywhere. I remind you once again that it is pure anacronism, nowhere in any European country you have no three-year maternity leave, you have such maternity leave only in Russia as one relic of the socialist system and in Slovenia they are longer than 20 months, there is no other European country that has. But what do these countries have? They have parental leave, it's funny to call something maternity leave that lasts three years. The mandatory maternity leave is no longer than 6 months in Europe, nowhere, in any European country. It's a completely abandoned concept here that advocates a woman being chased out of work. Why do I radicalise the assessment that he is both harmful or can be asked a question and why this government is proposing him, why HDZ made him its pre-election promise. It's a simple reason. Why are some of his colleagues in the opposition supporting him? Because unfortunately, the majority mood in Croatia is such that most citizens in this country think it's good for a woman to leave work, go home. The traditional concept of family is unfortunately the majority mood of people in this country. It's the passing of one, it's the passing of one philosophy, one practice that traditionally requires a woman to sacrifice herself on behalf of the family, in the name of the welfare of the social community as it is understood in the perception of most, unfortunately, our citizens. I have to say, when you look at the educational structure of that majority, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's no wonder. I agree that the choice of parents is whether a woman will work or stay at home is a matter of marriage partners, but I also warn that it is important to say the consequences of such decisions. If a woman is determined to go outside the world of work, to devote herself to parenting then it must be made clear that the result is the reduction of the overall tasks and the reduction of public roles that a woman has in society and the bonding only in the household sphere. It must also be said that the consequences may be that a woman stays married even though this marriage is not satisfied, that she will have to deal with violence, alcoholism, and so on. Because she'll be financially dependent on her mate. That it is possible to be abandoned if a man asks for a divorce or simply leave the community. That they will be employed for a certain time, not indefinitely, to change the social status of a woman and lead to a change in the quality of life of a woman herself. That small incomes that are additional to family income potentiate dependence on family fostering or encourage additional income mainly in the context of the so-called grey economy and that excludes responsibility for the success of family life and child rearing falls on a woman. It's the so-called so-called so-called. Goto pink collar. Not to mention the psychological problems of women, depression, frustration, hopelessness, apathy and the like. Gentlemen, I would quite well-intentionedly like to draw attention to the fact that the European concept of the most intelligent policy is quite the opposite of this. He leaves the entire concept of single-nutrient families, he is just opposite strongly advocated work both men and women. There is no better recipe for giving birth to more children than social security guaranteeing two salaries in the house. We have a complex problem to solve. The problem with these measures will certainly not be solved by this change. He definitely doesn't hit the target and let's not sow illusions, let's not sow illusions about solving what we said we were doing. On the contrary, I'm just afraid that we're going towards a deterioration in actually the position of a woman in the labour market. It's what can be experiential, empiricalally proven and nothing more and nothing more than that. And that is why the SDP Club cannot support the amendments to these laws with our best will and desire to support any proposal that will go in favour of resolving what the promoters here have been talking about today means increasing the birth rate, the birth rate in Croatia. And something else we have sent amendments asking for the names of these laws to be changed so that, instead of maternity leave or maternity leave, we are talking about parental leave and that both fathers and mothers have the same right to use parental leave and, in accordance with the good customs and traditions and experiences of most European countries, and that by giving birth leave, they are indeed calling themselves what they are. It's the 6 months when women, when women are really after childbirth bound by the law to say so, stay home. One good measure we propose is to de-distribute the amount of maternity benefits for the six months when a woman has compulsory maternity leave. Why should a woman be punished, I'm sorry that in my term we failed to do so, it would be useful and necessary, but we have a chance now. So don't punish a woman because she gave birth, deliberate her salary, and for the rest of it if we have money it's good to come, but let's not put in the same birth benefits rank and their height with something as trivial as it is, so ultimately I tried to prove harmful, like extending maternity leave to three years whether for three, four, eight or so, children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6310	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Vidovic. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The word has an esteemed representative of the Judge-Thrakostane.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6311	I've had a terrible time listening to this, so I don't know what kind of inaccuracies I'd get. I'll start at two, three if I get there in a minute. So the gentleman said that these measures are harmful which is totally incorrect because if there is no evidence that the measures are useful as he says there is even less evidence that they are harmful. So they're not harmful. It is incorrect to compare and argue with the mandatory leave of 6 months to compare this university, so at no time do the public know, it is not a binding three-year leave but the possibility of a choice is exclusive, and the submission of philosophy to make a woman at home in Croatia and the basis of these laws and only a democratic worldview that clearly differs from your view, and in that respect, it is only true that in this philosophical approach the world's view is different in the concept. And I'm keeping this concept better than the one you're proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6312	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6313	Mr. Vice President, it's really hard to answer all those incorrect allegations, but I'm going to touch the one that's been said that the proposed measures are harmful. This is completely incorrect because it is quite clear that the professional public is fully behind these measures and that what may be the most important overall population in Croatia per... It clearly states that these measures have come in a very good way and that they will have a positive echo. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also entirely incorrect that Mrs Kosor said the measures were even supportive, supported by the United Nations. That's not said at all. It has been said that experts who are also known in the United Nations are involved in the Council. So such an incorrect, completely false interpretation, unnecessarily in this House to get some other picture of something that has not been said. And finally you should tell the sports dictionary one who loses has the right to be angry, but this angry anger is really inappropriate, and I understand your well-meaning Mr. Vidovic within what is known as the path to hell is filled with good intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6314	Thank you. Time's up. The next one for correcting the incorrect allegations appeared the esteemed representative Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6315	I would also like to look back on Mr Davorko Vidovic's statement. It bothers me very much when it's said to sow illusions all the time. I don't think there are any illusions here, and everything that's been brought here has been brought to, based on something that has its own very good foothold. I'd just look back at a few of those. He says, quotes: “that a woman is forced out of work”. I don't think a woman is forced out of work, that's her choice. I'll just talk about myself. I was working and I was having a baby. If I was more ambitious than others Yeah. [[Intruder: I only ask for correction of the incorrect quote.]] It means I can end my maternity leave at two months and I'm back at work, but that's what I wanted. On the other hand, he says that it's best to stop and not to, not to mention single families, but to let both parents work. Well, you hear me, and I wish it was during this four last year and my husband still works today, maybe I'd still have two more.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6316	Thank you. Next to correct the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6317	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Comrade Vidovic, allow me to correct you. But in a maze, a lot of things you said, and what's incorrect, it's really not easy to choose what I would look at. But there's one thing I have to do. You say and you talk very often about the lack of evidence. So first we followed the expert public and evidence and used them. And even if that were the case, the absence of evidence is not evidence of a lack of existence. That's one thing. The second thing you said was that the greatest security and the greatest guarantee for improving the birth rate is two salaries. So you know yourself that actually countries with the highest social security of two salaries, even though it's good to have two salaries have perhaps the biggest problems with birthright. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6318	Thank you. To correct the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6319	Mr. Vice President. In fact, this whole debate has been missed, and it is no wonder that nothing important has happened in this Natalie politics in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6320	Correct the incorrect quote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6321	I'll fix it together. Unfortunately, it is not true that your government has been systematically engaged in improving the status of the mother's wife. It is true that your government systematically reduced the rights of mothers and the product of everything is, therefore, among other things and the smallest number of children born last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6322	Thank you. To correct the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative, Velimir Plesa, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6323	Thank you very much. Very short and telegraphic. It's incorrect that this law is harmful. It is incorrect that this law has brought about the rise of a philosophy and anacronism. It's incorrect to do that because the educational structure of these people that is coming up is the way you wanted to show it. It is incorrect for mothers to put themselves in such a position that they are depressed, apathetic, and similar to what you said. The only thing that's true is you said you tried to prove your theory, but you failed to prove it either today or four years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6324	That's the exact quote? You can't correct the exact quote. And as the last one, a distinguished representative, Maria Byte, appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6325	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague, Vidovic, presented a series of incorrect allegations. One of these is that the concept is harmful and that a woman gets kicked out of work. In fact, the bill provides a three-year maternity leave that is a choice and does not force anyone to leave work. Second, a colleague says a woman is asked to be sacrificed and a woman is punished. Unfortunately, counterpart Vidovic is also the chairman of the Committee on the Family, so you should know that a woman who chooses family and children is not a punishment, but a blessing, and by law she has a choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6326	I thank the esteemed representative of Mary Byte. With this, we've exhausted the debate by clubs, we're moving on to an individual debate in duration, I'm sorry on behalf of the motionary vice president of the government. Jadranka Kosor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6327	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Of course I have to say a few words on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which proposes to restore the possibility of using a 3-year vacation for mothers who have twins, three and more children. It is clear to us in the Croatian government that the SDP Club will not support these three laws, i.e. their amendments, for the simple reason that these laws were changed during the time of the former government, which abolished the possibility of using a 3-year maternity leave at the time of the former government, which also resulted in compensations, i.e. the amount of maternity leave fees reduced at the time of the former government and, therefore, one policy contrary to the other policy. The policy of this government is I repeat that this is a first-class national issue, not demographically alone, not socially, but a political issue, and we put it as a government at the top of our priorities. So, solving that question to top priority. Since it has never really been a more catastrophic picture in Croatia. We don't know why there's so much fear of more family members? Namely, this is one trend very clear, since these measures, proposed by the Croatian government, are called completely meaningless, useless, harmful and trivial. I will remind you once again of the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs that, the Economic and Social Council has given support to these measures. Therefore, both trade unions and employers voted in favour of these measures. I never said the United Nations supported the amendments to these three laws. This is completely incorrect, I just said that in the Council for Population Policy appointed by the Croatian Government, that there are also appointed people who are highly respected as demographers in both Croatia and the world, so to the United Nations. I would like to point out to Mrs. Alicu Vethemer Balletić, Vice-President of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, then I would like to point out Mr. Nejasmic, then I would like to point out Mr. Akrap, Mr. Gel, so these are among other members of the council. And I think that they can not give up their expertise, knowledge, experience in any way, nor in the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr Vidovic also said that the good measure you are proposing would be demining the fees for the first six months. We absolutely agree in the Croatian government. Of course, the question remains, why didn't the previous government do it? We will consider all these proposals very much and, as part of all these possible measures, possibly and that measure, if possible this year, it is not possible. As for the insignificantness of these measures as last time in the debate in the first reading, you called them three-and-a-half houses. I'd say that's what 11,000 employees of mothers have to ask about, for example, that when those measures were lifted they had to return to work within 60 days. I'm sure, and I have testimony from hundreds of letters that I received, that these measures were neither insignificant nor in the house, nor useless, let alone harmful. So, I'm putting in the name of the government, why would there be fear of multiple families? I'll remind you, for example, that the last government, the 8+ group that brings together families with eight and more children, has not singled out any kunas or limes for their programs. At the same time, the VATs for Croatia's radio-television, for Vjesnik, were forgiven, so the PICs were rescheduled, obviously the money was. And I finally want to visit again with this finding that these measures would drive women out of work, if it weren't true or that women would be depressed, I've reminded myself of the conclusions of the Economic and Social Council where we're going to put in place a few measures that will improve and I strongly believe in the position of women in the labour market. And once again by who knows which time I repeat that there would be no confusion in the Croatian public, this is not coercion, this is the possibility of a choice. Isn't the expansion of choice forward a step forward? Expansion of choice in any country can be a step back. It can only be a step forward. And finally, with the conclusion that the majority mood of citizens is such that they support it. Indeed, most citizens, as Mr Vidovic said, thinks this is good. 86% of Croatian citizens surveyed think it's good. So what do we do now? What can we do? You can't change people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6328	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The word has a distinguished representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6329	I'm correcting an incorrect quote. Namely, the incorrect claims made by Mrs Kosor are the reasons why the SDP will not support this law. If you had listened carefully to what your colleague Vidovic said on behalf of the club, you would know why we will not support this law and one reason is that he does not solve all those issues that impose themselves as a national interest and priority and are not innovative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6330	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6331	It's an incorrect claim by the Deputy Prime Minister that it's a matter of having children, which is what you said was a political, national issue here. It's still, first of all, a question of love for two people, a question of parents, and precisely because we're politicizing this subject, it seems to me that we're going into space outside of where we should move when we're talking about having children. And since it's a question of parents, give the fathers the opportunity to choose the university whether they want to go or not. Well, then it'll be clear that the child has a father and a mother, so it looks like he only has a mother.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6332	I must say that you did not correct the incorrect allegations because Deputy Prime Minister Kosor did not give that opinion. Next to correct the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6333	There would also be a lot of incorrect exposure to Madam Vice President. But here, I have not in any way questioned the expertise of Mrs Verheimer-Baletic or God forbid anyone else. You have not supported anywhere by any argument that what you suggest is part of their proposal. It has nothing to do with what Mrs Verheimer-Baletic is saying, and it is also incorrect what you say, dear Madam Vice President, that opening up space and opportunities does not endanger anyone. The employer doesn't know whether the woman will use it right or not. It creates a more unfavourable position on the labour market. His ignorance of whether this possibility will be used or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6334	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Jelena Pavicic-Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6335	Thank you very much. I would correct Minister Kosor's incorrect allegations in the part where she said that by correcting a three-year-old on a two-year maternity leave, that she had wronged her mothers and that the heavy hearts had to return to work. It's hard for every mother to get back to work whether she comes to work after six months or three years. It has nothing to do with time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6336	Next to correct the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6337	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Prime Minister has incorrectly said this is about possibility. If it were a choice between a man and a woman, then we'd be talking about the possibility eventually if it wasn't and I don't believe she thought about the policy of unequal possibilities. After all, it would only be true if it were possible for men and women to have the right choice and this is the case, in this case it is only the invitation of women and the most state-owned instance to stay at home, so in order to start Croatia we stop women.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6338	With this, we've exhausted the corrections of incorrect allegations. A representative of the proposing Vice-President Kosor came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6339	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! I answered because, of course, I don't speak here for myself. I speak for the Government of the Republic of Croatia and these are the legal proposals of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, neither I nor anyone from the government, I answer to the respected representative Jurovici, we have not said, and in particular we have told this speaker that the birth of children is a political issue. Dear Mr. Jurevic, she didn't say or think. I know something about this, so I was talking about the situation we are in when we are faced with a catastrophic demographic situation, when 10,000 were more dead than born, when forecasts are such that in 30 years, there will be no one to work in Croatia, that therefore the Croatian government considers this to be a first-class political issue rather than the birth of children. I agree with you that it is of course still in the sphere of love and family and there is no dilemma. As regards the finding of the esteemed representative Pavicic on three-year or three-year-old leave, this was not the case. It was about eliminating the possibility of using three-year leave. What you're talking about is only a possibility for children of the same age, so for twos, threes, fours, but I'm talking on behalf of the government about something else, it means ending the possibility of using three-year leave for mothers who have three and more children. That's a big difference. And as for the finding that these proposals will not allow for choice, I remind myself that the source of these rights is the protection of motherhood and motherhood, and I think that this is in line with all the conventions that many MPs today are calling for in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6340	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister Kosor. To correct the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6341	It is incorrect that Mrs Kosor and no one on behalf of the government mentioned the birth of children in that formulation as a national issue. This is completely incorrect because Prime Minister Sanader in Solin said on the national issues of Croatia's launch directly urged young people to marry and give birth to children, in that order and in that formulation. Thus, it is a completely incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6342	Next for the correction of the incorrect quote Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6343	Well, it is incorrect to say that if it continues at this pace in 30 years it will not have anyone in Croatia working because the labour force issue has nothing to do with the number of children born in a given year. Neither today nor in Croatia, or today, but in Croatia, certain occupations are missing and today children or people who were born 18 or more years ago are working.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6344	I think the minister said if this trend continues. Next to correct the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6345	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect what the Vice President said that this legislative proposal is in line with all international conventions. It is contrary to all international conventions and I will specify precisely which Convention on the Rights of the Child which says that the child has the right to be raised from birth by both parents, then the Convention on the Restraint of All forms of Discrimination against Women Article 6 of that Convention, which is just saying that the Member States must stand up precisely with all the patriarchal forms that leave a woman at home and do not talk about responsible and partner parenting.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6346	Thank you. With this, we've exhausted the corrections of incorrect allegations and debates by the clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. The word has the esteemed representative Kajo Bucan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6347	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister of Staff and fellow MPs. Personally, considering each life is absolutely unique and invaluable, allow me to engage in this debate. Croatia has the smallest population growth in Europe in the period from 1950 to 95, according to UN sources with Hungary. And with the decrease in birth rate, let's add to this data that in 2002 there were for the first time more than 10,000 deaths, exactly 10,475 than live births. Not only is the fall of Natalie our problem, it's also the fear of the population. Population ageing is seen at an average age, or average age. It's the middle age of life at the moment of the census. According to Geography magazine, the Croatian Geographic Society is believed to be the ageing process when the average age of the population is 30 years. The age of life in Croatia was 31.5 years and 39.3 years in 2001. When we divide the number of older than 60 years by a number younger than 19, we get an age index whose critical value is 40%. The indexation was 34.3% in 1961 and 90.7% in 2001, which means that 1 young person comes to every approximately 60 years of age. Recognising this Final Bill proposal as a first step and as a measure of choice rather than an order, it joins all those who will vote for this bill. The problem is not Croatia's demographic problem since yesterday. Many have tried to solve it and we see that the minister takes all the positive efforts of the predecessors. And the government proves its systematic approach to this problem, by setting up a council on population policy to achieve a long-term goal on this problem. And the kidnapping is accompanied by the announcement by the Minister of the Minister's notice of an increase in birth benefits of 1. Seven. In 2004. In this way, I believe that we will never read again what we read in the New List when the Prime Minister said on December 6th 2002 that the money for larger maternity benefits is gone or will be there. In that sense, my full support for this bill and I join all those who will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6348	I thank the honourable representative. The word has a distinguished representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6349	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, and the representative before me who spoke again utters something that is not entirely true, so advice has been formed, but all the people who have worked almost entirely in this council in the past term, the mandate of the last government. These same people have been working on a project this House has brought and it's called "National Family Policy." Therefore, it should not be said that this is some kind of exclusive move of this government, so all these people were engaged because in this area of demographic policy there are very few experts in Croatia and simply everything that was and what knew about this area was gathered on projects funded by the past government. I don't know what times I think it should be said here that in Croatia it's no problem to motivate people for a third child, the problem is to motivate for the first and second child, it's a problem in Croatia because a lot of families that don't have any children, let alone a third. It was also said here that, I don't know in 30 or 40 years, it's going to be a problem that there won't be anyone in Croatia, but I'd like to say that we are already in this law today, but also all of what we saw through the state budget, we're giving up 58% of women who are currently in the Department of Employment, so we're giving up 58% of our brains, our potential, our energies that are outside the work system. Namely, there are currently 58% of women at the Employment Service and we are now at one rate that we had 15 years ago, which means that as much as possible is in the total number of unemployed women. In this way with this policy that women, instead of encouraging them to enter the labour market, we in some way encourage them to remain solely tied to the house for 3 years, in this way I fear that we will not achieve the fact that women are hired and entered into the world of work rather than exclusively remain mothers and breeders, it is one process that seems to drag us back and I simply cannot agree with that process. About how hard it is for women to enter the labour market, I'm telling you, for example. and several websites on the Internet, so, businesses or better said certain agencies dealing with employment interventions that give specific instructions on how you will behave in interviews you will have with the employer. So, among other things, it speaks and gives instructions on how a woman will answer the question of whether she will have a family and will have children. Each of these questions, however you find the answer and answer it, will be a question that will not be satisfactory for a large number of employers. And we've had cases where, for young experts, women, therefore, the doctors of science who have been employed in some of our companies even in the contract of labor, there was a provision that said that they would not, therefore, be obliged not to go to maternity care for a certain number of years. Therefore, the employer will need much more than these beautiful words of ours and calls to behave otherwise. What concerns me is that there are no items in this budget for measures of active employment policy, which is very bad, and I think that even such a move, so the means to encourage employment and all those measures that we have adopted in the last government, which can certainly be completed and something more qualitative, therefore, increased in them, so that no funds in this budget have been provided for such a policy. I just hope it doesn't fit the line for the women's entrepreneurship that we started, which has given very good results, which is mostly going to encourage, hire women who are at the Employment Office. Because we really took this seriously and I hope that this government too that the study, therefore, of the World Bank, has shown that the only obstacle to both parents' employment and I will say happy childhood is only possible if they are employed by both parents, and I absolutely advocate responsible parenting in which we will have children who will not grow up in a childhood that is not full of anxiety and trauma. What was the essence of the national family policy was based on research conducted by Ivo Pilar Institute, where not for example. is a fundamental obstacle, which is why parents do not decide on a number of children, or on the next child second or third precisely because they find it difficult to reconcile their work and family obligations, which is still the largest part of the burden of family obligations on women. And therefore, employers will find it very difficult to hire or improve people when they lose their jobs hard to get to a new job. Most likely when you're out of a job, you'll be looking for a job at the employment office for eight or ten years. Without a job, very few people will decide to have children because if they choose children under such conditions, they are not necessarily responsible parents. And that's what we as states have to do, that's exactly what we have in our national family policy, provide services that will help both parents to work to earn their wages and, on the other hand, that child care is being transferred somewhere to other services like that in many European countries. And indeed the European countries are going in this direction, not towards closing a woman in the house, and therefore the mother's sole concern for the child. Therefore, on behalf of the SDP Club, we wrote one and two amendments, since the debate was united, so on two laws. In which we try to change this one logic in which only a mother cares for the child. The child should be cared for by both parents, and that is why we advocate that this be a parental leave so that both parents and men and women can use it. We also advocate that this is being carried out consistently in this law on unemployed mothers, so it's really ugly to hear that one law can exclusively apply to unemployed mothers, there are unemployed parents and men and women. Thus, we must respond in that part too. And here are our amendments going in that direction to change that part of the law. To be a parental leave that will be found for both men and women. Which is why we still have to do this because we want to publicly change one consciousness for which we must and pass a law on the elemental fund that is proposed in the national family policy, which we proposed on behalf of the SDP Club in the form of legislation for discussion in the Croatian Parliament. So, because we obviously sent the wrong message to the fathers, which is that children don't care that children are only concerned about mothers, and that's why we need to change this logic and tell both parents are obliged to take care of their child. The child cares about both breeders, so both men and women. If we had led such a politician a little more before that we had tried to install another consciousness somewhere else with some of our own people, I would especially tell young generations here because it's too late for these others to change them. But for young generations, so this would be one move that we would certainly have in due course much less irresponsible fathers who would not pay child support because they believe that the child is not their concern. Here I hope that the government will accept these amendments to the SDP because indeed these amendments allow us to implement what is written under the Constitution, which is gender equality, so gender equality is one constitutional category. And I ask you to accept these amendments, because so far, with what I have said as a different policy towards Croatian citizens and the implementation of the constitutional category.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6350	I'd like to thank the Honorable Representative Opacic. For the correction of the incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6351	Mr. Vice President, it is entirely incorrect for women to be encouraged to remain tied to the house by these measures proposed. Namely, it's both incorrect and missed thinking of colleague Opačić. Because these measures open up the possibility for women to be with their children. Which is true, and it would be good if a colleague of Opačić would make an effort and read the expert studies that say that this is exactly the period. During this period, it is an extremely important proximity for the mother to her children, and that this is irreparable for the future development of the individual.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6352	Thank you. Next for the correction of the incorrect quote Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6353	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, it is incorrect in the debate of counterpart Milanka Opačić to oppose the innovative policy of female employment, their involvement in the world of work. Because in fact, one and the other policies need to be promoted. Legally protected and socially encouraged together. By creating a social climate of awareness of demographic threat, both the status and treatment of women by the employer will improve.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6354	I would like to thank the esteemed representative Puljic. Next to correct the incorrect allegation of the imported representative Ivana Sučec Trakoštanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6355	Yes, Mr. Vice President, it is incorrect to constantly impose the thesis that the only condition for promoting the birth rate is the employment of both parents. If you're already trying to say it's a standard, then it depends on the receipts one of the parents can make. So the amount of receipts. And this socialist approach that only parents have to be in a classic working relationship as employees, I think it's also accurate to state as the sole condition of survival. Because I'm not going to talk about who all the modals in some modern society are possible. So classic working relationships are just one option and that both parents are employed only one option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6356	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6357	Well, Mr. President, it's a violation of Rule 209 because my colleagues haven't corrected anything from my incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6358	That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6359	But they were correcting my opinion, it is clear that they have a different concept of Croatian development than I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6360	My colleagues aren't right. Because the claim has been corrected. The claim contains an opinion. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6361	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it is repeated and it has been repeated by Mrs. Opacic this way of thinking about the law we only tie women to the house. That's not true, Mrs. Opacic. By proposing this Law, we give a woman the opportunity to choose, give her a career and... It's your party's ideology that has problems with motherhood and mother. That's your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6362	Correction of the quote. You discuss ladies and gentlemen and exchange ideological blades. No offense.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6363	Read what you said five minutes ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6364	Thank you very much. Please refrain from exchanging different discussions that have a different background through correcting incorrect allegations. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Velimir Pleše.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6365	It is incorrect that such a bill of law binds women to the house, and it is incorrect for your lady MPs to say that in the event of your amendments your club will accept this Act. Or these laws. Because we heard on behalf of the proposer, or the name of the president of your club, that you would, without any condition, reject such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6366	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6367	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed vice president, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are almost perhaps already on the eve of March 8th we are here today bringing laws which are in direct contrast to the Constitution, because the Constitution is talking about gender equality. The truth was brought only during the last government. You keep wanting to say it here, but it's only a possibility, so why not leave that possibility to men. We have to run a policy of equal opportunities, otherwise it's about inequality. In direct contrast with the Family Law, I mentioned this earlier, which says that both parents agree to raise their children. In direct contrast with the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, with the International Convention to control all forms of discrimination against a woman. But one of the pillars of the patriarchal paradigm that the HDZ Government is again offering us is this precisely dualist division in understanding how the world, societies, and families, and also tries equally to classify a equally valuable reality exactly in contrast between male and female. It's something different. Here nature is simply fate, and politics is left for men and only some women for whom neither women in Croatia are subject to compulsory maternity leave, so the right answer to this would be to abolish mandatory maternity leave because the fact is that it applies to some relationships and does not apply to some. Workers are referred to, officials and subsistence persons, but national officials are not concerned. We should think about it, because the only fair thing is to abolish mandatory maternity leave and also give parents the opportunity to choose again, and then depending on their financial situation, they will choose. Here we have heard on behalf of the SDP club that the SDP has provided, and that in the future it will resist this understanding of life, this understanding of family, of education, it will simply oppose this policy of limited possibilities where a woman simply really sees herself as being considered as important to the wife's point of motherhood, the pro-creative nature of her abilities, while creative ones are not at all important. It is true that with this invitation, because at the end of the prime minister's visit, stay home, have a baby. Therefore, if this comes with a call from top state officials, from the highest state place, then it is something considered desirable in spite of the declared equality, despite the constitution, despite the law, despite international conventions. We'll sign them and say something that's for outside, but for home use, it's not very appropriate. So I think, gentlemen, that we should really stop bluffing, and if we want to deal with this really real problem, this is not the solution, this is an entirely demagogue and irrelevant legislative proposal that won't get the results that just the promoter claims it will. It would be interesting to see and follow for a certain period how many children were born in families after the entry into force of this law, or how many children were born after the entry into force of these laws, or amendments to the laws. So I'll repeat, that women with this proposal are excluded from the world of work. That they're going to keep moving away from that world of work, and that's how we're all going to hypocritically complain about these women that they're mostly unemployed, how they're harder to get to work, how they're actually being paid even when they're working. However, as long as women are excluded or sub-represented with positions held by power or power to decide exactly this traditional male value will be firmly cemented throughout this social hierarchy because I say one desirable behavior is offered. But we have to understand, it's something that suits us like this when we go around Europe, and we accept it so freely that politics is something that is work and a man and a woman, because a society that gives up half of its potential in advance and gives up on its democratic opportunities, but also on the other hand, families, relations in families, raising children is a job and a man and a woman. I guess everybody here doesn't like the name partner parenting. If you don't like that, that name, then let's hear a little bit of what the Pope said a few years ago about responsible parenting said. Responsible parenting therefore assumes both men and women. And well said colleague Opačić, then we wonder why men don't pay as a rule alimony, contribute, because from the beginning it's considered desirable behavior that education is something that is only determined and where only a woman is invited to participate. Growth is a minor delinquency and not only delinquency but also severe forms of crime. So the child needs both men and women, it's not a matter of ideology, it's really a matter of scientific knowledge. Today we had opportunities to hear something that offended the time of socialism, but only while the marriage partners lived together, and just at the earliest age the mother is irreplaceable to the child, but it is only worth it until he decides to leave, but then, even if the child had three months or two then he equally stands before the court in the fight for giving children and no longer mentions that argument. So I think that this is one concept that creates really leads to the feminization of poverty which is the concept of woman's economic dependence on man. And in the end, this is one of the calls, so where the direct state transfers part of responsibility to women. So that's a message, there's few of us, you women stay home. Unemployment is, you women get fired first. So all the problems of society continue, that is, to the point of potential, to shift over the back of women, unfortunately and not just across their backs. Therefore, if the state, if the government wants a true solution to this problem, then considerable resources should be allocated. So I think what I've said before, which is why the government is deaf to the SDP's legal proposal to cut VAT to children's needs. Why go deaf to the possibility that a woman who is, and just the woman who gave birth to three children, has the advantage of hiring. In doing so, several options that cost nothing would cost this last measure, which would allow us to achieve several opportunities, its economic dependence, and ultimately, more children would be born. So I think it would be one real policy, it would be a society, it would be a state, it would be a government that highly values a woman and her abilities, and like this it seems to me that this is a cheap policy with cheap rhetoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6368	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6369	Mr. President. It is difficult to listen to this amount of incorrect allegations, but let me first respond to the incorrect assumption that it is an incorrect, arrogant and casual assumption that it is measures that are contrary to international conventions. It's really completely incorrect and it doesn't stand in the context. It is also entirely incorrect that it is about bluffing because this is not about any bluff but about the measures that are concrete and which will be implemented and which are the result of all those and promises, but also of good intentions to help everyone in this part, and it is really interesting to finally listen to the prerogatives about the demagogy of a party's followers and a practical demagogy. That's really interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6370	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6371	Thank you very much, Mr. President. counterpart Anticevic-Marinovic said the laws are contrary to the constitution. That's not true. Article 61 and 62 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says that the family is particularly protected by the state, that the state protects motherhood, children and youth and creates social, cultural, educational, material and other conditions that promote the right to a decent life. And if it were demagogue, colleagues have already said, it's a three-year maternity leave, the right choice. However, what counterpart Anticevic said, related to gender equality, that it was all expensive hypocrisy, etc. However, I would tell my colleague yes, she said that only a woman was invited to participate and that it was a matter of scientific knowledge. UNICEF advocates breastfeeding children, children. Well, I don't know if a woman works to get her father to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6372	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6373	I'd just look back at some of the thoughts Mrs. Anticevic made. Among other things, she said that we should follow and see how much the length of maternity leave affects the birth of children. Of course, it has already been followed over the past four years, so it was seen when the maternity leave was abolished that the number of children born was reduced. So four full years were followed. Secondly, Mrs Anticevic stated that maternity leave is not mandatory for all women, so she stated, for state officials, that it does not apply, and for officials and workers, that it is mandatory. He's, he's not bound, he's just allowed to use it. Therefore, if they were not ambitious, state officials would not have come to those positions and they did not use it, not necessarily.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6374	Thank you very much. The next ID, a respected representative, Vice President Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6375	Your Honor, Mr. President. Honorable representative Ingrid Antičević because she said that we should stop using bluffing, probably through this Law she also alluded to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And what I'm saying is that we rejected bluffing as a method that the government ruled the coalition government as a method of governance over the next four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6376	Replica. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6377	Yeah, I wouldn't care about everything in the wrong quote, and I'll give the lady a chance to say it again, if there's anything on my line. And I want to report on behalf of all those women who won't get a chance to pay attention to the pay phone, the ones who listen to us now and look at us, about a series of women who think differently. So, isn't it the highlight, Mrs. Anticevic, of a woman's freedom to decide to have a child in the community she fits and I allow it. And isn't it the state that should only allow someone to choose, then, within those possibilities, what suits him best? And no one here is talking, and we keep talking about women who still make up a smaller number of our women's total population, women who have never been through the last 50 years in working relationships, and today they're not in classical. These are our farmers who are also eager to wait for this Law, who will get a new chance to use those receipts after three years. We don't talk, I repeat, about those women who nurse children, some or three, some or two. Mostly, therefore, that woman grows healthy. We're not talking about a series of women who find new opportunities under these laws, not the classic ones, and if not the captured woman who has to drag her child on a tram at 5:00 in the morning and work on the tape by afternoon. Well, then, for emancipation, it takes the burden of housework, and isn't it more free that woman who can secure life a little different from that? So, I wouldn't let that one thought be constantly imposed where I said that the world's sensors are conflicting, but in this proposal of the government and in these laws I see the opening of those small doors for a new freedom, even just a woman at this moment. I hope it equals later, and if we just have...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6378	Thank you very much, colleague. Thank you very much. Replicate response, MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6379	Here, Mr. Vice President. Is she the luckier woman to have a baby in the morning? And why wouldn't a man wear it? The truth is, only a woman can have a baby, but a man can carry a child, raise it, and do whatever you assume only a woman can and must. That's the problem, ma'am. The truth is, all women can't be parliamentary advocates. I'm asking you here, how long would a third child have us from here and go on maternity leave with 900 kuna or with a thousand and 600? Except for his 16 or 17. Do not offer to anyone what you refuse to do, or you would refuse to do it for yourself. I've told you that before. According to...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6380	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6381	Thank you very much, and so do you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6382	Your Honors Minister, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6383	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I had to answer, of course, because here I defend the colors and views of the Croatian government, since the government, here, through this last debate, was called, or its measures, cheap measures with cheap rhetoric. Of course, we've already heard a lot of lunches at the government's expense. I must, therefore, react and, as far as the findings are concerned, that these three bill proposals are in conflict with the Constitution, that they are therefore anti-constitutional. I would like to remind you that the government has passed, so the majority of the Parliament has changed the Constitution twice. However, these provisions, which specifically show the protection of the state against motherhood, children and youth, remain. Therefore, they have not been changed. And I would like to warn Mr. Representatives that these measures exist in the Constitution and that the state according to the Constitution, the Croatian Constitution, in particular, must protect the family, motherhood, children and youth. So it's impossible that the amendments to these laws are contrary to the Constitution. Not even with the Family Law. I also want to remind you that even today fathers can use maternity leave. No one's stopping them from doing that. Therefore, it is also a matter of choice, which is not lifted by these changes. Commissioner Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic even suggested that mandatory maternity leave be abolished. That, of course, is totally unacceptable for the Croatian government and for the majority in this House. So it is a measure that the Croatian government will not accept. In fact, all these suggestions go against that. It is clear to us, however, that this is one of the points of view from which the proposals in the previous assembly of the Parliament and in the previous Government, where the law on the implementation of the state budget proposed to abolish the concept of "indulgence" for example, but that is, fortunately, not accepted. The president of the Croatian government and his family were also mentioned here. Croatian Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader clearly spoke about the proposed measures, the whole package of measures, the return of three-year leave, the withdrawal of maternity benefits and some other measures the government envisions. And in that sense was his quoted speech. Also, of course the government disagrees with the findings that this message is, therefore, the acceptance of these laws of messages in order to break everything over the back of women. We in Croatia think that the women's back was all broken up when the three-year maternity leave was lifted, when 11 thousand mothers had to return to work within 60 days and couldn't put their children in a nursery or kindergarten. When the Employment Intermediation Act was passed, there was a provision in the original form voted in the Croatian Parliament despite the opposition at the time. Where you're supposed to wipe the mother, the woman on the unemployment list if you don't take the job at a distance of 80 km, and an hour and a half drive. We think that at that time everything was broken across the back of women, and today these proposals are expanding the possibilities for facilitating the coordination of the parent’s or mother’s role and, of course, her ambition for employment, but also for her career. So, I refuse qualifications that it is a cheap policy with cheap rhetoric because in this policy, therefore, with the promise that we will restore these certain rights that have been welcomed in public we have also received citizens' trust and, of course, it is necessary now to justify this trust and these measures that we have been talking about back. And at the end of this debate, I just want to say in the morning section, or ask for clarification to make it easier to vote on amendments. Namely, the esteemed colleague Opačić said that the SDP Club could vote on the laws, no, then I apologize for realizing that if the amendments were accepted, you would then support these three proposals and amend the laws. Okay, then nothing. Here, thank you very much for your attention, so this in our opinion is neither trivial nor insignificant measures, nor threes and dogs, nor cheap politics, but allowing families to decide for children, to make their own small family, demographic policy in this direction goes and return the range from 1600 to 2500 kuna for mothers employed, raising 900 kuna to 1600 kuna for the unemployed and allowing those mothers who stay home for three years with children, so mothers who have more children get 1600 kuna fees. This, of course, is not enough with all the other measures that we are about to implement and, of course, the measure of all measures to create new jobs, encourage women's entrepreneurship, absolutely this government will not stop these projects, however, will further encourage them as much as possible. I once again appeal to all of you respected ladies and gentlemen MPs to support these three proposals and to be a joint project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6384	Thank you very much. We have a series of six corrections of incorrect allegations, respected representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6385	So I'm going to correct Mrs. Kosor's incorrect quote that the father can use maternity leave, that's incorrect because the law says that an employed woman can use maternity leave, so it doesn't say that an employee's parent can use it, and when we're with these constitutional protections of motherhood, I'm talking about the constitutional category of gender equality that should be respected in this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6386	Honourable representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović is a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6387	It is incorrect that Mr. President told Mrs. Vice President that this is not what I said, because it is not true that I said that maternity leave is lifted, I was talking about mandatory maternity leave because this in the Republic of Croatia does not apply to all women. Let's say that if they're government officials then they don't have to be covered by this mandatory maternity leave. Therefore, I have left the possibility and the possibility of choice as a just and just solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6388	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6389	It is not true that the vice-president, Mrs Kosor, said in Sibenik about Prime Minister Sanader's statement. He invited women to stay at home and raise children and he took out entrepreneurs and maybe other similar ones, we know that there are ministers who have small children and ok, they think they should work and that's good, I welcome that, certainly someone else, husband etc. That's what we're looking for for, whatever some ministers are acting on the recipe that we're proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6390	Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6391	From the full explanation of this Law and in the first and second readings, and even now in the presentation of the Vice President, there is some kind of suspension of three - year leave. That's what the law says, and the amendments to the law say maternity leave has been reduced from 3 to 2 years. So it wasn't lifted, it was reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6392	Dear representative Zeljka Antunovic is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6393	It is incorrect for the Deputy Prime Minister to say that one of the measures to encourage employment, or the obligation to accept a job, and when it is further away from home to refer only to mothers, by no means, it applies to all unemployed people, both mothers and fathers, means parents, but also to all others. This pathetic reinterpretation of something or misinformation of the public leads our citizens to think that we are in the SDP against motherhood, which is completely incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6394	I thank you, dear representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6395	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Minister said a syntagma that certainly has nothing to do with demographic policy. In fact, she argued that these measures would allow family demographic policy. This shows how systematically and comprehensively the government sees a truly dramatic problem that lasts longer and will have to be taken care of longer and more comprehensively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6396	Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mrs. Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6397	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's a very short one. So, we need to clarify obviously some misunderstandings, Mrs. Zgrebec said that I'm wrong to say that three-year maternity leave has not been abolished, is he abolished Mrs. Zgrebec. What you're talking about is the possibility of staying home for two years, you've left the government, and the majority in the Twin Mothers' Parliament, threes, fours, fives, and so on, and we're talking about something else, to allow a mother who has three, five, six, seven and more children to have her stay for three years, that's a big difference, because mothers threes, fours, fives have very little and families with 4, 5, 6 children have plenty and we hope that there will be after these measures and more. As far as pathetic interpretations are concerned, I won't comment at all, but as for what he was talking about, in order to avoid any misunderstandings between a esteemed colleague, Leko, I did say that this possibility proposed by the government allows the family to create its family demographic policy. What does that mean, what was I gonna say? Yes If there is a possibility of staying at home for three years, the family will and trust me a lot of people will come forward and ask if this will really vote in the Croatian Parliament, because they say here we decided on a third child because we can use that option. We can, we don't have to. Can a woman break up after a year or after I don't know what time, but I can, that's, that's what they're talking about. And that's why this government is convinced that it can be one of the measures to stop this negative catastrophic trend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6398	Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6399	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister, allow me to speak somewhat differently about this law complex than the previous speakers and quite personally. From the personal perspective and perspective of my closest friends. I'm 25 years old, and I really want to have kids. I'm not motivated by children and can't be motivated by any intelligent national policy because I want children out of love for them, out of love for my partner, and not out of some abstract national interest. I want to have children, but I don't want to get pregnant with the fear that I'm going to receive less compensation than I'd be paid to work as a teacher with a high-end expertise. I want to get pregnant, but only if I don't have to pay for a private gynecologist because the one in public health is working under worse conditions and there's no time for me as long as I need it to be. I want to have a baby, but I want to raise it in my own apartment, which I bought from my own salary on a loan that has bearable interest and tax benefits. I want to have a child, but I don't want my child to be guarded by a grandmother or a stranger to me who's not a raiser. I want my child to go to kindergarten in our neighborhood, not to be transported by bus to some tenth quarter because there's no room in our neighborhood. I want my partner and I to share not only emotional care for our common child but to participate equally in the financing of daily children's needs. I don't want to be home without my partner working day and night to feed us. She tells me my best friend wants to be on maternity leave for a year, and that her birth benefits are equal to, the same amount as her salary she receives as a high-skilled teacher. And that's why I support us SDPs because we suggest that we limit the amount of maternity benefits. One of my other friends who works as a PR at a big state company wants to stay pregnant without fear of losing a hard-earned job, is really hard to get back to work without an earthquake and does not want to experience a professional death because of the child. I can have an understanding for an employer who will sooner hire a man than a woman if he has given his employee an education and introduced him into a job, which means he has invested both time and money in it, and it is clear that he expects it to return to him and no one can hold it against him. But he can and must be resented when he hires men without looking at the knowledge and expertise of a woman because unquestionably every younger woman in employment faces the question of when you will get pregnant, how long you will stay on maternity leave, and especially now when the law allows her 3 years of maternity leave. I also want the employer to see my partner as a full - time parent and not be surprised when he wants to be part of the time on parental leave or when he wants to go on sick leave for the child instead of me. And that is why I support SDPs when they disagree that "de facto" parental leave is renamed maternity leave and exclusively related to the act of birth. I don't want to have an unemployed mother, and in particular I have a friend who has two children in front of me, that the status of a foster mother or 3 years with what kind of compensation is motivation to give birth to a lot of children and to temporarily solve the problem of unemployment because what after three years? He'll still be out of a job, and he'll have to feed one mouth more. I respect the desire of a woman who decides not to earn money, who decides to have many children, who decides to give her children all her time, love, and care, but such a woman must be aware that she must find a wealthy and patriarchal husband who will be able to finance the family. Because of all the above, I cannot support the proposed laws because the government is, but we all here need to make sure that those who wish to have one or two children do so. I don't think we should ignore the fact that in Croatia the problem of having a first and second child is, and only then comes the third and let it be to me and this partially personal confession and discussion is forgiven for extending my desire for my own child and I want it to be that my child has a quality life. And so I propose to the government and, in the context of what I said, that Prime Minister Sanader said that there are a little more ways and more to encourage young people to have children. It is necessary to build kindergartens, hire educators, professional associates in kindergartens and schools. There is a need to develop unemployment reduction programmes, and ultimately support SDPs when they demand the removal of VAT from basic children's food, children's clothing, diapers and so on. Because in the end, as I have pointed out by calling on young people to marry and give birth to children, unfortunately, there is no guarantee for these young people or their children to live a better life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6400	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6401	Mr. President, it is entirely incorrect that measures are being taken to address the problem of temporary unemployment. It is quite and essentially something else, and I am really surprised that my colleague Lugaric did not during the past four years when she had the opportunity to fulfill all her wishes for birth, marriage partners and everything else, her partner, that she had failed to realise in the past term when you were in power. Among other things, the VAT reduction measures discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6402	Honorable representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Honorable representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. He's not here. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6403	Thank you, Mr. President. These three sets of laws or measures that go forward are turned towards extending the right to use maternity leave, and counterpart Ivanis said on behalf of the Club earlier that we will support these three laws because I am primarily and personally observing it and treating it as part of the measures, part of the measures in the protection of motherhood as well as the regulation of the 103 International Labour Organisation. When we first discussed these proposals, I asked the question, I expected answers or even a part of it embedded in the bill or later on, I read a statement about the media and now I am asking Mrs Kosor to give me a brief answer in her statement. The entire program of increasing the birth rate in the Republic of Croatia will be in front of the Parliament by the end of the year if I am not mistaken and if I am well... It's too bad it's really big that this whole program isn't followed by bill proposals, but at this stage, because then you might be able to see better and know what other measures the government is going to propose because in order of the measures, I don't believe that this was the most priority, but if you claim that you have to do part of the promise then I'll take it as a priority for that reason. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if this is the end of the year, and your climate is probably asking her now whether this package will also contain what I warned last time; changes to the law on the financing of local self-government units due to kindergartens and nurseryes, their capacity and the cost of paying parents. The problem is in the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government. Secondly, whether the package will be and include changes in relation to the cost of schooling children because part of the education is also the education of children. Thirdly, whether the package and changes will be made in relation to the housing possibility of resolving the housing issue of young couples in the POS programme as a priority and additional bonuses to couples who decide on a number of children. These three questions are important to me, or your answers to these questions, so that we can look forward, expect, and we also prepare certain parts of that package. Another question of mine is, since it doesn't say anything in the materials. Do you have an estimate, did the experts give an estimate, how much would this measure lead to an increase in birth rate? So, a certain annual assessment, if there is an expert to give us. And finally next. I talked about it last time, a large number of colleagues and colleagues warned about the position of young women in the labour market. It is true, and no one has denied that a part of the employers are not happy and are reluctant to hire young women, especially with a non-determined contract, with the quiet reasons of mother pregnancy, childbirth, maternity leave. In the Labour Act of this country, such discrimination, in particular the cancellation of the labour contract, is strictly prohibited. And that's the part of the law we've taken over well from international standards and conventions. And I'm asking if there's any data backwards for 10 years, whether one single employer by inspection or the Croatian courts was sanctioned for not wanting to hire a woman who's pregnant, who broke the labor contract because of pregnancy or the use of maternity leave or what any discrimination was doing in the context of this matter that we're talking about. I note, that I believe that legal protection solutions are very good and I repeat what I said last time, the Croatian problem is that we do not have control over respect for lawfulness, which is one of the weakest supervisions in the Republic of Croatia, and sanctions on effective sanctions probably the rarest that anyone has ever said, and they are always the minimum ones never maximum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6404	Thank you. Dear representative Jelena Pavicic Jukičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6405	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, in fact, through the prism of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law, the thesis on the protection of women's rights and the fight for gender equality has been passed. In order to bring down traditional stereotypes, about the roles of women, men in Croatian society, let me allow me to re-read and even appeal to the applicant in this presentation, and in the context of the proposed amendments to certain articles of the law again, as in the first reading. The Government of the Republic of Croatia to protect the dignity of the fathers of the maternity leave users. In addition to the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act in part of the reasoning, it is clear from Articles 3 and 5 that the provision of this article allows the continued application of the right to maternity leave or the rest of the employment relationship to one of the parents of the child, therefore also to the father. It is therefore entirely inappropriate to call the father’s right to maternity leave. The mandatory part of 42 days after delivery can be called, but after that, by putting aside the current period of maternity leave on behalf of the SDP Club, the amendment proposed a term of parental leave as a better quality name. I'd like to get an answer to the question, why is it insisting on the term of maternity leave, which is related to the mother's birth and disqualify the father of the birth leave user? Let me look before me, as my colleagues, at the fundamental problem of the innovative policy in the Republic of Croatia. These are, in any case, limited maternity benefits and actually their height. This is a problem that is being highlighted daily in the media, and individually, so in individual examples, but also by qualified associations. She is not unknown in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately she needs to first stimulate the birth of another child in the family and best incentive right to share the benefits and allow families of newborn children better material conditions of life. We seem to suspect parental love, and to all people, a common reproductive need, instead of devising fees to suspend the punishment of all families who choose to have a child more. Unfortunately, we haven't heard from the government yet how he intends to protect the mother or pregnant employee, i.e. protect its workplace, because this is exactly the assumption of ensuring social security and even assumptions about the decision to expand the family. I am afraid that very soon, under pressure from the absence of the results of this measure, we will reopen the debate in the Croatian Parliament, about the fall of birth and the new measures that may produce results. And perhaps then we will finally get some expert argument from the expert public, whether from the government's commission or from NGOs, actually professional arguments that will help us to achieve a common goal away from political speech, which is, I hope, improving the demographic image of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6406	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6407	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Deputy Prime Minister. First of all, I will stay with my views that I had at first reading, which means I can't support this law, not because I don't think it opens up any possibilities, but because it doesn't respond to what its intensity is and it doesn't solve what it is, and what I'm pushing for, and what I've warned I've appealed to, and even to a greater extent, than it may have been said in the debate, so the question of the most intelligent policy. I really think that the issue of birth in Croatia is currently the most important national issue, and I am concerned that it is wanted by one measure that has not produced results in the past. I prayed at first reading that the government gave us data on the number of third-born, more-born children and twins in the past 13 years, unfortunately, we were given only information about the 97th year, and then I said that in 97 years, the year when the most born children, the third born, were more children born. And that after 97, which I then realized was the baby boom issue after the Storm, so the end of the war had nothing to do with the length of the maternity leave, and that after 97, the number of children born was falling. So now I'm appealing to the government to provide us with all this information, and not to try to manipulate the data on the number of children who were born this skillfully. Comparing 97 and 2001 and 2002 respectively. Really give us information about 98, 99, 2000, and 2001, not about the number of people who used a three - year maternity leave, but about the number of children who were born. What we need or for the government to be determined according to the national family policy programme and to say whether or not it will be implemented, because it provides a large majority of answers to the question of the most intelligent policy, or whether the government is really going to come out with the overall project of the most promising policy in order to answer the whole series of questions that are bothering us here. I propose that we actually define some concepts, so we call the maternity leave what is related to the act of childbirth, so 6 months mandatory and 6 months additional, and all of this is to be renamed and called parental leave, as it is also called everywhere in the European Union, and where we strive, we strive to become part of them. And likewise, it is possible for parents, therefore, and fathers to use this possibility, and even more so that parental leave is not only related to the first three years of their lives but also to be related to the preschool period of the child and to enable parents, therefore, both fathers and mothers to use such parental leave at the time when it is most appropriate for them or when they consider it to be the most suitable for child rearing. In addition, the question arises why to offer such an option or to provide such an option only for a third child or twins, why not offer such an option to everyone because if we are concerned about it and we believe that this measure will give such an effect then it should be possible for both the first child and the second child, and then for the third child to be able to use a three-year maternity leave. I agree with colleagues and colleagues who have said that one of the key issues may be the issue for birthright today, but certainly one of the key issues is maternity benefits, and I agree that they have been at a very low level so far, but unfortunately they do not experience a significant change nor the Law on the implementation of the state budget because we punish all mothers and fathers, so all families that have individual incomes above 2 000 and 540 kuna for the other six months, but we also punish all families who have more than 4 thousand and 250 kuna in the first six months. I remind you that the average salary paid in the Republic of Croatia during the period at the end of last year was almost 4 thousand kuna, which means that the increase in maternity benefits to 2 thousand 540 kuna will be far, far below the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. I see no reason why those who make more significant contributions to the state budget and the budgets of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance pay significantly higher amounts because they have higher salaries than it is limited that we cannot allow them to make the compensation they would make in the period of maternity leave because we punish parents who have children in this way. After all, if you go to classical sick leave, then you can earn your average salary or you can earn 90% of the average salary and if you go to maternity leave and the law obliges you to go on maternity leave 28 days before delivery and 6 months after the birth of your country then or we punish you here because you can have a multiple fee for this maternity leave. The alibi for why it hasn't been changed in the last term is unnecessary because we now have a chance to change it. If it's been a mistake so far, why don't we change it now if we all agree that it needs to be changed. And indeed I appeal, I have finally made such an amendment to the Law on the implementation of the state budget for the other six months but I think it is urgent and necessary to amend the law and to delimitate maternity benefits during the first six months. Finally, imagine even during your pregnancy you have a maximum of 4000 250 kuna. So, we don't consider pregnancy even a disease because when you're sick, I repeat, you have the right to be sick, which is 90%, and that's 42 days, I'm thinking about the employer's burden and the rest of it is on the burden of one of the insurance companies and if you're on the baby watch, then you're back to 4000, 250 kuna. So this really is one kind of punishment for all those who are in a different condition and the detimizing factor for all those who have a higher salary than that and are in, they think they have the first or the next child. And finally, I have to say that the company that supported the most important policy is Belupo from Koprivnica, who said that it would pay 10 thousand kuna to every mother for a newborn child and thus also supported the efforts of the town of Koprivnica, which it pays for thousands of kuna for equipment for every child born. Here we will get into a situation where a company practically pays more help to parents than there will be an increase in maternity benefits. So I would ask the Government to definitely consider delegating the first six months, that in the other six months it increases to an average salary paid in the Republic of Croatia and that the termological alignment of this law with what is in Europe, so that maternity leave is called what is called maternity leave and that everything else is called parental leave allows mothers and fathers to be on parental leave and to allow them to do so at the time when it suits them most and not just in the first three years of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6408	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6409	Mr. President, it is not true that after 1997, the number of live births fell due to the lack of measures, but it is true that most of this decline has been due to the fact that the children of our citizens were born abroad since 1 January 1998. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6410	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6411	Mr. President, I would like to correct Mr. Mršić's incorrect claim that the results of previous legal norms for the most intelligent policy have not yielded results. They were clearly and visible in the previous reading, so during a certain period of time when the law was applied and the indicators were visible. After that, when you abolished that law, there was a decline of birth and, of course, that newborn children were certainly not shown in your time when you abolished the Law on maternity permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6412	Dear Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6413	Dear President, Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that the demographic situation in Croatia that we all agreed with is that it is not clear anyway. The fall of birth is obvious and worrying. However, Croatia is also no exception, but in some ways follows the trend of other developed countries of Europe and the world. The fact is that society is more developed and therefore the richer the number of children in families is smaller. Few families with more than one child. Thus, this shows that neither the duration of maternity leave nor the amount of maternity benefits, or rather the proposed increase in maternity benefits, as the Government now proposes will not affect the decision of parents whether or how many children they will have. After all, as my colleague Marin Jurjevic said, children are a fruit of love, we have them because of ourselves, because of our pleasure and not because of the state. So no government decisions will affect our decision when it comes to children. The promoter said this is only one measure in a series of measures aimed at improving the demographic situation in Croatia. That is why a complete strategy of demographic renewal should be developed with a whole series of measures, not from the whole and palette of measures, but only those relating to maternity leave and compensation. I guess that was the easiest thing to do, and then it went down the line of less resistance. Because that's a measure that doesn't cost much in itself and it's the easiest thing to do with the legal decree of this... Speaker away from the microphone./... However, in the first part, I think it is necessary to develop a complete social infrastructure that would make it easier for women to decide to become mothers. Revolve relations on the labour market so that women are not disqualified from men just because they are expected to decide to give birth one day and thus be absent from work for a while. There are still a number of measures that a woman can make possible, such as Slide time, systematically build a network of kindergartens and mangers, because child care does not last just 1, or 2 or 3 years but lasts much longer. We know very well what responsible parenting really means and how much it is necessary to install yourself in raising children in order to one day become responsible, healthy people, when I say healthy people, I mean not only physical health but mostly mental health. We've heard it before, I think it was Mrs. Kosor, and she said it was a problem because children couldn't fit in kindergartens by reducing maternity leave, they couldn't fit into kindergartens. And then what happens after three years, if that's the problem after a year or two the same problem is after three years. Thus, it is the society that needs to be restored with one system-based policy to build kindergartens, mangers, preschool constitutionals, by developing adequate school services to enable parents to actually have an adequate way of taking care of children. And not only in the parent home, but also in other elements of society. So, first of all, a woman needs to be assured of safety, when I say safety then I primarily think about material security so that she is independent, that she does not depend one day on all the partners, or on the father of those children, and only then will the children be able to make a better decision, because it is not a problem to decide on third children, I think that the problem with young people, in young couples, is actually to decide that they have children at all, is to decide on the first child. Furthermore, it is necessary to develop a family that will build all relationships on male and female partner relations, a family where all jobs and obligations, not only home affairs, but also care about children, will be shared equally between men and women, or mothers and fathers. And in this way the woman will get more time for herself and for the time, and for her activities that are related to her job, to perfecting and progressing in the profession, as well as in other areas of social and public life because only so can the woman take up in the full sense of that word that place in the society that she belongs to. And that's why, in that sense, these amendments were made by the SDP Club. It means that the word "mother" in the law should be replaced by the word "parent" because in this way mother and father are equated in these rights, and also father has the opportunity to engage in the right way in raising and caring for the child from the very beginning of his life. Because to grow up, healthy children need both mother and father. Also of course automatic from this result, maternity leave should be replaced with parental leave. It is good that the policy of the previous government has continued that in their rights employees and not employed mothers have equalised themselves, but also this change means that if we are filling the word "parent" and not only "mother" we are in a situation and we need to know that we have a situation and family where the mother is employed and the father is not employed. So that way I can combine an unemployed father to stay home and keep the kids and the mother works. Normally, the first part of maternity leave, or parental leave, is certain to belong to the mother for reasons of course that need not be explained. But there are no obstacles to the other part not being used by the father. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6414	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Velimir Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6415	Thank you very much. Ms. Zassica misstated, and this is already repeated second time from the SDP ranks in today's debate that this law wants to impose itself in any way that a woman is dependent on a man, on her husband. You said a woman should be independent of her husband. In no way does this law impose such an attitude, this is primarily a choice of personal, every woman or every parent. And it's also not your exact quote where you said it was probably the least costing measure, that it was a line of less resistance, because if it were, in that case four years ago, you would have taken that line of less resistance and a measure of least cost would not have been lifted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6416	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6417	Your Honor, Mr. President. At first, I want to make it clear, and I personally but also the party to which I belong, we strongly support all the effective measures of the innovative policy. That what I'm saying isn't demagogy shows what we're doing. For example, in the city of Zagreb where, together with the HNS coalition partner, we have the authority, just on the SDP proposal, a child's supplement was introduced, 100 kuna per month for the first child, 300 per second, 600 per third, over 6 years for each child. So it's like this for you, a family with one child in those six years gets 7,200 kuna, another child gets 21 thousand and 600 kuna and for 3 children gets 43,000 and 200 kuna. It's help. It is a real desire, concern, and decision to help parents raise children. Here, we have already heard from fellow Mršić, the mayor of Koprivnica, Koprivnica, of course in proportion to his possibilities, the smaller town is one thousand kuna for every child born. It's a picture of SDP's concern for the most intelligent policy. I also invite other mayors, other cities, especially where HDZ has the power, to do something similar, to show in a practical way how much they care about this innovative policy. Now, we've started this debate whether these measures will encourage or not encourage the most intelligent policy. Whether they will lead to the birth of a larger number of children or not will lead to the birth of a larger number of children. The government thinks it'll lead. We don't think so. Please, that's a classy question. We can't convince each other now who's right. But it will show life, it will show practice. And I think the SDP Club after a year today, in a year when this bill is passed, will request here a debate on the results of these measures. So let's see how much that makes sense and how much that doesn't make sense. If it makes sense, we'll admit it's a mistake. But if it doesn't make sense if nothing important changes then our claim remains that this is demagogy. Demagogy that won't give the results, that sounds nice and doesn't do any good. So that's our attitude. I'm not saying apriors that we're right, practice will show it and we'll be able to analyse it. Look, there's a labour market, and there's justifiable questions about who's going to hire a woman knowing that she has the right to extend that maternity leave. So, why don't you accept the bar that our idea of him being a parent? Because then the employer has nowhere else to go. He can't discriminate against women at the time because he doesn't know if that woman will or whether her husband's fashions will benefit from that parental leave. So even when he hires a man he doesn't know if he'll go on parental leave. And then we avoided the possibility of discrimination. And that's what we're saying. Not that we are against this concept, but we do it to give the employers a clear message. Whether you're hiring a man or a woman can happen to you to go on parental leave. That would make sense. But now something about money again, let's go back to money. Look who's gonna use this. It makes sense to use a woman who has a salary of 1600 kuna or less. So it certainly pays her to stay on leave for three years, to have as much as she'd have in the company she works in. Or the one who has a rich husband so she doesn't care how much she gets. Because his salary is big enough to support the whole family. These are two categories of the only two categories to be used with this measure. Because you're calculating, let's just take an example of a woman who's employed who's got $6,000 worth of pay. The first six months receive an average from the previous 3 months. However, it cannot be more than €4250. It's a strange average but there can be no greater limit. 4250 kn. So for the first six months, she loses ten and a half thousand kuna. Starting right away in the first six months. That's why we're pushing for a deli, so let him take that six-month salary he's got at the firm. Not that she was damaged because she had a baby. In the other 6 months, 1600 kn per month. So this woman who has a six thousand-dollar salary, she's going to lose 26 grand and 400 kuna in those other six months. So much less will be in the home budget. We can talk one way or another, but that's how much money is less over. After that, he goes to work. It must pay child care 1500 kn per month and this will take 36 thousand kunas for up to 3 years of life until the child can go to kindergarten. If you don't go to the manger dakko for a number of reasons, and I'm a parent, I didn't put the child in a manger, first more improved there, the second and there isn't enough of those mangers. You need to make them, you can't find a place. So you have to pay for this woman who's going to take care of the baby. That's when you add the aces together, in those three years 74 thousand 250 kuna. That's the price. It's real money. Mio, we must think of making up for this difference, not joining the right time of use without caring about what these people are going to live on. Because they have to live on something they have to feed that child from something. The real help would be what we suggested in the VAT Act, which is the abolition of VAT on children's food, for clothing for shoes. Because that's the material aid, and then these 74,250,000 kunas of damage would be reduced. But we cannot discuss this law at all, Mr. President, at this session because the government has not delivered an opinion. The government has not delivered an opinion on such an important matter. So much for how much the government thinks about this problem in the first place. Of course, the mothers who have a third child, and stay at home as proposed by this law, will get rid of the costs for the nanny, but the ladies and gentlemen will solve the careers as well. Three years off work. Which is serious which requires and invests in the government's development on this job. So for that career to be a dead man. How you'll be back after three years. There's the medics. So you know what it means to be three years out of medicine. Well, you can't go back there anymore. You've been three years in an irreparable backlog. And that'll wait for a doctor's wife to use it. And that's what we're warning you about. Yeah, that's a small benefit. Give God the benefit of being anything, not even the least, none happier than us. But we're afraid, and we're proving it justifiably, we're proving it's hardly going to be of any use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6418	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by Honorary Representative Drago Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6419	Mr. President, I had a replica on correcting an incorrect quote. I'm sorry if I showed the wrong tile. I'd very much like to leave an answer to maybe something very ethnic that I'm going to say. You are constantly talking about one of the impracticalities of such a decision, or law. So, among other things, by citing the practicality of the decisions made by the two cities, the city of Zagreb and the town of Koprivnica. And some others, I think, is the city of Dubrovnik and so on. And among other things, you're saying you don't have any indicators. I would like you to give indications how much such a decision has made to improve the demographic recovery, because it seems to me that correct me if I am wrong last time Mr. Mršić was talking about it, but there is no effect. Which means if we're gonna end that measure then, I'm not up for it. And I'm saying neither are you. So it's a series of measures between the others and the one that you put out and the one that the government is proposing that ultimately I can really bring in what we want together. So here's another thing, but given the time I'm going to limit myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6420	Okay. If you'll just give me a moment. Mr. Vice-President, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6421	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I answered the phone, and I gave up, and I thought at the end of the debate, there was only one other advocate to be called in for a hearing. But after this dilemma, I think that here I can explain and enable colleagues and colleagues, or ladies and gentlemen of MPs to make it easier to decide how to vote. Namely this dilemma since this supplement is the support for children in Zagreb. Not since the start of the coalition government in Zagreb. It was the decision that was made before the election. So before the elections in Zagreb, he decided to give support to the children. That decision was made before the elections. And the absurd was that the government in which it parted most of the SDP has made all these decisions to cut fees, to abolish the three-year leave it if it continues. And then, before the elections in Zagreb, this measure was adopted which, of course, me and I in the government absolutely welcome. But as far as Zagreb is concerned, one more piece of information. So we're talking about real measures. Mr. Stazic spoke of real help in Zagreb. I, on behalf of the Government, would once again like to argue that what the Government is proposing is a very real aid, because it is also a three-year leave fee. As for the construction of kindergartens in Zagreb. In Zagreb, no kindergartens, no mangers were built in three years. In Zagreb, there is an uninterrupted waiting list of a thousand and 500 children and more. So much for real help. As for calls to cities where HDZ is in power, so those cities where HDZ is in power, as far as I know, do. Say, there's one of the mayors, raises his hand, there's another mayor that raises his hand. I know of Dubrovnik, where the mayor of Shuica, or the city council, also made such a decision, that is, the headship. So I don't think it would be good to bid that way. As for the finding that the SDP will request a debate after a year on these measures, as this makes no sense, according to Mr Stazic. I think that finding is in conflict with the 1996 SDP vote on the demographic reconstruction program. At that time, the SDP and your president, Mr Racan, who was then a representative, voted in favour of the programme because the programme of demographic reconstruction was adopted unanimously in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the SDP also supported the introduction of a three-year maternity leave as one of the most innovative policy measures. As far as projections are concerned, how many children will be born after these measures we introduce. This is one of the first steps. The government can't subdue that data. The government only has data that after a three-year maternity leave was abolished, the number of third-born children decreased by about 5,000. Therefore, it is the starting point of this government that proposes to amend and supplement these laws which restores the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave. As far as the appeal is concerned, this government accepts a decision to de-limate, to lower VAT. etc., etc. I want to show, on behalf of the Government, a surprise that these appeals are being sent to the Government today, which has been working for a little more than two months, and that they have not been sent from these benches to the last government which could also decide to lower the VAT, i.e. the demining of maternity benefits and other measures. Further, a reply to Mr. Trazic, why the government has not yet delivered an opinion on the Law, amending the VAT Act, the SDP club. Because the government hastily worked on budgeting, or proposing a budget to the Croatian Parliament, in conditions when faced with this, about $24 billion in external debt. Those inherited 6, those inherited 6 billion kunas in this budget last year and the fact that temporary funding, i.e. the provisional budget, did not provide funding for the first three months because we are faced with the fact that, for example, in the third month, we could not pay the salaries of the state budget users. This has been done by the Government so far, and that is why you have not received an answer, or the Government's opinion on your proposal, but I will make an effort as Deputy Prime Minister to get it to the SDP club as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6422	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Neven, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6423	Oh, look. So it's completely incorrect that it was some kind of pre-election trick of the SDP in Zagreb, was the introduction of these supplements for children. So the elections in Zagreb were in May 2001 and will be in a year and a half. This measure was taken about half this year. It has nothing to do with each other. Look, as far as this government's thinking and the Vice President's findings are concerned, the government was led to notice that when that three-year-old or three-year leave was abolished, that the number of third-born children had dropped. But it's a mistake to conclude. It's a mistake...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6424	Thanks a lot, buddy. You've corrected this inaccuracy first, and this second one's semi-emics and time's up. Dear representative Jelena Pavicic-Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6425	Thank you very much. Indeed, it is about correcting an incorrect quote because our project in the City of Zagreb is not part of the pre-election promises. Namely, let me remind you of the chronology. After the 2001 census and the processing of these results that came in late 2002, the debate on the subject was conducted by all the city district councils in the City of Zagreb. In late 2002 and early 2003 and mid-2003, we decided on a project like this and can indeed say that it was not a pre-election promise because we had started to apply it since 1.1.2004. So, after the parliamentary elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6426	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6427	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, is inconclusive in fact, in contrast with this situation in the Parliament and the government's own proposal because she is insulating the measure of the City of Zagreb in isolation. Beyond the context of the whole country and beyond the context of the economic and social situation. If we were to evaluate it that way, then we wouldn't have a negative trend.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6428	My colleague Leko, you really don't fix it, but you're polymizing it...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6429	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6430	You're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6431	An incorrect allegation that only one measure is insufficient is the government itself proposing only one measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6432	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6433	Dear Mr. President, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here,... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6434	Yes, it is. Comrade Marine, I'm sorry. We've got two more corrections. Dear Representative Mršić and Korenik. You responded very quickly, so your colleague Mršić has been registered before.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6435	Therefore, it is incorrect that 5,000 children were born by abolishing this measure after 2001. It is true that from 97 to 2001, when the measure was in force, 5 thousand children were born less.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6436	And a colleague of Korenik's. Here you go, correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6437	Speaking of cities where HDZ had responsibility for managing cities, I must say that the incorrect assumption that it was helping, here, for example, in the city where I come from, in the City of Varazdin where, among others, HDZ participated in power, was sitting here or at least needed to sit two members of the headship while we were discussing Varazdin. It's just these days that the city's head office...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6438	You're not correcting anything...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6439	I'm sorry, I'm correcting, I'm correcting.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6440	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6441	It is incorrect to say that it is being helped where HDZ is in power because a decision has been made these days to increase the price of kindergartens. It may be helpful to you, but I find it rather irresponsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6442	So as far as I know, I know, we all know who the Mayor of Varazdin is. We know you're there, too. And you're in opposition now? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Very interesting. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6443	We're in Varazdin or we're in opposition, but okay, here we go. I come from Split, it's a city where a thousand kuna is also given when it is born, a newborn child and we are part of the government there, but I really don't think we should look at it partyically. It would be good if everyone did what they could and I wouldn't paint this so much party. We're talking about a big problem here, and I'm really still standing at my point of view that the birth of children, it's still about birth, it's not about the cause of states, of nations, of any party policy, but that it's an act of consequence, therefore, of love, of the act of two people to be about something that parents. So, something that's first of all then, is, like, a thing and a parent. I think it's about different concepts. Since power can have a fatal impact on what kind of cultural model we're creating, which, if you want, is where we're clearly different. There are differences most clearly, and this debate speaks eloquently. It's not that anyone would be against any rights or expansion of rights, that someone would get, God forbid, is it, therefore, that women, mothers, etc. It's not about that, and that's what these cases say in cities where, for example, here in the power of the SDP, etc., it's not about that, but it's really unacceptable for me, I want to repeat it here because it's said by one of the most responsible persons in Croatia, and that's Prime Minister Sanader in Sibenik, when he called for women, stay home, raising children if you're not entrepreneurs etc. For me, it's one sublime way of expressing one whose part is this policy. This policy that we have not now entered into the details we have talked a lot about, the concept stay at home and raise children is not the concept of SDP, and there is indeed a clear line that distinguishes our approach to this issue from the possible way you understand it if we mean that Prime Minister Sanader, on that occasion he spoke as the party champion of HDZ. So, such a model against my personal attitude and against my party's attitude. I'm not interested in any Tarzan consciousness, I'm not interested in any macho model, I don't want to be a male in a family. So I'm one of the partners, I've appealed to you before in the first reading to allow it to be a choice, you're not going to accept it. I don't know why. You are calling for that both here and there but this is a concrete question why not to give equality to both men and women that if it is, the law will be passed you have a majority that you can choose. So I'm still saying that it's a different understanding of the essence of things, and it's not just about family. It comes down to the understanding of society as a whole, i.e. I say once more to the model of organization of society, so if we want to both in cultural and not know what I would call meaning. If you think of a woman as a housewife who stands at home and cleans up, giving birth, washing, etc., you think that a lot of help when you bought a little better broom, more modern, a new GT model that she targets faster, you left it in the same position, it's important to change relationships, what decor will change, it can be important, it will be easier with a vacuum cleaner than with a broom, so clearly, the hardest thing was in the cave, I guess. But if the same relationship remains, then you haven't changed anything because some civilization progress has led to you making it easier for you to be in a position where it's still subordinated and it's easier to perform, music still plays. I mean, that's what this is all about, it's a very different view of things, and I think this is just an expression of all of it. I don't want to be like a man subordinate, or when it comes to this, is why wouldn't anyone think that he can perform some functions, a normal thing to now analyze things to talk about breastfeeding etc. That's not the point, i.e. It belongs to that part of the maternity, and we're talking about parenting, we're talking about a long time of three years. And it's not real to reject thinking no matter what it is to choose a woman, but what if it creates an ambience in which it becomes normal that a woman is becoming less and less in the world of work and more and more in that world called apartment or house and is bound by four walls. We're against this concept, and that's what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6444	On behalf of the IDS Club, the respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6445	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, here's me at the IDS Club, we'll support this set of laws, but I'd like to look back on a few things we've already heard and said through the debate. The fall of birth in Croatia is of course not only related to the problem of maternity benefits and length of maternity leave. It would be bad and hard to believe that parents would choose to have children for these reasons, but in my opinion, a demographic restoration has begun, and it is a small microstep toward perhaps coping with such a problem. In addition, all parents should have such conditions because being a parent is a great responsibility both to themselves and to children and also to society as a whole. It's a big question of how to be a responsible parent if you don't know if he's going to be busy because when he stops arriving, there's no family compensation, so what if he doesn't have a job? If it's the mother, she's lucky enough to have a job to see if there's gonna be room in the nursery or kindergarten. This morning there were talk of some positive trends in some companies that would in some way hire such women who wanted to have more children, but don't forget about the Employment Office is a higher percentage of women than men, and it really will take a good job not to do so anymore. On the other hand, it is necessary to propose in a family and to have a friendly relationship with a child who must, of course, be desired and not have a third child because they are maternity benefits or maternity leave. And that's certainly how we're going to do it if we create an environment that helps our society to keep it from dying out. I must say that I really welcome these little shifts that are about to happen to these laws, but no matter how much they really contribute to our demographic recovery, I would like to point out the problems I was talking about and in the first reading and we will have to solve them in a very short time anyway. First of all, it seems to me that we have ignored the problem that in Croatia the average per family is 1.2 children, meaning that we have skipped out, which is what we are going to do to make the family have two children, let alone three more or more children. We should also enable each child born to have good free health care. These opportunities for free food for up to a year, because so far, children who are "social cases" have free food while others do not. And not to talk about health care is only mandatory free of charge and all over has to be paid. Thirdly, our tax policy should certainly be adjusted because children's needs are not small, so if we go to buy baby equipment for a newborn we know that it costs a circus of 10 000 kuna, we know that VAT is currently 22% and from next year is 20%, so you can calculate how much in these VAT supplies and then under these same conditions baby food, clothing supplies are paid to VAT just like for some expensive perfumes. So we should certainly propose through our legislation that the baby baby stuff is released from VAT. I'd just like to say that if the government really means systemically and systematically solving the problems of demographic renewal, then they're really going to have to do that, because that problem only with maternity benefits up to a year and a maternity leave of up to three years is certainly not going to be solved. But I have to point out one thing anyway that we are still going to support this little step as IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6446	I thank my colleague, Doroteji Busic-Bukovac. I ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mrs. Kosor to submit a final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6447	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the comprehensive debate, for the interest in this problem, for this question and I would like to conclude with great pleasure that these amendments and additions of the three laws will be passed in the Croatian Assembly with a great majority. It's a great big confession to the government at the beginning of her work. I only wanted to see more of my respected colleague Jurjević who in some way circled this debate, or this dilemma whether the Government is on one side, one part of the representatives on the other side, so here is Mr. Representative Jurjević using one picture, is there a woman with a broom that should be at home. I want to convince you, Mr. Representative, that no one in this government imagines a woman with a broom at home, but we will certainly show different measures that we want a wife and a career, but who can, if he wants to, and if he makes arrangements with his family, stay at home. Stay at home if it's agreed, if it's her choice and if it's her family's choice, then she can go back to work when she wants to. We also think that when this three-year leave is started, that is, when some mothers choose the possibility that, of course, they will be able to hire other men or women in their place for three years, so it can partly reduce the number of unemployment, or be one of the measures clear with all others that the government will propose. I would also like to remind you that we are talking clearly in some segments about different things, because I remind you that when the birth benefits were reduced, when a three-year maternity leave was lifted, then one of the vice-presidents of the then government because this happened in the last term of the last government said that he did not understand why such a great alarm was in public, and I remind you that the petition against the reduction of benefits was signed by more than 350 thousand people, 350 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia, then one of the vice-presidents of the then government said that he did not understand what it was about, because there are young women sitting at home, these are mothers who are born, doing nothing, and would still want support from the state budget. So it's obviously two concepts, and I also remind you that when the electricity price went up, when the electricity price was up, then it also came from circles of ruling beliefs that a woman should be at home and ironing at a time when the electricity was cheaper, and that's late in the night. So much for the position of the woman and how this government sees the position of the woman today in Croatian society. I, of course, am also particularly pleased that this issue, this problem and the demographic moment and the catastrophic population picture, as well as the position of women in Croatia, the position of women in the labour market, the fact that 58% among the unemployed are women, has been discussed in this term of the Croatian Parliament for the second time already, that it is actually spoken in this Croatian government and in this assembly of parliament more than it may have been in the past three or four years. And I think it's also one of the important steps forward. And clearly for the end, no one will have a third child normally because the state allows the use of three-year leave. People will have children, children will be born because it is what men and women want in marriage and because it will happen out of love, but it will be easier for them after these measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6448	A fellow Mršić rectification of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6449	I'd just like to say that children can be born outside of marriage, so they don't have to be just married to have children born.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6450	Very good. I am concluding the debate on these three draft laws that have been implemented united. Final draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, second reading, bill number 7. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, and the amendment of the Government was submitted within a time limit and was an integral part of the final draft law. I ask the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of the Family, the Defence and the Intergenerational Solidarity of Mrs Jadranka Kosor to declare the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6452	The government accepts the amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6453	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Amendments and additions to health insurance laws, second reading, bill number 7. Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 79 votes for, 21 abstentions, the Law amending the Health Insurance Act has been adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendment adopted. We would now move to a united debate Final proposal for a law amending the Income Tax Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 48, Final draft law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 46, Final draft law amending the Law on the exemption from the payment of part of the costs of health care, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 47 All three are emergency procedures and an emergency procedure is applied. The proposer of the law is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Finance and the State Budget, for work, social policy and health care, family, youth and sport. I would like to ask the applicant's representative if he wishes to further explain the proposal. Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry, Mrs Vera Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6848	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs and respected MPs in several sentences allow you to present the proposals of these laws. First of all, one that actually binds these other two laws, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the exemption from the payment of part of the costs of health care and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act, and this is about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, with the Final Proposal. In the introduction, I would say that after this morning's debate, it is therefore another important segment of the Government of Croatia programme aimed at strengthening the social position of a group of socialists. So this is a well-known government programme, which is here within the time limit within which the government has promised to implement it on the basis of this proposal. With the bill itself, there are several basic issues that we are working on or we are proposing to edit in fact. It's about changing pension coordination. Therefore, it is proposed to align pensions with the rate of growth of the average salary of all employees, of course twice a year, compared to the previous half-year. It is proposed that the pension allowance known as 6% plus 100,00 kuna under the special law to be paid, integrated into retirement and become an integral part of it. A change in the composition of the Governing Council of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is proposed in order to ensure that more members proposed by insurance companies, pensioners and employers are provided and that the criteria for the payment of pensions are newed... In the application of the current regimes, some weaknesses of the legal solution have been observed in the case of the same situation of the persons to whom the law applies and in the case of the definition of the criteria to which these people exercise their rights. In this regard, I remind you that out of 70 and some of the requirements addressed under the now applicable law, only 16 persons have succeeded in achieving those rights by proving quite incorrect legal, legal criteria or the conditions governed by the law. In the light of the proposal for a law, it is also stated that the resources necessary for the implementation of this Act and in this respect, I must say, it is about significant resources and significant efforts to ensure that one of the very important segments concerning the existential and social situation of the particularly endangered categories in society, pensioners, that the correction of certain shortcomings in previous solutions concerned some solutions regarding the harmonisation of pensions, the determination of pensions, the compensation of certain shortcomings in past periods. With regard to this change, which is proposed, of course, could happen if we did not follow these proposals with the law package to show the solutions set out in this law in a way counterproductive to those who would exercise rights under this Act when it comes to income tax and when it comes to health care costs or to health care costs. In addition to this proposal, there are two proposals for a law that I initially said that the effects proposed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act would not be affected by the particular group that wishes to be covered by this Act. So we propose that in a united debate, of course we will listen with caution to your proposals and opinions and we propose on behalf of the Government that you accept all three draft laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6849	Thank you. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? Your Honor, the committee? Okay? The Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6850	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. In view of the seriousness of the subject, I consider it necessary to state the position of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget in particular in the section relating to the Income Tax Act only with, at the end of the note on the vote of the other laws which were here. You got the written conclusion but let the public and the number interested in reading the overall conclusion here. Report by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget on the Income Tax Act and the Final Proposal for an Emergency Procedure Act. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 3rd session held on 2 March 2004. Proposal for a income tax law with a final draft law submitted to the Croatian Parliament's president by the government of the Republic of Croatia since 25 February 2004. The financial and state budget of the Croatian Parliament shall be based on its competence as set out in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending the income tax law with the Final Proposal of the Law as a home working body. Introductory representatives of the motionors, as we have heard before, pointed out that this bill proposes an increase in the personal deduction of the pensioner from 2550 to 3000 kuna. The above-mentioned increase will neutralise the effect of taxing increased pensions for income of 100 kuna plus 6% as we heard here as they increase and enter the base. Which is the intensity of the envisaged changes and that peace code. Since the application of the law of 1 April 2004 is proposed, a reduction in tax revenues from that base is expected for 2004 amounting to around 45 million kuna, as at the level of the year about 60 million kuna is estimated at some estimate. The Committee supported the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament adopted the law in question by an urgent procedure, but there were also some opinions that I would like to point out that the motion for this Act in the Committee debate has been delivered, we say, by adopting this Act, that the amount of net pension will be minimally increased for pensioners. These were some of the discussions, but there was still no opinion expressed and the Committee unanimously accepted the proposal of this Law. I'm just using this opportunity to say in the end that most votes are, and you have a written proposal to accept the other two laws relating to the Peace Law and the other to health insurance and reduction of participation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6851	I'd like to thank the honourable representative of Shimi Prutniki. Anyone else from the board? There's a club debate coming up. On behalf of the IDS Club, the word is a respected representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6852	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. There is one thing to be afraid of when it comes to this pension, generally social security of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Peace spending if I'm not mistaken for this year amounts to or exceeds 23 billion kuna plus 2 billion kuna for defenders. So salaries plus social expenditure plus health care in the Republic of Croatia's budget for this year are participating by more than 70%. So what should be feared in this context? According to our Court of Justice at the IDS Club, above all an external debt that in 4 years' time with these last year's $23.5 billion will surely reach a $40 billion figure or every resident of these premises will be in charge of about $10,000 means for those 4 years. This problem, in our opinion, could pose a major threat to social security. We will probably all agree together that Croatian trends are alarming as a result. First income, if we look at the increase in production, they grew over the last ten years at 3.2%, and the debts grew at an annual rate of as much as 25%. So one word we spent far more than we made, and what might be worse is we owed ourselves to spend, to pay off our debts, not to invest in encouraging the economy and so on. Sooner or later at the IDS Club, we are afraid that this country will pay for it, and the first on strike could once again be those who are the weakest to say social categories, perhaps it will again be pensioners like it was in 1994 when the “de facto” their pension was stopped in relation to growth at the time of average salaries. Then, in 1994, it was justified by the aggression against the Republic of Croatia. We played a little bit in Bosnia, too. Then not only because of the conversion but also because of the war, because of the fact that Croatia lost the ex Yugoslavia market, the former Soviet Union, the eastern bloc and so on hundreds of thousands of people were actually forced to retire which at the time “de facto” lost character, I would say compensation for past work and at that time became a social category. Fortunately, after the decision of the Constitutional Court in 98 C.E., something improved in the country. A small pension law and what we called it in this House, which introduced the practice of repaying debt through these famous 100 kuna plus 6%. That principle has certainly existed, we all know that since 3 January 2000. How pensions were harmonized. In 94, the average pension in this country was slightly above the 80 marks. And now let me not count by year 2003 on day 31. The 12th was 1721 kuna, and today after harmonisation it is 1764 kuna. Right, they mean pensions didn't follow salary growth, but what exactly does this law bring? First, there was a lot of talk in the public that pensions should be coordinated with the growth of gross social product. Suddenly from that principle, the devil has given up. Now that it has been realised that the growth of gross social product for 2004 will not be 5% of what it was from 2000 to today or more than 5%, but that it will actually be 3.2% this year, we are now somehow returning to "the old model". So far, coordination, as we know, has been done by comparing the cost of living on the one hand and the growth of average gross wages on the other. Now we're only committed to the average salary, and that's fine. Clearly, that's fine if it's more convenient for the pensioners. However, evil should not be the case, the IDS Club would still be for the principle of still the average gross salary, the average Life Cost Index as an alternative solution if it is more favourable for millions and 20,000 pensioners. So we suggest that, in that context, the article be voted upon. I said evil shouldn't, because you never know what would be more favourable for that category of socially endangered citizens of the Republic of Croatia. As we now see that we have given up on harmonising pensions with gross social products, it has given up after HDZ realized with its coalition partners that it cannot achieve the current growth of the gross social product, so it may soon give up the offered equation. Secondly, the Law amending the Income Tax Act i.e. increasing personal income to pensioners and this inclusion in the tax base, from 2550 kuna to 3000 kuna. The latest correction to increase the basic tax deduction for pensioners, i.e. for workers, was made 1.1. In 2003, in a way that for workers it increased from 1250 kuna to 1500, and for pensioners from 2500 to 2550 kuna or 2%. Why was this correction necessary? Well, first of all, because of those who would have included in the base of these 100 kunas plus 6% de facto cut pensions. For example, those who would have received 2550 kuna without this correction in a city that was freed from the cut at the annual level if the correction had not lost 257 kuna, where the discount is 7% would have clearly lost more than 281 kuna, with 18% 319 kuna, etc. What will this correction lead to? First of all, the budget will be cut by 45 million kuna next year or this year. But for us at the IDS Club, it's absolutely not a primary concern. It is my primary point that in the end these 100 kuna plus 6% will mean for this category of 750 thousand pensioners, how much the right can achieve on today, although by the end of the year those who will be able to achieve it will be as many as 13 thousand and 200 less. But the point is how much of those 100 kuna plus 6% will cost a pension fund and how much should every pensioner get? At the annual level according to the most optimistic data that we have calculated at the IDS Club would be the number that would be divided into 750 thousand pensioners, meaning the amount of 41 million kuna or per pensioner 54.6 kuna, or if we divide it by 12 months, they could generate an additional income of 4 kuna and 55 June. Or on average, it means those 750 thousand pensioners with 100 kuna included plus 6% will receive larger pensions per month for 4.5 kuna. And according to the most optimistic scenario. IDS welcomes every increase, even if it is an amount of 1 June, not a kuna. But I said it was an optimistic variant. While it is mentioned in the reasoning of this law that pensioners will receive or should be provided for that category of 20 million kuna more than last year, it will say that practically monthly pension increases on this basis for 750 thousand pensioners as proposed by the legislator will amount to only 2.5 kuna. I repeat, 25, Kun. But we have two more problems with this problem. First of all, the biggest, and I didn't notice that it's too much to take care of in law, it concerns the weakest, i.e. the weakest. those who receive so-called A protective supplement. They're in the land of 115 thousand 973. The average monthly protective supplement is 338 kuna and 64 June. Involving those 100 kuna plus 6% should not cause these people to lose part of their pension, part of their income, it simply must not happen, means that it is saving on the weakest to give to those who are also weak. And secondly, by including 100 kuna plus 6%, which is undeniable no one can dispute, the apartment will increase the difference in the damages of pensioners who are retired after 30. Six. In 1998. I won't elaborate, I can, but it's undeniable. For IDS, it was never questioned to secure these 100 kuna plus these 6%. It is even less questionable for us to dispute the Constitutional Court's decision and to repay the debt to the pensioners. Finally, that is the main requirement of pensioners throughout the Republic of Croatia. So I'd dare say that since the de facto return, there won't be anything and that's not good. The average salary in the Republic of Croatia today is 3 thousand 998 kuna. The average net pension is 1751 kuna, i.e. it reaches 43.8% of the average salary. I fear that this will not be more important for the benefit of the pensioners, not particularly in the years to come in 2005, 2006. As long as my court doesn't care enough, it means in these weakest ones, in those 115 thousand 973 people who receive a protective supplement, for the first time, a partial concern has been made, first of all, about our colleagues who have worked part of their working life in other republics, and at this time if they have more than 55 years of absurdity to be complete, I can't get neither representation salary nor pension. These illogicalities absolutely need to be corrected. It is clear that the law cannot only be written for four or five of our colleagues, so here I see myself now taking the principle of working in the bodies of the SRH SFRJ. That's how we got to some hundreds of people. We were the last time we heard about the succession, for example, the example of Mr. Velebit, who played one of the crucial roles, I dare say, in Croatian diplomacy there somewhere in 1954 in London when, among other things, it was written so-called. The London Agreement, based on which the north-west part of Istria has been territorially integrated into the territorial corps of the Croatian people, i.e. the Slovenian people. This man has a pension of several hundred kunas or a thousand kunas, 2,000 kunas, and in fact, it is the order of domiciled diplomacy from the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and it is not just. There are many of them in my court and more than a hundred. However, with 20, 30, 40 thousand ordinary small people who spent some time working in Bosnia, Serbia, the one in Macedonia today live in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So, the one who worked in Slovenia and lives in Croatia today will profit but the one who worked in Bosnia and now lives in Croatia will certainly be significantly affected and kept in the IDS Club that this principle of federal officials should be passed on to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are concerned. It is clear that even under this conflict agreement that has been ratified before, for example, seven or eight days on that country, Croatia, or any Republic of ex Yugoslavia, is not required. However, the question arises that I do not now quote how fair it is. So Croatia can maintain existing practice under that contract and here, but I want to say that it is not fair. Finally, IDS will support this agreement clearly better and two and a half kunas more for 2004 based on these 100 kunas plus 6% than nothing but I repeat, perhaps the most honest linear increase in pensions for all. Maybe that would be the only solution for everything. All in all, you need to strive to grow pensions. That category of people was damaged in 1994, we can say all these years. Clearly, many others who had lost their jobs have been damaged. This category of people has created a material basis for the country, and that category of people needs to be kind of reprieved. But let me get back to the beginning. Everything will depend clearly on the country's material opportunities, everything will depend on the growth of gross social product. Unfortunately, it will not increase this year as previous years, and it is neither good for the pensioners nor for the country nor good for the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6853	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. The correcting of the incorrect allegations was reported by the respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6854	Mr. Vice President, an esteemed colleague has used the expression of an actress. If we're going to use the term that we played in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then I have to say the following. We did not really play anywhere, but someone played with us in a way that actually made an aggression against the entire Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia and we did not play here, but fought and fought. And if it hadn't been for that war, then it certainly wouldn't have been Croatia, and we're even more sure that it wouldn't have been Bosnia and Herzegovina. But someone else has been playing with other people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and these are Muslims. And if there were no support for that people, then there would be no survival for either that people or Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6855	I thank the esteemed representative Bagaric. Next to correct the incorrect quote by Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6856	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since counterpart Bagaric has already mentioned it, perhaps we shouldn't even be correcting it further. It is related to what has nothing to do with these three bill proposals we are talking about but counterpart Cain said they played in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would like to say, it is an incorrect allegation, perhaps a stylish figure, yes, but an incorrect allegation because the agreement between President Tudjman and Izetbegovic on joint defence against aggression was signed in Split. That's what the quote is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6857	Thank you. It is up to the correcting of the incorrect quote, the esteemed Mr. Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6858	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd like to correct the four incorrect allegations of Mr. Comrade Representative Damir Cain. The first incorrect quote on the retirement allowance was kept on account, please have Mr. Cain look at the government's explanation and take care of maximum pensions so that not all pensioners can get, so no one can get less than he has so far. Secondly, Mr. Cain prejudges that since the repayment of the debt there will be nothing that is simply not true, that is the next obligation. Furthermore, the mathematics by which Mr. Cain's increase in or increase in pensions is not correct, I will try to explain it in the final word. And the Croatian Retired Party's initiative to increase pensions is not a concern for fellow MPs because none of the colleagues has such a problem with working in the former bodies of the former state, but for people who were as a Croatian staff to be sent to work in the federal bodies of the former state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6859	Thank you. On behalf of the Proposer. Okay, it's said in correcting an incorrect quote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the Club of HSU, there is a word of Honorable Representative Josip Sudec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6860	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! I was retired until yesterday. I had two pensions, one that was taxed and one that wasn't taxed. When you asked me how much my pension was, I said it taxed. When you asked someone from politics then he said no Judge your entire pension benefits are pensions with a protective allowance. Where did that protective supplement come from? Well, he showed up because from 1990 to 1997 certain rights that had no coverage in the state budget were fabricated. Secondly, part of the company that was in the recovery was simply being written off and the pension funds were to be paid into the pension fund, they simply went away, they did not pay. There was a debt in the funds because pensions were reduced for the amount spent on these funds or on the disbursement of these funds, totalling 7 billion and 500 million kuna. The law on the transfer of state budget funds to pension and disability insurance provided the budget over the next four years. The law says they need to be shared, but the rule has come, we popularly call it the "Navharin Regulation" that has put a certain redistribution into pensions so that 100 kuna goes to everyone equally and 64 kuna is divided as 6%. The pension allowance was due to cease at the end of 2002. However, thanks to the government, the past government and the previous parliament, it was extended in 2003 and here we are considering today that these funds that have been taken are back into retirement ground. That'll mean a little shift. But the pensioners were taught to be happy with the kid. They've created a great social wealth, but they realize that there's not enough funding right now, that this will mean something to us who live to make it happen. Because the first alignment of pensions with salary growth, and we've always asked for pensions to be brought into line with salaries, with pay growth because they share fate, they're out of wages, always the pensioners share the fate of the workers. So, we've advocated it. And I think that's okay because if, if we stop at costing our lives then we're asking them to be the cost of living but a retirement family that's completely different than a consumer basket or a working family. We couldn't comply with the State Statistics Office's demands, so we say we accept but then we accept the alignment with wage growth. Those who have not experienced this debate today, which is somewhere around 150,000 pensioners, I have to say that the descendants, those who have the right to retire, are now going to get the part that is contained in those 100 kunas and 6%, and that is one satisfaction for future maternity pensions. The allowance will also be paid to those who have a pension with a protective allowance and those who have the highest retirement pensions, or averages if you remember we called them the Republic average, those who have achieved full-time employment and their pensions have been reduced. And thirdly, for the first time, here and the maximum pensions we give this supplement without any strain. I have to say that age is satisfied with this small shift, that 750 thousand pensioners in Croatia voted for various political options, 100 thousand pensioners voted for our option, so 650 voted for the other options in the Parliament. I'd like us to be unique to these people here, with a little bit of contentment and let it pass here in the Parliament one-class. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6861	I'd like to thank the Honorable Judge. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished resident Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6862	Respect, Mr. Vice President, distinguished members of the government. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed these 3 laws and somehow makes me happy to present this very casually and simply with pleasure. Why? Because the most endangered category or one of the endangered categories in our society is rising, these are our pensioners, raising pensions in a way that proposes the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act that is now in the final version. It's very simple, regardless of what we've already heard, that's a little, 100 kuna plus 6%, a little bit when it's a little bit to the one who has little, then it's a lot to him. So these changes go to 100 kuna plus 6%. By counting, synchronising pensions twice, twice a year. As I have already said, this law improves actually the material position, the social, social and social security of pensioners. However, the legislator made sure that this pension increase would not come somewhere under some other law, primarily the Income Tax Act. So there was intervention in that law. So, even more health care costs laws, so these two laws would be like technical insurance for this first thing. So the Income Act as you have seen for yourself that the untaxable part that has been so far has been applied since 1 January 2003, which has gone from 2.5 thousand to 2,550. With this proposal, this proposal goes to 3,000 so that this pension increase will not be taxed. Also mentioned the Law on the release of payment of part of health care costs is also amended. Because the Health Insurance Act releases insured persons. If the total income in the previous calendar year is shown per family member per month is not greater than 40% of the budget base, this is the income censorship. With these proposed changes, he moves from 40 to 45.59 for family members, or for insurance, pensioners, singles from 52 to 58.31%. So everything is visible here, clearly, with these changes I'm going to repeat one more time, improving the material position of the pensioners. The agreed consensus between the Croatian Democratic Community and the Croatian Party of Rights is getting old. Thirdly, and thirdly, it is my pleasure to express it, and thirdly, the pre-election promise of the party is realised, therefore, by the Croatian Democratic Community, and therefore all members of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this proposal from the Croatian government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6863	I thank the honourable representative Mark Turic. On behalf of the HSP Club, the word has a respected representative, Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6864	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. What to say about today's Croatian pensioners, their pension amount is not enough for even a mere survival. Namely, I will only take data on the payment of pensions zqa January this year, which shows that a million 14 thousand and 381 users of pensions go on average without these 100 kunas and 6% is 1596 kuna and 65 June. And for the survival of a four-member family, I mean the basic cost of living for that basket takes seven thousand kunas. And if we consider the following fact that over 320 thousand are unemployed, so the pensioners also support their children who can't get a job, so we're really clear that this amount that they've retired is not enough today for even a mere survival. And the truth of the matter should be said that we at the Croatian party club welcome finally to move forward and improve the situation. Although there is no way to talk here about any improvement in the material position as Mr Tulic spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club. This is no improvement in the material position. That's what the pensioners had and the only happy circumstances are that now these 100 kunas and 6% enter their retirement grounds, and they'll only feel it now during the first increase. Because this is not yet at this point any material increase in pensions. The other thing that matters is we expect to finally start and solve issues and debt and everything else. For pensioners, we know that the former government has promised to resolve the debt issue and everything else, not to say that it has won most of the voters and elections. She's the truth about what she's done a little bit, she hasn't done much. Little. The security may be slightly higher since the Croatian Party of Pensioners in the coalition with the Croatian Democratic Community. Which may mean that this issue will begin to be resolved. But we also have to be aware of the fact that at this point, if other pensioners are taken, it means a million and 50,000 pensioners, that the relationship between pensioners and employees is one to one. We know about debts from chance, so that's a big problem. But it's to hope that for that part they have to find the funds because the sad fact is when it's known that the age pension is 1780. So for the man who's done it for 40 years, it's actually a small amount. And we're pushing for that part to increase. Now I have to say something that happened to us a lot of retirement clubs or a large number of pensioners are votes and for Croatia the right party called us. In particular, we were called by pensioners who were citizens of the Republic of Croatia who needed to get a pension they were getting from Croatia now, for example, they should get it from Montenegro, Serbia, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. And there are over 20 and a few thousand of them, we ourselves have followed their position and they openly object to our colleagues from the Croatian Retirement Party. He says they made sure to solve the case of these 100, including Mr. Nahtigal, their members, who are in the narrow lead and have forgotten about us. So we were also in charge of having to say that we expected that there would be a part of the content in this law. Because we know that since July 1st, when Montenegro and Serbia are to be paid, they get one or no pensions, they wait a long time. So this is really sad to get rid of 100 people. Let's be realistic no one has ever been referred to the federal authorities, it's about members of both UDBE and other services that worked in federal bodies. I won't name anyone who worked. But we have that information. So by the way, I think it'd be a whole lot more justifiable to get rid of the problem of these 30,000 people who are in despair who don't even have kunas and can't come to Caritas because they officially have some kind of pension. And they don't have anything. So they have on paper, it's in that Jewish that God had no curses. They have nothing, and that's the part I'm saying in this chapter we're not looking forward to, and we expect the government to take a measure that these people can live normally. Speaking of this whole situation, I cannot mention on behalf of the club one part that we expect from the Government that many things in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office that have been wrong so far and have violated the rules to finally get in line. I will only mention the case of 5 thousand and 100 people of military pensions means that they do not have the status of a Croatian wartime military invalid. And 1002, they don't even have the status of Croatian defender. Who make their military pension as a Croatian military disabled. Namely, we're still 99. Juraj Njavro and General Gotovina Aj discovered by comparison of the databases and it is interesting that until today the problem has not been solved. What could have been done at that moment when that aproblem occurred. Because this fact, since neither the government nor the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has taken any action. Dr. Crescent. Juraj Njavro and I then denied the Croatian Pension Insurance Office the supply of these funds. The situation was also familiar with the government since 3 January 2000, Mr Pancic here. And interestingly, he said the same thing, that to this day the rhyme problem is not solved. You know why, it's a huge problem because of the facts. Because the average pension is about 5,000 kuna, and if you take 5,000 users, that's 25 million a month. Or at the level of the year it's 300 million kuna for the last four years it's a billion and 200 million kuna. And let's imagine how much that amount of money would come to repair the position of the rest of the pensioners. Because of the fact that if you take this data means a million users are the average pension of these 6% and 100 kunas is 1700. So it's about the monthly amount paid for these millions and 14 thousand pensioners. In fact, a billion and 200 million kunas add that part. You know what else happened, one illogicality happened military pensions were that they could increase in the system with salaries of active military personnel. The salaries of more active military personnel have not been increased but due to errors in the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in increasing other pensioners they have also increased these groups. And now we've come to these paradoxes that way basically the state and it's taken from the state budget for nearly two billion kunas back four five years damaged. So we ask the government to examine this part. And that retirement will be realized by this war to whom it belongs, and to whom it does not belong, that it may not come true. And that the question of the pensioners is finally being resolved, and I think that the Croatian party is the right in that only clear one that has said that is our programme commitment. The debt to the pensioners must be returned to one part of the bonds and the other part to the money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6865	I would like to thank the honourable representative, Peri Kovacevic. On behalf of the club HNSa PGSa the word has a respected representative Anton Kapraljevic. I have to warn you that the club debate has not been extended for 20 minutes, it says here seven and a half.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6866	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Me and my colleague, Capraljevic, we've been taking our time. Fifteen minutes for the club, seven and a half minutes for me is six. The HNS Club supports and I think it's a good thing that the government came with this package of laws in which they're going to try to fix or return part of the injustice against the pensioners. Especially since the issue of including these 100 kunas and 6% basically was our proposal. So it's about the same thinking. I also think it is good that the issue of increasing the income censorship as a condition for the release of a part of health costs also goes in favour of the poorest or those who make the least of their income, and also by increasing the untaxable part of our pension from 2.550,00 to 3.000,00 kuna, we agree. But today's phone calls warn me to propose and ask us not to create a false sense of great expectation of these changes to the law and call people and ask exactly that from next month's retirement will be 150,00 kuna to everyone. Certainly they will not and precisely ununderstandable, which by playing with different data and percentages so this basis so this censorship people do not understand the effect of these changes and it would be extremely fair, correct and useful to give a projection of the movement of average pensions after the start of applying these amended laws that are not applied from tomorrow but from 1.4 or 1.6 as proposed. However, as explained by the Income Tax Bill, I warn of the fact that the proposer himself calculated that by increasing the non-taxable part of the pension, the monthly income of the state budget will be lower by 5 million kuna, and since this law applies from 1.4 this year, the effect of less paid income tax in this calendar year would be 45 million kuna. Income tax is one of three common taxes in which the distribution is part except the state and unit of local and regional self-government, and this is a particular 25% income tax of the central state, and 75% are the revenues of municipalities, cities and counties, which means that this change in the laws of municipalities and cities and counties from 1 April to 31 December of this year will have 34 million kunas of lower income from income tax, and this is an example where the state generously gave up one tax, but not its part, mostly used by local and regional self-government. During any change in the non-taxable part of the salary or pension so far, the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government and increased the percentage share of local and regional self-government in order to compensate for what was lost by increasing the non-taxable part of the salary or pension. This time, the government has not proposed such a change, and I therefore warn that local and regional self-government will lose 34 million in this year's funding bill. Fortunately, on the agenda of this session is the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the financing of units of local self-government that we have submitted to the club HNS, PGS and colleagues from LIBRE, and it will be an opportunity to make that correction there and that there is no damage to local and regional self-government. And secondly, the amendment of the HNS Club to this bill is the shortest. If we increase the untaxable part of our pensions that we support, we suggest that the non-taxable part of the salary be increased from 1.500,00 to 22.00 kuna, which will result in net salary growth, the average salary would grow by 4%, the net effect of which is around 156.00 kuna per month, which could be extremely useful in increasing purchasing power, i.e. improving the standard of employed citizenship of the Republic of Croatia, and that the gross labour price, gross labour price, gross employer and lip cost remains the same. By accepting our proposal, the state budget would remain a billion and 750 million kuna, an accurate calculation. I remind you that our proposal is counter-proposal to reduce VAT where the state loses 3 billion. This is for the state budget and the users of the state budget a cheaper variant, and that is why and now we propose it again and I end up with the next one. Whenever there has been a change in the non-taxable part of the salary or pension in the first few months of income tax revenue, however, later months the difference has been compensated, as this mechanism in the category of elastic mechanisms or measures that part of employers from the gray or black zone and illegal payouts introduces into the white zone, i.e. employers more realistically report higher pay amounts and the state budget loss is thus reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6867	I thank you very much... Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6868	I thank my colleague, Lesar, who was immediately told by Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues. I thank my colleague, Lesar, who at first told us that as a club of HNS and PGS, we would support the adoption of these changes and these three packages of laws. I want to look back on some things that are gonna make us support it anyway. In the first case, because it is 750 thousand users who in these amendments and additions to the law, who are the most endangered group in this society, who will at least in a small way feel some improvement. We know that these calculations of what 100,00 kuna plus 6% will not be 150,00 kunas that they should feel on their pension, but whatever it is when it comes to any social programme we are in favour of that social programme being adopted and that is why we will vote anyway. However, there is one thing that has surprised us all here and has pleasantly surprised us, which I would like to point out, which is that the Government in the Administrative Council of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office has decided to reduce its participation from 7 members to 4. This is probably the first time that someone has given up some of their rights and I support it in any case and therefore four members will go on a proposal from the Minister in charge of Pension Insurance, three members on a proposal from the Association of Insurance, three members on a proposal from the Association of Pensioners and three members on a proposal from the Association of Employers. That's what we welcome anyway, with the number one number that's been before, and that's thirteen. It means that, knowingly and generally, the government has agreed to reduce their stake in the Governing Council. We also support this law for a simple reason because these 100 people who were like so-called. The Croatian stand, which so far did not have the right to gain their rights, but just as the HSP asked the question, the question of those 20 and 30 thousand citizens in the Republic of Croatia who also had some similar benefits that they would need to come out of what they were doing in the other Republic, and they are not covered by this, and we hope that they will also be covered soon. And as for the law directly related to that, it means, by increasing, by raising the base, that's the Law on the exemption from paying for part of the costs of health care. It automatically stems from an increase in this base, so I don't think we have anything to discuss. And for the sake of everything said, the Croatian People's Party will, in any case, be the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the PGS for this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6869	I thank the respected representative Kapaljevic for correcting the incorrect allegations. The word has Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6870	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Mr. Honorable Representative Lesar, that so far the Government has always compensated for the amendments to the laws of the units of local self-government, i.e. cities and municipalities. We remember that the last increase from an untaxable base has hit our budgets quite badly without saying uncontrollably turning profits into investments that have taken hold. For example, in the 12th month, at least in the municipality of St. Sunday, it took us 3 to 4 million kunas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6871	Thank you. On behalf of the Club LIBRE, Honorable Representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6872	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, from the Government, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, on behalf of the Club LIBRE, I would like to say that we support the amendment of the Pension Insurance Act because it is a very logical decision. After the practice of paying it off, but by the way, not in legal, legal regulations, we think it's logical. This creates one stability or security in the incomes of Croatian pensioners, and I think, of course, it is fair, given what has been happening with Croatian pensioners' incomes for the past ten years. But of course, two things to say before we start, I start talking about these other laws, and that's where we actually came from and why it started. The eastern sin of the pensioner's problem is actually a huge increase in young pensioners in the late 1990s. It was the way unemployment was covered up and the number of pensioners grew, while the number of pensioners fell. In our system of intergenerational solidarity and it is very difficult to make up for any measures, especially at the time. In recent years, when a gross national product actually falls, it stagnates. And of course, the second reason why the eastern sin of this problem is that for many years we haven't had a growth of the economy, and of course the best solution to every issue that has a social connotation, this could thus be marked because solidarity is, of course, the economic development of the country. This should, therefore, be welcomed and, of course, should be said that in such a way one good part of the problem of dissatisfaction and the injustices that have been done to Croatian pensioners is corrected. Because this is not only their stability, their income, but the harmonisation that is now, given the growth of wages, is expected to grow faster, of course. The current provision is now harmonising pensions towards medium-sized wage and cost of life. We hope that always the growth of wages, only wages will be more favourable for Croatian pensioners. Therefore, this measure is in that sense positive for them. If it were to happen by chance, which would actually mean that the state will find a recession, that the cost of living rises faster than wages, then of course that provision will have to change, but it is expected that this will not happen and that this provision is much more favourable for the pensioners. And that, therefore, is something that on behalf of the Club LIBRE I warmly welcome and use the opportunity to thank the Croatian pensioners for the good part of the material burden they suffered in the 1990s, very patiently and with great ones, so it seemed outwardly, understanding political. Given the state in which the state of the 1990s was materialized for war and other reasons. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is the support of the Libre of these projects that ends. Libra doesn't support the other two laws, and here's the reason for that. This, of course, is primarily a great burden on the state budget that the state will suffer from the exemption from income tax. The word here is that it's about 60 million kuna a year, but I've calculated it and I think it's a figure, it's not a correct number. Because this is how all those who are over three thousand kunas of income are released. Of course, both those who enter this relationship between 2 and 553, but all those above 3 and those are about 190 thousand. And that's some of them who have over 3,000 incomes, and a half-foot of 0.25. And that amount is more than 60 million kuna. This loss of the state budget, conditionalally saying loss, is more than 60 million kuna, if the number of pensioners is 190 thousand approximately multiplied by the tax factor 15% plus 500 income, 500 kuna as much as that, plus 12 months, is 171 million kuna. It's big money and that's the fundamental reason why we can't be for this proposal. Of course, when this decision was made that we support, it was necessary to find some way for no one to stay with the smaller revenues, even if the actual alignment would make up for it very quickly. Probably already in the next compensation, but in this way there has been a huge increase in income and unfortunately for those pensioners who have incomes above 3 or 3 thousand kuna, respectively. Retired people with incomes less than a thousand and 300 kunas of this have nothing. They won't get their pensions, but they don't have any of this. They are under the shears that have already been placed, and to them this Law means nothing. That law means nothing to them. To them, this Law does not mean a kuna of profit, as it means nothing to them to free them from participation, or to pay for an additional part of the tax insurance for health care because they have already been released. And the number of pensioners who have less than a thousand 300 or 350 thousand kuna, not thousands of kuna, of course, but kuna, is almost half of our pensioners. Because if the average is 40% compared to the salary, then the average pension, so the rough calculation somewhere around 1600, in this category below 1300, is unfortunately the largest number of Croatian pensioners and those of this proposal do not have any increase, and that is exactly what they would need. Therefore, this proposal, in addition to what is important, affects the revenues of the state budget and then the revenues of the local self-government in this area in which Mr Lesar spoke, but in a larger amount than the proposer says, is why we cannot accept this proposal when it has already gone to the tax on income, then it should have been done so that no one gets any less salary due to this previous law, not pay but pensions, forgive me, this law repeats increasing pensions to those who have pensions above 3000 kuna the most and those below 1300 kuna do not at all, it is not fair, it is not good and this is an additional reason why Club LIBRE cannot be for this proposal. We are also against the participation of health care, or the rise of this census, for the same reasons. Because it is, of course, a re-attack or damage to the state budget, and even if the applicant I do not know how it says that the implementation of this Law in the discharge from paying part of the cost of health care does not require costs in the state budget that is not possible. This Act, as well as any other law which frees a person, requires additional costs in the state budget, i.e. in the budget of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance if we want to preserve the same quality of health services and, of course, it is not a proper preparation by the applicants, the applicant should be more precisely accounted for than it is in a series of these laws, but it will certainly lead to a reduction in the costs or income of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, which will then have to be compensated either from the state budget, or by reducing the quality of health services which will again touch all others, including natural and pensioners. For these reasons, Club LIBRE cannot be for these two laws, but I repeat that we consider it a very good, smart and fair decision to change the law, on pension insurance in a way that 100 kuna plus 6% is included in retirement as its permanent and legally regulated amount. So how difficult this package of the Law is not spoken of, often times in the Assembly do not talk about amounts that are hundreds of millions of kunas as if that money were falling from the sky and as if that money were not to be taken. According to what's mentioned here, including the correction I've made, this bill weighs about half a billion kuna somewhere. It's big money. You have to take that money from somewhere. Will you take it from some other social functions of the state, will you take it by reducing the budgets of the Ministry of Education, Science or some third way is absolutely irrelevant to the fact that this money must come from somewhere. And that's, of course, an additional argument why Club Libre can't be for these laws. Calculating the revenues of the state budget that will be directed towards the social sphere based on the law that we have considered earlier and which are heavy 400 million kunas and these 500 million kunas, it is about close to billions of revenue from the budget that we could go through with this amendment to increase the revenues of the Ministry of Education and Science, in the promotion of entrepreneurship, in the development, the continuation of the modernisation of the Croatian railway industry in Croatia, because unfortunately in conditions where we have a dominant import-oriented economy, the economy, all that money or its largest part will go towards import products, import goods of wider consumption and there will be no growth of the national economy and that is the worst result of such drastic growth of personal consumption. This will be paid by increased borrowing, and instead we could have had the courage to invest that money in these segments I was talking about, to gain the growth of gross national product and to create long-term prospects for the development of the economic potential of this country and therefore I cannot but show the dissatisfaction of the Club of Libre because of these two laws, therefore by the Law on income tax, and of course the Law on the exemption from paying part of the health care costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6873	I would like to thank the honourable representative, Joza Radosh, and I would like to inform you that Article 207(1) is in line with Article 207(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. It is the SDP's Club of Representatives, respected representative Zeljka Antunovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6874	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We have in front of us a set of laws that change to improve the territorial position of pensioners. I think that's the assessment that we're all going to agree on and that's why it seems crucial to me in the right way to respond, and in the right way to analyse and valorize the amendments to this law precisely in favour of the aforementioned objective. Unfortunately, it seems to me, and we at the SDP Club on this point agree that the effects of changing these three laws are so minimal that we have begun to seriously wonder what are the real reasons for these changes. But regardless of the real reasons, in any case, the well-being of the pensioners in these laws, i.e. their amendments and additions, is yet to be indicated, at the same time with this pay phone and with the press conference they send messages that we can at the very least consider to be a final solution to their poor material status. However, regardless of possible differences in thinking about the achievements of these proposals, the definitive fact remains that the material status of pensioners will not significantly change these laws and in individual cases will be changed but will not be so changed that they will be able to talk about any benefits. The real truth, unfortunately, is different. It can be read without any difficulty from all these laws, especially from the reasonings of these laws. So let me try to expose or in a true way present a few of the key measures in these three laws. The first measure, which is actually one of the key measures that makes all of this happen, is the measure of harmonising pensions with wage growth. It will provide every pensioner, the truth God only theoretically, about 7 kuna on average according to the average pensioner, 7 kuna per month but on one very important condition, provided that wages continue to grow as they grew in the previous year and in the previous four years, respectively. Otherwise, nothing will happen, no matter how much inflation there will be, no matter how much the cost of life increases if the wages don't continue to grow, then neither will the proposed amendments to the laws increase nor the pensions. Fortunately, it won't even fall if they keep falling wages because there's an insurance instrument in the law compared to that, but one very risky measure. We've tried different systems of coordination, so it's already been consistent with wage growth, so all the pensioners will remember what happened in the 1990s when the wages began to stagnate and even fall, and prices began to rage for different reasons. One was a war, and the other was a disastrous economic policy that was being fought at the time. The destruction of the economy due to catastrophic privatisation, and then the pensioners asked for a harmonisation of wage growth with cost measures, with a rise in cost of life. Exactly the opposite of what they're looking for today. It is clear to me that after prices have been stopped, after prices can also be talked about, after inflation has been reduced to about 2%, after the wages are constantly growing for 4 years but growing, that pensioners are seeking compliance with this. Which is why we will support this measure. However, I warn all those who are politically advocated and who, in some ways, are trading politically with the parliamentary majority, advocate the pensioners so that the opposite can happen. That wages can begin to fall or that wages can stagnate and that the pensioners will then be left to any possible increase. The second measure concerns the inclusion of a 100 kuna supplement and 6% pension base. The measure will provide an average Croatian pensioner with about a monthly amount of two and a half kuna. That's what the law says, and I have no reason to doubt that it's really going to be so minimal and miserable. What is crucial when it comes to the interest of the pensioners and that supplement is something that has already happened, which is that the 100 kuna supplement and 6% increase is included as a permanent supplement means a life-long supplement for all those pensioners who were stolen in the 1990s, which is why they know it better than we do here. The following amendments to the law appear to be happening right now because of these two previously mentioned measures, i.e. measures to include an additive in the tax base. The Income Tax Act changes and increases the untaxable amount for pensioners, and this will result only in the largest number of cases as we have heard from some previous elaborates, only neutralising the negative effects of the previous measure because what the pensioners have by administrative means is included in their base and thus puts themselves in a situation where this Law does not change that they would actually be subject to an alleged increase in wages, pensions that they receive by hand. That is why this amendment is going, and so it says in the light of the law, because of the neutralisation of the negative effects of the previous, previous measures. However, this change in the untaxed part of the base will have, as my colleague Radoš had elaborated earlier on, some positive effects but on those pensioners who have larger pensions. Those who have pensions greater than average or average pensions, and for all those who have below the average pension of the positive impact of this measure will not be at all. We keep it socially unfair, but since no one is going to be reducing their pensions, it's acceptable for us and we won't vote against it. But again, I note the increase for those who need the increase most because of these changes are gone. The same thing can be said for the next measure relating to the amendments to the law on the exemption from the payment of the participation for health care which, like this previous one, suggests that pensioners do not actually lose what they already had, which is 100 kuna and 6% of the allowance introduced as a permanent supplement that could bring them into the position of those who are now no longer entering that category which has been released from participation by censorship rather than entering the higher category. All in all a lot of trouble, a lot of changing the law, a lot of costs I'd say about it both administrative and enforcement, but the effects almost nothing. We all know that our pensioners have low pensions, that the average pension is very low, that the largest number of pensioners is below the average pension, and that the only real measure is to raise the level of pensions or increase in pensions that pensioners really expect. Unfortunately, however, the pensioners must know, and not after these amendments to the law, of this increase, no sign of a voice. I'd like to look back at another, one of the changes mentioned here. This is an increase in the rate of release from participation and an increase in the non-taxable part of income that applies only to pensioners. It seems to me that when we talk about social justice, and this is behind these laws that it is not fair to forget that we in Croatia have a lot of employees, a lot of workers who live very hard with very small salaries and whom these privileges that belong to our pensioners do not apply. I think that if we really want to help those who need help, then we should think about equating the censorship or equating the non-taxable part of income for everyone. And for the workers. Because workers are usually younger people who support children, often support their older parents, as well as those who have, who are retired and who receive small pensions. This is one of the possible proposals that is not easy to elaborate and define from the sleeves, but if in this way tries to intervene in favour of social justice, I think this proposal deserves a serious, serious debate. In relation to the specific consequences of this Law, I must seriously warn on behalf of the SDP Club of another fact. For all of this, according to the law, it is necessary to provide approximately 112 million kuna a year. That's what the law says. Here they are not included those losses that will occur due to an increase in the non-taxable income. We have warned from the SDP when we talked about the Budget and on some other occasions, and we will say this when adopting the amendments to the budget that neither the existing laws nor the existing level of harmonisation of pensions are provided in the budget. These bill proposals say that's the case. However, that is not accurate information. About 900 million kunas will be missing from pension payments for the whole year. We'll try to amend it if the government accepts. And these additional 112 million kunas are certainly not secured in the state budget. And that is why I can conclude in the end with the answer to that question. Which are actually the real reasons for changing these laws. It seems to me that this is a rather cheap trade, which the ruling majority is trying to secure most of this House for a while. However, there are others who, with full understanding and concern, follow the life of our pensioners. There are those who have not only talked about it in previous periods, but every year provided 2.5 billion additional funds to repay the debt, 1.5 billion additional funds per year for a regular and permanent payment of an allowance of 100 kuna plus 6%. There are all those who are not afraid to talk openly about pensioners' problems, their hard lives, and the real circumstances in which we live. And that's why we won't let anyone deceive them. We're going to vote for these because we can't ignore 10 kuna increases. However, we cannot even accept the sale of the illusion that a better life will happen for the pensioners or an increase in their pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6875	I thank the respected representative, Zeljko Antunovic. The correcting of the incorrect allegations was reported by the distinguished representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6876	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague, where she says she's trading with the pensioners. I am correcting this because the Croatian Democratic Community Club and the Croatian Government do not trade with pensioners in our pre-election programme as well as in the Croatian Government programme that adopted this House of Higher House is a better position for pensioners. And that is why a deal is possible with the Croatian Pensions Party, not trade. It's a correction to an incorrect quote. and in these three laws, what is now possible in Croatia with this budget, not cheap trade and illusion, as the colleague says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6877	Thank you. Next to correct the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6878	I am correcting three incorrect allegations by my colleague Antunovic. Namely, counterpart Antunovic prejudges that since future increases after these changes of law there is nothing, which is simply not true. A colleague wrongly and unfoundedly interprets the difference and relationship in the tax base of wages and pensions, which has its historical justification. And unfounded statements about political trade and the sale of illusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6879	I thank the esteemed representative of Hrelja. For, on behalf of the HSLS Club, DC, the word has been given by the Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6880	Thank you very much, fellow vice president, colleague and colleague. I will, of course, support this package of laws, and express my satisfaction with the support of the opposition parties, which should probably say that it is quality laws, and I will try to avoid these political qualifications that are really too much when it comes to the standard of citizens, because what citizens who listen and watch this debate are most interested in, and that is what these laws will bring to them in those bags that they receive at the beginning or mid-month and what they will do in their standard. We have specifically discussed amendments to the Pension Insurance Act as a fundamental social policy system that includes legal norms, financial, administrative institutions that regulate the risks of age, disability and death. and draw particular attention to the expressed trend of ageing and increasing the share of older people in the country's total population and the particular importance of contributing to any change in the system and pension insurance that to the total social costs, it is indeed necessary to say countries participate in over 50% of the amount. Interestingly, at the end of last year more than a million and 54 pensioners were recorded in the Republic of Croatia, namely a million and 54 thousand 549 pensioners, 56% of whom are old-age pensioners. I'm sure it would be interesting to hear who those 44% pensioners are, what pensions they're dealing with, and certainly would be an interesting piece of information when these retirements occurred. Because there are theories by which some are retired for a certain period of reward and some for punishment. The average pension is constantly followed by about half the average monthly salary, for December of last year the December was kuna 1719 without tax, the cut along with the supplement. The Pension Insurance Act is a fundamental law that regulates the principles and activities of pension insurance, and any reform of the system. And with the applicable Law of 98, a proposal for reform and pension system has been included at the level of adjustment and adaptation to the real economic situation. One of the more significant measures to reduce pensions was the indexation of pensions. So we were reminded of the Swiss model of establishing the value of pensions. According to the mentioned and applicable law, for each half-year, the value of the pension is determined by the rate obtained as half the sum of the change in the average cost of living index in the preceding half-year and the average gross salary rate of all employees in the Republic of Croatia in the previous half-year compared to the half-year preceding it. This way of harmonisation necessarily led to a slower increase in the value of pensions compared to salaries and was warned by pensioners, not only in the pre-election time they should be recognised, but also during the past entire term, and also before, which one significant social group necessarily led to an unequal position compared to others and rarely in socially threatening status, and we really should all acknowledge that. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act seeks to correct that injustice in the long term, as it proposes to bring pensions in line with salaries. Of course, we can speculate now, be wise how much pay will grow, but this is certainly an honest attempt to make this coordination work. The current value of pensions will continue to be harmonised for each half-year compared to the previous one, but by harmonising only with the rate of growth of the average salary of all employees and, therefore, I find it terribly important to hear what the representatives of the pensioners in the Assembly say about it, because I think that their opinion is just the most important, and they have given support to these draft laws. The application of this provision prevents the decline of the share of average pensions in average salaries and allows for a greater real growth of pensions according to the data we have, which should also mean an increase in pensioner standards. The government debt to pension funds from 90 to 98 was resolved through the Law on the transfer of State budget funds to pension and disability funds, so that pensioners who were beneficiaries of the pension during the formation of the debt are reimbursed dues in the form of a pension allowance of 100 kuna plus 6% of the pension amount for June 98, from July 98 to 31 December 2003. This Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act proposes a continuation of the payment of the allowance, so that it is included in the pension in a way that fears the amount of pension paid to the user for March 2004, it may indeed be necessary to repeat that information because the pensioners will certainly count on their pensions to be more pedantic. And so that supplement becomes an integral part of the pension. What interests pensioners most when they will feel these first effects and when they can expect the first increase of their civic standard. The effects of harmonising the value of the pension according to salaries and the inclusion of allowances in the component of the pension will be visible after July of this year and the first alignment. These measures should also improve the material and social conditions of the pensioners in the long term, and I am convinced that their representatives in the Assembly will closely monitor how these laws will be implemented because this is also their obligation and part of the contracts they have signed. On the third point, I would like to say that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to this Act specifically on pension insurance has proposed to amend the composition of the Governing Council of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in a way that reduces the number of members appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This may seem irrelevant to many, however, if the number of those proposed by the Government is reduced and the number of members proposed by insurance, pensioners and employers is increased, then it is more logical and one fairer and perhaps more acceptable to operate the system. That is why this proposal is in the spirit of democratisation and the achievement of the pension system as well as its approximation and respect for the needs of users. On the fourth point, I would like to say that I do not know how clearly this has been so far that this law proposes to take over the Croatian legislation to pay the pensions of the beneficiaries who made their pension through the work of the former federal authorities of the SFRY with permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, it is deleted from the applicable law the condition that the user of the pension had to be referred as so-called so-called pension. Our camera, which has left about 100 users with no income. The HSLS and DC Club therefore accepts all the proposed amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act in their belief that they directly contribute to the better material and social status of pensioners who have wrongly entered the circle of disadvantaged and poor citizens. And I remind you that we have witnessed that before each election were those local or state-run types always bowed down to some 100 kunas who were to obtain the votes of the pensioners. We really hope it's time behind us. However, we have one recommendation to the Government to carry out a thorough analysis of the consequences of the major pension reform since the beginning of 2002 when the transition from the current distribution to the new mandatory and voluntary pension insurance system was made on the basis of capitalised savings or as we called it three pillars. And we will indeed as the Club of Representatives of HSLS and DC in such laws closely monitor the views of the representatives of pensioners in the Assembly and actually consider their views to be the most competent in the adoption of such laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6881	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. On behalf of the HSS Club, the word has a distinguished representative, Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6882	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I will immediately say on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club that we will support the amendments and additions of the Pension Insurance Act, whose novelties relate to the alignment of pensions with the average salary rate of all employees in the Republic of Croatia in the previous half-year, to the change of the composition of the Governing Council of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the addition to the pension of 100 kuna plus 6%, which is integrated into retirement and becomes an integral part of it, and the takeover of the Croatian legislation of the payment of pensions by users who have made their pension in former federal bodies of the former SFRY and have a residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. When considering the bill, what will happen after its entry into force must also be seen. A little bit different from what's going on today. In future pensions will be aligned with wage growth, and that will be good as long as wages grow more than the cost of living. At the request of pensioners' associations, pensions began to harmonize with the rise in cost of life. Now the request is reversed and that's fine. When life costs rise again faster, we will re-change the law and it will be all right and the pensioners will continue to receive a slightly higher pension which proves and the explanation of the motionor in the section relating to the justification of the necessary funds. So it says that about 90 million kunas have increased the cost of contributing to additional insurance. If we keep in mind that there are over a million pensioners in Croatia and that 90 million people will be divided into them, then we conclude that on average one pensioner will receive 90 kuna or 7.50 kuna each year. A 100 kuna add-on plus 6% and so far it's paying off. But what does that mean? This means that still 72,000 pensioners will receive a pension below 500 kuna per month and their average pension is 359.24 kuna, according to the state of 31 August last year, of which 36,000 pensioners in the retirement category will receive an average pension of 379.35 kuna, 25 thousand pensioners in the disability pension category will receive an average pension of 319.33 kuna. Up to a thousand kuna pensions will be paid to 101 thousand pensioners whose average pension is 766,20 kuna. Three hundred thousand pensioners will receive a pension of up to one thousand and 500 kuna and an average pension of one thousand 313 kuna. So, and still, the pensioners will have miserable pensions, and by passing this law, we haven't solved the problem. But there is something that has so far not been heard except from the ranks of coalition parties that have formed the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the previous term, and that is what I quote now. "In the period from 1990 to 30.6.1998, the state budget did not provide sufficient resources, so it became a debt to the pension funds of that time." So we have recognition of the debt incurred in the 1990s to 1998s. And what it looked like was telling the data. From 1991 to 1999, the number of pensioners increased by 297 thousand 933 pensioners and exceeded the number of millions, so in 1999 there are millions and 17 thousand pensioners and the average pension was 35.51% of the average salary paid in the Republic of Croatia. From 1999 to 2002, the number of pensioners increased by 24,000 and the average pension in 2000 was 38.75%, 42.27% in 2002 and 43.79% of the average salary paid in the Republic of Croatia in August 2003. If an increase in pensions recorded since 1999 is still a long and long way to an average pension of 70% of the average salary of not so far back in 1988. Furthermore, we are not opposed to taking over into Croatian legislation the payment of pensions to pensioners who made their pensions by working in the former federal bodies of the former Yugoslavia and who have their residence on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. However, we oppose the abandonment of all other pensioners who have made their pension in the former republics. There are two categories. The first category is Croatian citizens who lived and worked in the territory of the former state until the 1990s. They have been exiled and are now on the territory of the Republic of Croatia but are receiving a pension from a country where they have obtained the right to retire. This pension is more than a miserable pension, so when they get an add-on, that pension is insufficient to survive. The second category is the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have always lived in the Republic of Croatia but for various reasons worked in neighbouring republics and there have exercised the right to a pension that is now being paid irregularly and the height can be called symbolic. That category, as I said, has always lived in the Republic of Croatia, paid her taxes and self-increasing, shared the fate of all citizens regardless of what they were. Now they are inequitable compared to these same citizens. I find it strange that the pensioners' associations did not have in mind these two categories of pensioners in their demands. Aren't they retired? The Croatian Peasant Party's Club has no objection to the change in the composition of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute Management Council. The board of directors runs the office. It is a shame that the Governing Council did not have overhalf the number of members from the pensioners' ranks at the time when the Institute had huge packages of shares and business stakes. If they had in mind that dividends provided them with pensions, not only for them but also for future pensioners, they certainly would not have allowed privatisation the way it happened. And according to the report of the state audit, which states that even 80% of the capital companies after privatisation failed, that there was a replacement of valuable shares to the unworthy, and that after the collapse of the company, capital was paid back to the Institute to the shareholders and the shares which, by the way, managed the capital companies and led to the collapse. If the pensioners had sat on that board, it would not have come to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6883	Thank you very much, colleague Lalic. It's time for the HSS Club, to be used by an even more respected representative, Zeljko Pecek. Here you go, fellow prisoner.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6884	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, representatives of the government. I will try not to be pathetic in my presentation but to try to be pragmatic. Equally not to be euphoric as for unknown reasons, the Europhoric representatives of the Croatian Pension Party are, because in fact, through this proposal, I do not see what the average Croatian pensioner gets through the amendment of the income law. If we know that the average Croatian property is slightly more than 1600 kuna, the 2550 kuna limit does not apply to them. However, what is also characteristic is that 50% of Croatian pensioners have pensions of around 1300 kuna, therefore they still need a lot of time to get closer to this category. What is completely reliable is that the Croatian budget is losing to these estimates of 60 million kunas, I do not believe that they are correct. Those losses are much higher. And if the state account loses 60 million kuna, it's not hard to calculate that the budget of cities and municipalities lose 50% of that and that's 30 million kuna. And here, in the light of that law, it doesn't say anything. What I would stand for, welcoming, of course, that 100 kuna enters into an increase in the base, to discuss the return of debt to the pensioners. We forget about 10 years ago when the pension fund was too rich with the money, same with the shares. However, during that period, these situations we are discussing have arisen. The other thing we should talk about here without being pathetic is how to get it back to those who don't have time as soon as possible. I believe that this is our obligation and the subject of amending the legislation should go exactly that way. Thirdly, I would like to continue with a good trend in amending income tax laws, I will remind you, and in last year we increased the base for pensioners and employees, we released the basis for those who invest research for development. We have freed those who professionally perfect themselves, as well as the salaries of the newly employed. I believe it's time again to think of the economics, the craftsmen, and increase their basic personal deductions. I'll remind you, he's here at the border of 1500 kuna. And that's exactly for those who fill the state budget, the base is twice what we're proposing right now. I think that fundamentally what HSS needs to be advocated and probably a party of pensioners how to repay the debt to the pensioners, the second question is that pensions have as much participation as possible in the average salary. Now, according to my assessment, that's about 41% of the average salary in Croatia. I guess we'd all have to make a plan together so that at least 50% of the average salary we can skip out on pensions. This way we certainly won't make it. That is why, finally, I stress that I do not expect the effects actually for the average pensioner in Croatia, because this does not apply to them. Especially for those who have small pensions, 50% of them have 1300 kunas. And I suggest that these losses of 60 million that are created in the state budget and 30 potential losses, millions in local budgets, to invest in the repayment of debt to pensioners, because it's a 10-year-old debt and to increase the base for that very debt recovery, so we will achieve what, at least I hope we all strive together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6885	Thank you very much, colleague Pacek. No more registered on behalf of the clubs. We're starting an individual discussion. The first individual debate was registered by colleague Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6886	Madam Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Already our representative on behalf of the club said that we would support these three laws but I would like to say, in a few minutes, a few sentences supported by certain figures to actually see what these three laws bring to the real pensioners. In fact, around these 3 laws, one climate is created that this will be one significant increase in pensions, i.e. that this is the beginning of a more significant solution to the material position of pensioners. It certainly is not true, it is only a continuation of what began in 2000 and 2001, pensions were then at some level about 1200 kuna, with a minimal settlement of pension debt to pensioners compared to those figures that were calculated we have now come to an average pension of 1720 kuna. And it should be said that a few months ago in pre-election and election campaign, we almost all said that we would sort out the rest of the debt in a certain way. It means that under this little law, so-called. The small pension law 100 kuna + 6% that was to be abolished last year is basically just one part of the debt repayment to the pensioners that we are, I don't even remember when that little so-called. A small pension law passed, I think, in 98 years. So, there's still something to be done. But what seems to be today in the budget that we're about to adopt tomorrow. In fact, already in the 2003 budget at the beginning, we provided too little funding for pensions. So by rebalancing and executing it with 21 billion 747 million it was increased and executed by 2003 by 22 billion 641 million kuna. Now, after the adoption of these laws and stories that in a different way, we will coordinate peaceful insurance in the budget that we are going to discuss tomorrow, we have received and amendments to the Government there is nothing changing about the pension and pension income item. Only 22 billion and 800 million kuna. The gap between the 2003 execution and the 2004 plan is insufficient for all of this because it amounts to only 158 million kunas. On the other hand, in the first article, there is a method of coordination. In the projection of macroeconomic indicators for 2004, we plan to slow down the growth of the social gross yield to slightly greater inflation than it was a year ago. This means that with a lower growth of social gross products. And with more inflation, wages can't have any more significant growth. It may prove that in this year the existing method of coordination may be more favourable to the pensioners, as it will take into account slightly greater inflation than it has ever been. As far as this Article 4 is concerned, what it will mean for pensioners when 100 kn and 6% enters the retirement base, then in 2004 it will be based on the reasoning given by the government to this effect on 750 thousand pensioners. And that therefore 20 million kuna is secured for 9 months so payment goes from 1.4. it will be exactly 26 kuna on average for these pensioners or 2 kunas and 95 limes. So I can say that there will be no increase in pensions. Indeed, in 2004, it cannot bring these average and low pensions into the tax category. So when we talk about these changes to income tax laws. Then surely he who receives 1700 kunas with this increase of several kunas will not come to the category of those who will pay taxes. In fact, the tax is paid now on pensions that amount to more than 2550 kuna. What's going to happen to this change of income tax laws? Now a tired man who paid taxes so he has more than 2550 kuna, and all those who have three thousand kunas will have less, in fact, not at all pay that 15% tax rate. Which is paid to receive up to 4000 500 kuna. What does that mean for a pensioner who is now receiving 3,000 kn and paying a tax on 450 kuna? He is now paying a tax of 67.% kuna in the future it will not pay so he will still feel a slightly greater increase in his net income. It seems to me that even in this third law, the explanation should be a little bit different. Namely, if it is correct to announce that it will no longer be in the healthcare system additional health insurance, then slightly higher censorships will be used for non-payment of participation instead of those pensioners who have been released with 50 kn monthly supplemental health insurance payments. That's what I'm going to do, as well as my club, to support the adoption of this law. but it should be said objectively that they actually mean one continuity in order to increase some pensions. But at least in 2004 they will not actually have an impact on pension growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6887	Thank you, dear colleague Zgrebec. He was reported to be a colleague of Davorko Vidovic. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. Next is Honored Representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6888	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed three laws regulate several important issues that directly affect the material position and social security of Croatian settlers. The proposed measures directly affect the improvement of their standard of living. Or the standard of about 750 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that part of the population whose material and social position is very difficult. Thus, the harmonisation of pensions with the rate of growth of the average salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia will cause future growth of pensions at the same rate as the salary. This corrects the present unfair approach by which pensions grew at half the rate compared to real wage growth. Also in the composition of the Governing Council of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the number of members proposed by pensioners is increased by insurance and employers. This ensures better communication, as well as the integrity of pensioners themselves, in the system that decides on them. Furthermore, the pension supplement 100 kn plus 6% is integrated into retirement and becomes a meeting part of the pension. This way pensions will be more for 720 thousand pensioners. Amendments to the Tax Act an obligor also allows for an increase in the amount of net pensions, for the additional 34 000 pensioners. So pensions will increase and it is not true that these changes will not affect the material position of the tired. It is evident from all of this that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is fulfilling the days of promises and guarantees concerning improving the living stand of Croatian citizens. In this case, we're tired. That the Government fulfils the obligations defined by the signed agreements and thus confirms its seriousness, determination and credibility. And the final laws are fair and feasible and I will therefore give them my support.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6889	Thank you, dear colleague Jandrokovic. And the next one came from Honorable Representative Drago Prgomet, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6890	Dear Madam Vice President, distinguished members of the government of fellow Members and colleagues. So it would really be illusory to close your eyes to the fact that a social group has formed a party that has become an important political factor today and also in this parliament because of its problems. To close your eyes to this and to the problems raised in our views of the party would indeed be political opportunistic. Especially when we talk to tired people and I don't think there's anyone here who has at least one member in his own family who doesn't have a pensioner, speaking means in a certain way to touch not only politically but every case and social and also the human dimension of this problem. In particular, I do not consider these laws to be laws which will solve the problems that pensioners have but also consider to be a good technical provision for the final adoption of debt-return laws to pensioners. And on that side, I call on the government to take this law seriously. And solve one problem that remained silent and government before 2000 and passed the government. So there cannot really be a situation no matter what it is, that the decisions of a particularly constitutional court that all must respect and clearly both the Government and the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia are ignored. The fact is that these laws will not bring enough to the pensioners themselves at the level of their pension but will nevertheless deprive certain resources from the state budget. More important, though, the government has shown a good will and understanding of this problem. On the other hand, the pensioners' party, or associations representing the pensioners today, showed seriousness, co-operation and understanding of the difficulties of the economic situation in which the Republic of Croatia was located. So I can't agree that this is about trade. It is not only the realisation of pre-election promises and other parties, so both relevant political options today in Croatia, but it is the realisation of principle programmes that form part of the Croatian Democratic Community programme, i.e. the Croatian Party of Retired People, and that there was will and opportunity, so not only earlier, we would probably not have this problem on the agenda today. I personally believe that wages will grow so that this choice of alignment of salary pensions will be a good choice and a good proposal that will not really change it. I also understand that the difference in this non-taxable part of pay, i.e. pensions, is greater than pay, because it would really be absurd for someone in this case to go through a double tax system and, of course, it is quite understandable that the adoption of the Law on the Liberation of Payments of Health Protection, i.e. participations in a certain way, would only neutralise the previous measures that could lead pensioners into a worse position than they were or rather said under that people's "to not happen on the bridge, lose at the pit". From all this clear that I will support this proposal and indeed say I consider it a good technical preparation for the final law on the repayment of the debt of pensioners who I believe will soon be on the benches of parliamentary deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6891	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative of the Shima Rifle.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6892	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here's today we've heard different grades about these three laws, especially so let's have a brief look at it. Each government shall, at the beginning of the year, establish a whole series of measures, particularly from social policy and social areas, along with all others who follow it. So I consider these three laws part of the social policy of the Croatian government and of this Parliament, certainly, and as we have heard different assessments about it, then, of course, there is once again to be reminded why I consider it and why it is necessary to accept these facts. It is certainly to point out in the beginning that even in agreement with the Croatian Party of Retirement, a consensus has been reached at least in this section to go with such proposals. In pensions and increases, the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act and the increase in the pension base have heard all the variations but I will remind you that this change improves the status of about 754 thousand pensioners in Croatia, regardless of the amount, but 754 thousand pensioners in Croatia. This will increase the base that will be in the future when pensions are increased at each stage of the basics and the basis for increasing and harmonising the salary increase in the Croatian state. For all those skeptics who do not think that wages will grow, there will also be measures that will also be coordinated if God does not give up and that happens. Of course, by changing the basics and increasing that non-taxable part, a part of the pensioner would come under the influence of the Health Insurance and Participation Act. It is therefore criminally binding and necessary to amend that part of the law relating to the good part and those categories of pensioners. And finally, by increasing this base of the non-taxable part of course in income tax among natural persons from 2.500,00 to 3.000,00 kuna, this change would include a large number of people and we consider, of course, the data from January 2004 and the earlier data from 754 thousand pensioners, as well as here at this point in time, this increase would cover around 144 thousand pensioners, which would make it difficult to estimate, but almost a million pensioners would in any way experience such a change. This change of the non-taxable part from 2.550,00 to 3.000,00 kuna would have an effect approximately to make a pension greater than 3.000,00 kuna about 115 thousand users according to official data, so that taxes and taxes would pay them about 35,000 users, i.e. pensioners less than so far, etc. So the effects of such a change these three laws would finally feel in a positive course already at this point, and especially later in the future I say somewhere around a million pensioners. I heard today from HSU that at this moment their pensioners, or junior pensioners, are about 75 years old. So I suggest that these three laws be passed so that even the juniors of these pensioners would not leave this world, therefore less stories, and more efficiency and finally by making changes to these laws, and I am very sorry, I suffer and listen these days, and even today a lot of words, demagogy. I am also sorry for this Parliament and the Croatian people to use this word here, but once it is used I would pray that those who decided on the fate of the Croatian state did not leave this hall because they did not believe in the Croatian state and that was their demagogy. And today when we say and the people say they want to do better and that they can better they don't believe it again and the days here talk about demagogy. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6893	On behalf of the club... What? Here's your replica. Madam Representative Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6894	I just want to say it like this. Isn't there or is there any greater demagogy when pensioners and the care of the pensioners and the repayment of debts are told precisely by those who robbed the same pensioners from 90 to 2000, although they did not admit to them until today that they had robbed them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6895	The answer to the replica of Mr. Pritchard.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6896	The burden of the creation of the Croatian state was borne by all those who wanted it, of course both the pensioners and a large part of the pensioners accepted that cross with the rest of the Croatian people and I believe that today we are trying to at times when there is no more war, when there is no more danger trying to bring them back and give them back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6897	Honored representative Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the Croatian Party of Retired Party Representatives Club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6898	Dear President, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues. My experience in working with pensioners is as valuable to me as any of your experiences are to you. I'll just give it to you right now, and you'll do whatever you want with it. First of all, I would like to tell you that the pensioners understand this problem well, that they know the possibilities of this country, that they are fair and that no one has the right to demean them, let alone intimidate them from this stage. We have well tested the agreement with then pretender for the Croatian government's mandate in retirement associations and we respect that priority now. [[Applause.]] What we are doing now, what the Croatian Parliament is now doing, these amendments and additions to these three laws are a small but quality step for Croatian legislation, but a big step for the retirement population. Why is that? We don't have a problem with a law here, but the return of faith that the rule of law will be respected, that the Constitutional Court's decision will be respected, it means a lot to our pensioners. Returning faith that there are forces that will respect their problems and correct injustice means even more. I agree with everyone who said this isn't about epochal changes in the law and tomorrow's well-being. It's a small, but positive shift, and I hope that's where we all agree. But you should tell each other. We've been chasing pears and apples all along, and it's time to separate them. The pension allowance of 100 kuna and 6% to the amendment and addition of these, these three laws, namely this one law, was not a pension and that is a notorous fact. And a pension increase can be counted with 100 kuna plus 6% plus accompanying effects and that's a fact. The other are total receipts so far and from now on. Furthermore, it costs a billion HRK 520 million and is reserved in the state budget. It should be said that this has so far been an addition to the pension on the basis of debt returns and that it has been created in time as a political patch in the pension system and that this is just the removal of that patch. The fact is that debt payments are now suspended, there is a bill to be passed on to pensioners and, most importantly, the calculation of individual accounts per pensioner and the solution to how much longer it is to pay, or how much debt is paid. In this year, the pensioners will receive two pension increases. First increase according to the old law in the first quarter of this year and second, under the new law, on the new basis in the third quarter of this year, and that should be made clear to the people. And the fact that the increase in pensions is consistent with the increase in wages is one positive discrimination against the pensioners because in the case of a fall in wages, as possible, but a fall in the value of the kuna we didn't talk about today, but it could endanger all of us. And first of all, those most endangered social categories. So we have a positive discrimination that if wages fall, pensions will not fall. And a significant change in pensions is expected from 1.1.2005 until when we should create the conditions here for pay to reach us, for the pension to reach 50, the average pension to reach 50% of the average salary and then there will be a real vote here on real salary increases. This year we are expected to reform the pension system in which we must resolve a lot of the injustices that the distinguished colleague, Mr Kovacevic, Ljubica Lalić, etc. spoke of here. And I think that's where we have to concentrate on all these injustices. And I end up, new social partnership relations are commendable for giving greater rights to social partners, but also greater responsibility for both the economy and the functioning of the state. I am pleased that most of the MPs in this House, in our Croatian Parliament, will support the proposals of these laws, and I hope that this will be the case with these goals that we have set ourselves to improve the status and dignity of our Croatian pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6899	Thank you. which was a united debate, so the applications walked from each other's sets, and it came to the conclusion that in the situation, MP Mršić found that his application would be lost. [[You don't understand.]] Here you go, colleague Mršić. Ten minutes of discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6900	I thank the President of the Parliament for the understanding and the opportunity to speak after all. First of all, I want to replicate to colleagues who have alluded in this Assembly that only one party has authentic rights and exclusive rights to speak on behalf of and represent the interests of an age group of Croatian citizens, and only because it bears in its name the name of that age group. And I speak on behalf of the pensioners, especially those who disagree with certain moves that give exclusive representation of the pensioners. Therefore, as an authentic representative of the pensioners, I would like to say that I fully support the adoption of these laws. I hope that the increase in the release in the payment of the participation is well calculated and that none of the pensioners will be in a position to still have to pay for the participation because these other laws work positively. If this were indeed to happen, it might be good for the transitional and final provisions to say that this is then individually affecting them individually and that indeed because they will get an increase in pensions and non-taxable parts, that it does not affect their payment of participation because it was possible that it was not possible to calculate exactly in each, each lip. So, I fully support the adoption of these laws because I know from almost daily talks with pensioners that it is important for pensioners each kuna, and especially if it is about ten, 30 or 67 kuna, as much as some will get an increase in their pensions. Of course, the increase in each non-taxable base affects increasing the income of those whose untaxable base is increasing. I therefore deeply hope that by Friday, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will come to the debate in this House and that we will also discuss the law of the CNS, the PGS concerning the untaxable part of those who work. Because they are equally and perhaps harder to live with their thousand 200, a thousand 300 or a thousand 700 kuna or 2,000 kuna, and they now fall and tax their income from the pensioners. I am pleased that, therefore, pensioners will get an increase, but I certainly think that we must urgently define that everyone should have an equal untaxable share of their income, regardless of the way they acquire it and that as soon as possible should have the same effect that those living from their work can get an increase in wages because the state will give up part of their income, or their taxes. What I want to specifically warn here is the negative impact of this Law that will reflect on units of local, regional and regional self-government. The data has already been reported here, so this year, somewhere over 30 million kuna, if the exact information that the proposing representatives of the Committee on Local Self-Government have said is to come to the budgets of the units of local, regional, regional self-government. The next year when it will be full years of application, it will be obvious somewhere over 40 million kuna. It's for units of local, regional, regional self-government big money, no matter what you think. I don't think it's a good practice for the Parliament to discuss laws in the current year and pass laws that will negatively affect the revenues of budgets that are not the state budget, and here it refers to units of local, regional, regional, regional self-government. I therefore propose that the proposaler accepts the obligation that this year, according to Minister Shuker, the Fund for Alignment will make 150 million kunas take the obligation to ensure that units of local self-government are satisfied with this lack of income resulting from an increase in the tax base. Because, on the one hand, the unit of local self-government that is in the area of special state care will achieve that income, i.e. on the basis of the state tax returns, will return the tax remunerated on their behalf, but other units of local self-government will not be able to achieve that income, so they will probably not be able to meet all the plans they have. I accept that there have been laws in the past that have negatively affected the incomes of local self-government units, but I think there is no reason not to stop once and not to say we as representatives in the Croatian Parliament who decide on the state budget, that we cannot have a negative impact on the budgets of cities, municipalities and counties by some decision. We here today, that is, when we will vote in this Law. We must remember then that these budgets have the same effect on the quality of life and pensioners in these units of local self-government, therefore, in municipalities, and cities where pensioners live. So, with this support from the laws, I ask the Proposer to certainly reconciling the possibility and certainly assume the obligation to address the units of local self-government the lack of tax revenue which will result in the basis of the adoption of these laws and also express my hope that, by the end of this session, we will also discuss the PGS HNS bill on increasing the non-taxable part, i.e. tax bases and workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6901	Thank you. In the final 5-minute debate on behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative, Davorko Vidovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6902	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, at the beginning of this debate, I want to say that the SDP Club will support the proposal to amend these three laws, but I also want to answer the question I hear these days by very well-intentioned people, who are asking me as former minister, so why aren't we, or why haven't you as minister done such good deeds for the pensioners as it seems now? I feel the need to say that 500 kuna pension increases in the last term, and raising from the average pension from 1200 to 1720 kuna, unfortunately, was not enough to say that in this country people have decent pensions that they can live on. An increase in pensions of 35% was insufficient for pensions to live decently especially that retirement mass that receives pensions below the average pension of 1720 kuna. But why, for example, didn't you put 100 kunas and 6% into a retirement base like that, here's a retirement organization looking for what the ruling set now accepts. Then I tell them we didn't do it for two reasons. The first reason that the inclusion of these 100 kunas and 6% basically would further dissipate the new 76,000 pensioners and lead them into a more unfavourable position, their pensions are already 30% lower than the old pensioners representing pensioners for the same internship and for the same salary. And another reason, because I was ashamed to propose a law under which pensioners would receive six kunas and 40 lips a month not until 1. It's the 7th, it's the 1st. Seven. Those 6 kunas and 45 limes dear pensioners is this chip-chips. It was a shame to suggest an increase in the law by one chip-chips. I was ashamed to suggest the equivalent of those two bottles of water. One bottle is given by the Croatian Party of Retirement by the other Croatian Democratic Union. The subscription is increasing on TV, and it's promised to abolish pensioners, no more of this one bottle, it's really an increase of 1.7 pensions. Speaking of other parts of the so-called a spectacular package. It is clear that there is not enough money in the budget or for the level of rights we had last year, there is no money Mr. Hrelja, the phonogram of your debate is written, will remain here and do not underestimate the retirement population. So don't think these people won't be able to add up at the end of the year as much as they've gotten from all those promises they're talking about. Those were the reasons why this bill wasn't included. Why didn't you put 100 of these Croatian citizens who worked in federal authorities into the Law, because although we now have a commitment to the succession of those 100 people come in a more factually favourable position than those 1,000 pensioners who have earned their pensions in Serbia, where they have paid their pension contributions and who are receiving pensions there as they have earned it. That was the reason, experts said you're violating the basic principle of pension insurance. I'm sorry. I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6903	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Florian Boras please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6904	Your Honor, Mr. President, the speaker used this pay phone, and that's exactly what some of them are telling me is an injured article in 209 to promote certain companies and products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6905	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6906	I am correcting Mr Davorko Vidovic, a dear colleague who says that the Croatian party of pensioners represents the old pensioners, it is simply not true. Secondly, I'm correcting the second incorrect quote for the first time I hear that he was ashamed to suggest it because I know well that the retirement associations were demanding that 100 kunas and 6% were placed in retirement and that as a minister in person. And second of all, I'm asking you not to impute things I didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6907	Correction of the incorrect allegation of the respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6908	I will also say that the incorrect quote is this spectacular law and that the laws have already been said three times only a slight shift, but if Mr. Minister had been spectacular as a minister and not as a representative today, we would be retired in a much better position.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6909	Does the Secretary of State want Mrs Vera Babic? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I am finalising the debate on the Final Proposals of the Law amending the Law on Income Tax, on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension Insurance and the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the exemption from payment of part of the cost of health care. Final bill amending the income tax law, emergency procedure, first and second reading. Pre-law number 48. The debate on the text is over. The amendments were submitted by the HNS Representatives' Club of the PGS. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. Here you go. [[Intruder: In order.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6911	The amendment of the representatives to, to increase the personal deduction from 1500 to 2000 kuna, the Government does not accept because large funds are needed, and this should be provided in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6912	Here you go, Comrade Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6913	I said, in the light of the amendment, that a billion and fifty would be only revenue in the budget would be lower than the counter-proposal of VAT cuts. So that's exactly a billion seven hundred fifty, but I'm asking for a normal vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u6914	The vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We have the same amendment under which the Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament undertakes to establish and issue the consolidated text of the Law within 15 days of the adoption of this Act That's acceptable, isn't it? [[Intruder: It is accepted.]] Thank you. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 100 votes, the Law amending the income tax law in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. We are now going to the next point - Final bill amending the Law on Railways, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 49. The legislator is the Government, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relationships and Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development Mr. Minister Bozidar Kalmeta indicated that the discussion was carried out by the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7046	Dear Mr President, honourable MPs and MPs, here is this proposal to replace the Law amending the Law on Railways with the Final Proposal of the Law as you know to pass by an urgent procedure before this House adopts the Budget of the Republic of Croatia for this year. This Law on Railways, as you know, was adopted by the Croatian Parliament last year so last year in 2003 by the structure of the railway system, the modes and conditions of rail transport, the status of railway infrastructure, the service of rail transport of special state interest for the Republic of Croatia and the regulation system in the operation of railway transport. The law was passed under the European Union's 2003 National Association Programme and this law is in line with the European Union directives in the area of railways. The proposal to amend and supplement this Railway Act proposes first to delete the provisions of Article 31(1) of point 2 which, as one of the sources of financing of the railway infrastructure, determines the compensation for oil derivatives. Article 32, which sets out the conditions, modes and bonds of payment of a fee on oil derivatives of EUR 0,60 per litre and amendments to Article 44, is therefore also proposed to amend Article 44, which provides for a postponement of the application of the law by one year, as the law provided for it to enter into force on 1 January 2005 and is proposed to extend it by one year and for 1 January 2006 respectively. Further to this Law on Railways, implementation was planned, I said before 2005 except for the provision in Article 32. revenue from the compensation on oil derivatives which were due to enter into force on 1 January 2004, and then by the government regulation for the reason that the last government had proposed temporary financing, so the government's regulation delayed the provision until 1 April 2004. And now what are the reasons why we propose amendments to this law. First, these 0,60 kunas or somewhere around a billion and 400 million will, therefore, stand out for the railway by amending this Act but will be allocated from the State budget, not as intended directly from the price of oil derivatives at the expense of the Croatian Railways, because otherwise a new source of funds should be found in the State budget. This should most likely be from or by increasing the price of oil derivatives or gasoline by about 0,30 lips. We simply this moment, we simply think this hour is not the time to increase the retail price of oil derivatives. That's the first reason. The second reason is that, by directly singleing out 0,60 kuna from the compensation for oil derivatives in the Croatian railway budget, those and Croatian railways should enter a consolidated state balance which would increase the state budget deficit by about 1.2 to 1.5%, which is simply impossible because this would have a negative impact on the final amount of the central state deficit. The third reason why this is delayed is that the application of this Act is delayed: although the planned funds in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 amounting to a billion 574 million kuna by 25% higher than those planned in the 2003 budget, which amounted to a billion and 240 million 937 thousand and so on, and 491 kuna does not provide investment that would bring the railway system to a certain level in order to make it possible to implement, apply the law by 1.1.2005, respectively, cannot achieve the objectives in the process of restructuring of the Croatian Railway so that the law can then be applied, and these objectives are high and these objectives are expensive. And I'm not saying that they don't need and that they're not good, but I'm saying that they're both high and expensive in the context of this year's State Budget and the possibility of this year's State Budget. These are improving technical, technological standards, modernising the network, increasing transport and so on. And for these reasons, we propose the decision of this Law on Railways for one year, or 1.1.2005, at 1.1.2006. And at the end of the fourth reason for me a year, it depends on how many years, we as a state clearly and last year and passed the government and now we're still providing about six billion kuna for highway construction. One year 5, the other 6 here somewhere, to build a highway. If this program were to be implemented this year, it would mean another 5 or 6 billion kunas to realize this program. Clearly for the running business of Croatian railways as easily as I said before, this moment is not possible. After all, we at home, uh, spend as much as we can, not as much as we should and not as much as we would like. If we add that, with the basis of the short-term loans last year, the HZ commitment went to the State Budget or to the Ministry of Finance for about a billion and a half kuna, I think you'll agree with me that one such investment, one such investment is not possible this year. I said before that, and with that I agree that it's good, that you should go into restructuring. Finally, the basis of development, one of the foundations of each country's development, is that its transport infrastructure is particularly in the context of the approximation of the European Union and so on and so forth, but simply the money has as much as it has and these are, these are the reasons. Yes, I must say that, in order not to be mistaken that even if they were the funds for wages in the Croatian Railways, funds for regular maintenance and for part of capital investments that rely mainly on Djakovic, Gredel and Končar that are, uh, insured. So no major disturbances will occur. Finally, with the amendment of this Act, I would like to send one unambiguous message, that, by amending this law and delaying its application for a year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not give up on the modernisation of Croatian railways, and that the modernisation of Croatian railways remains the strategic interest of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But it's delayed for a year for all those reasons I've mentioned before. Therefore, here I am, finally asking the MPs to respect the reasons for the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Railways and to make it clear to the Assembly in the proposed text, this is what I am calling for, in the proposed text of the urgent procedure and to bring it in. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7047	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take a word on this subject? They do. Rapporteur of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, Mr Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7048	On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, I report as chairman of the Committee that the Committee of 8 votes in favour of, 4 votes against, accepted this law to go into the procedure, supported it, and four votes had a separate opinion, which, as a parent committee, stressed that this was not a delay, but a definitive abandonment of the project not only of development, but even a minimum standard of maintenance and rehabilitation of infrastructure in the railway area, which has a significant impact on the macroeconomic stability of this country, significantly disrupts the economic readiness and competitiveness of Konačar, Gredelja and Đura Djakovic, asking four members of the board to have a special debate in the Croatian Assembly on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7049	I thank the chairman of the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7050	Dear Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of my colleague Cacic, the chairman of the Committee, that the Committee has concluded that this is a abandonment of the modernisation of the Croatian Railways, that is not true, the committee did not conclude, but that is Mr Cacic's opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7051	Thank you. From what I've heard, that was an opinion taken, not a conclusion. That is, the committee's opinion, not the board's conclusion. Based on what are you answering? You can't. Based on what you're picking up, you have to? You can't. You can't, so we accept that the board supported the law, and that what Col. Cacic was talking about at the end of his report was the opinion of four board members, not the opinion of the board. Thank you. Are the representatives of the Committee on Finance or Legislatives still reporting? For the economy, I'm sorry. Here you go. So, the report of the Committee on Economy, the chairman of the board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7052	The Committee on the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 4th session held in 2004 discussed the proposal of the Law amending the Law on Railways, with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 25 February 2004, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as an interested working body. The opening presentation was submitted by a representative of the applicant. The debate, which followed, concluded that modernising rail infrastructure is necessary. Most members of the board supported the government's proposal because it believes that debts and obligations are a valid reason for delaying the Croatian Railway Modernisation Project. They stressed that this year the government allocates considerable funds for Croatian railways, which suggests a willingness to continue the modernisation project of Croatian railways with a reasonable delay. Fewer members of the board expressed a view that this legislative proposal should not be accepted, as not every not investing in the modernisation of railways is bad for its competitiveness, demands even greater investment in the coming period. Part of the board of four members asked for a vote on an individual opinion on the legislative proposal. That opinion concerns the proposal to vote on this item of the agenda after the vote on the state budget, and that is because, without knowledge of what revenue, or expenditure items of the budget, this item of the agenda cannot be taken into account. At the end of the debate, all participants supported the approach in which the modernisation of HZ is necessary, so that the majority of MPs, due to the obligation to pay for external debt, and the commitment of the state budget transferred from last year, pointed to the fact that the implementation of some strategic projects must be delayed, among others, and the modernisation of railways. After the discussion, the committee proposed the following conclusion by majority votes 7 for and 4 against the Croatian Parliament. It is supported by the adoption of a law amending the Law on Railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7053	I would like to thank Mr. Jandrokovic, president of the Committee. Are there any other representatives of the board who would like to submit a report? If not, we're going to a club debate. The first to discuss clubs was Mr. Damir Cain, who will speak on behalf of the IDS Club. Here you go, buddy Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7054	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. February 28th, so this year there's a text in the new list in the Voice of Istria to quote the title, "we'll become the Adriatic Tiger". and in this text, except that I was surprised by the easy statements made by the members of the State Secretary acting with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, I expressed an even greater surprise when I read that 2007 should begin with the start of construction of the railway from Pula to Rijeka or from Rijeka to Pula. That would de facto mean that that year should begin by breaking Ucka or Chicari tunnels. This is usually the old good idea of joining Istria means with Rijeka, Istria with Croatia and that railway. And surely everyone who comes from Istria will have to say hello. However, let us recall one such attempt from 1993, it seems to me that it happened on September 24th or 25th before the marking of the Pazan decisions when the late President Tudjman came to Istria and officially opened works on the already mentioned tunnel Učka or Cicaria. It's been more than 10 years, and the works clearly can't get started. By 2007, there are only 3 years left, and God forbid it starts with Učka or Cicicaria tunnel breach, but since it's an election year, at the IDS Club, we're afraid that this promise could turn back into that or that folk saying "promise of crazy joy". While it was a war year in 1993, it was unlikely that a tunnel of Učka or Cicaria could be built anyway. In 2007, it will be a year when we'll probably collude with foreign debt, but I would personally like to see that investment realised by that time. But I also want to be honest and I don't believe it. 8.5. However, in 2003 at the 32nd session, we discussed in this House the business plan of the Croatian Railways for the period 2003 to 2007. The main points of the plan concerned the first rationalisation of employees, meaning a reduction in the number of employees. Secondly, word has been made that 400 million dollars a year will be invested in the modernisation of the railways during that period. That would be about 400 million euros today. And thirdly, at least we at the IDS Club were at least challenging the Government of Croatia's intention to transfer the burden of non-resilient local railways to the counties. Last year, as we know on the railroad, there were 16 thousand 352 employees. We all know that the war first lost this direction from Zagreb to Belgrade. Because of the war, defacto stopped working to caricate the Rijeka port that was left without a burden, and that means that this railway from Rijeka to Zagreb and Budapest were left without a burden. The same is probably true for the railway between Ploč and Sarajevo. And finally third, last year, last year, a billion kuna and 300 million kuna were allocated to the railways' subsidy, and by 2007, a billion kuna plus 3 billion kunas were to be allocated by the projection, which would say about 600 million euros for the modernisation of the railroad and all year round. And that's when we talked at the IDS Club that it was a pretty brave decision. So, in four years for the modernisation of the railway in the Republic of Croatia, a billion and 600m euros were to be allocated, which will somehow amount to, say, a seven, perhaps six-year budget. It was supposed to be in the railways annually, as I said, to direct 600m euros or about 350,000 kuna per employee per year. I said that debate was held that way in 8.5.2003. At that time, I said in front of the IDS Club a sentence that the concern of the railway cannot only be a unional even less problem of the local community, it cannot be the single state itself, it must be the fastest possible and here I place a clear and emphasis on the economy with one cynical remark that what it will take care of the railways or railways when in these circumstances defacto cannot take care of itself alone. We then voted against this plan in the IDS and I would like to say that, mainly because of the burden of financing non-performable railways was being transferred to the county and here I am in front of the IDS Club that means this cargo transfer, even if it means 10% of the budget to the county itself, it is something that borders us with the good taste of the representatives of us who propose such material. And I hope that we will all be united against these measures that are definitely heading towards the removal of the local railways from one side and perhaps the county itself. The railway law means the debate in the seventh month of 2003. The law published in the National Journal No 31 of July 2003. The central part of this law concerns the financing of railway infrastructure through this famous Article 32(4), which says that, I quote, "the fee is paid per litre of delivered and imported oil derivatives of 60 June or 0,60 kuna on behalf of the Croatian Railways since 1.1.2004". Let's take it or translate it into some common language. That means it's gasoline, it's oil, etc. as I'm supposed to interpret it, you should've already collected 60 limes per litre of delivered and imported petroleum products. Put it this way would mean it and the minister agrees. Now we're coming up with this central issue. I agree, the railroad is worth saving. She's gonna say we're going devastated. The objective circumstance in such a state may have been a long non-maintainment, certainly war. In 1989, about 43.6 million passengers were transported. In 1992, only 17.8 million passengers were transported to the railways. The establishment of peace means that the traffic of civil traffic by citizens doesn't know how to express itself is growing, so in 1999 it reaches 30 million passengers, 2000. 34.6 million passengers, 2001. 36.9 million passengers. So he, then, means that civil traffic means the citizens started approaching the number in question. Now, what happens when the goods are due? In 1989 it was transported before the war, carried 39.8 million tonnes, 1992 due to the war of only 10.8 million tonnes, in 1999 it is already a peaceful period as interesting as in the war is transported by rail only 11.5 million tonnes, in 2000 traffic drops to 11 million tonnes, in 2001 it grows to a small 11.9 million tonnes. What I think is amazing in exporting is the railway was even more represented by war in 1992 than in 2001, which may not be surprising because exports from Croatia to the world have practically not increased in the last 10 years. Maybe it's the exception to Istria. In 1992, Istria had exports of 270 million US dollars, last year we ended up exporting $750 million a year, or that export increased by 10% from 1992 to today. And I say, if you can do it in Istria, you can do it elsewhere. Another central issue here would be whether our citizens agree to pay the price of gasoline or oil for 60 lipa plus a clear VAT more than they have paid so far and all because of the modernisation of the railroad. And I'll be completely open if I say that if I were to give them a chance to just doubt it. It is indisputable, we can impose a modernisation of the railways through the price of gasoline, but our citizens will say on such an alchemy they are allergic. They're simply against it with the right sensitivity. Therefore, we are left with the only budget, redistribution of certain items, rationalisation on the railways i.e. an increase in freight transport or passengers. However, our public companies Croatia Railway is one of them in a way "and some social institutions" because where, say, thousands of people from some, I will call them "passive areas" if they run out of work and work because of the economic stagnation that may begin this year I doubt that they will be for that population. The capital does not enter this country and we agree or do not agree that Croatia is at the best to say a brighter position, the more likely tourism is due to the European football championship in Portugal and, on the other hand, the Olympic Games in Athens will also be significantly affected this year 2004. As far as the number of persons employed in the Croatian railways is concerned, there are probably about 16 thousand of them today. How much? 14 thousand 900 says Mr. Linic. In 93, there were 22 thousand 940, 95. 21 grand 812, 96. 22 973, since 2000, means this trend of rationalization begins. And finally, allow me two more sentences, when the Istrian stripes are on Wednesday, and with that somehow I started this conversion. Istria is not connected with other parts of the Republic of Croatia, but only by train can you reach Zagreb via Kozina, Divljače, Ljubljana, Novo Mesto, etc. On this occasion, the competent resolution minister would simply appeal that the devastation at Buzet, which trains pass from 10 km an hour simply repairs. A few million kunas can cost it, not anymore. But I simply don't think there should be any insurmountable burden on the Republic of Croatia's budget. Therefore, for the end of the IDS, it is absolutely against the railway to collect gasoline or oil. The second IDS is for modernising railways and the government that promised it to be something of a choice and implement it, we certainly won't interfere with that if it is in our power to help. Therefore, we have no choice but to refrain from this legal proposal. The creators would say neither left nor right, but in their own way and almost what we'd do.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7055	Thank you, colleague Caine, who spoke on behalf of the IDS Club. And now on behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Tonci Tadic. Here you go, Mr. Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7056	Ladies and gentlemen of the vice president, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary. The Croatian party's club of representatives with extreme concern studied this law and because we are fully aware that the implementation of this law means delaying the modernisation of Croatian railways with severe consequences for the Republic of Croatia and its position as joints is renewed and Mediterranean. By commenting on the club, this law has been established that the whole of the law can actually come down to one single sentence. The government is not giving up on the railway modernisation program, but it won't implement it. So that's actually the point of the story. So there are good intentions, but you won't realize them. It's too high to mention here now, but obviously, in the last 10 years, the railroad has been cut off for investments of approximately 90 million a year less than depreciation. That it was lagging behind in the remont cycles about 130 km of railways, which is almost half of the Croatian railway network. That HH has an out-of-date fleet, that traffic on our tracks fell to only a third of the period from 90 years ago. Which automatically drags and declines in income especially on the most frequent 10th corridor that connects the east with the west of Croatia. When all of this is taken into account, knowing that Croatia was forced to work in the meantime, that the war has derailed traffic flows from the territory of Croatia, we find it really incomprehensible to delay the modernisation of Croatian railways. I have this one card, unfortunately it's quite small, but those who deal with the railroad know, so, in the meantime, there was a transfer of most of the traffic to the Slavic ports. And this Law, the Law on Railways and this modernisation plan is in fact a desperate attempt by Croatia to re-route traffic flows towards Croatian, Adriatic and river ports. If that doesn't happen, we can say goodbye in a few years not only to the Croatian railway, but we can say goodbye to the so-called The Adriatic orientation of Croatia, with modernization and investment in the ports of Rijeka, Zadar, Pula, Ploče and even Split, can be welcomed with the perspective our river ports in Vukovar, Osijek, Slavonski Brod and Sisak, but we can also welcome the revitalisation of once very frequent and profitable ports such as Osijek-Gabush-Vinkovci. So all of this needs to be taken care of. But what is crucial is that, forgive me for cynicism, the development of highways to contribute to the import of motor vehicles and to foreign motor vehicles while the development of railways generally contributes to the development of domestic manufacturers of railway vehicles. If you give up such an investment plan in HZ comes into question Djuro Djakovic, who ordered 1326 freight wagons, the Međimurje producer who works for HZ 50 low-level wagons is at stake. The question comes to the question of Janko Gredelj’s railways factory with the modernisation of existing wagons, comes to the question of Končar with agreed jobs for several system locomotives. In practice, most of the still surviving Croatian metal industry. All of this should be taken into account when it comes to giving up or delaying this program. This morning, on the Committee on Economy, I asked the Assistant Minister if this meant reducing the scope or delay. The answer was not completely clear to me or to my colleagues at the HSP Club, and it is really not clear whether this whole project is being moved one year ahead or just coming to its narrowing. However, however, the key fact remains that in 2006 under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Croatia must liberalise transport on its railways, that Croatia must until then separate rail transport, therefore, railway transport operator from infrastructure, that it must then call concessions for operator status on our rail corridors, but also at that point in 2006. HH may participate in tendering for concessions for transport corridors in neighbouring countries. It is of exceptional interest that HZ is elected as an operator on a complete VC corridor because it can only guarantee a high profit yield at the river port of Osijek and at the port of Ploče as well as on the complete transport corridor. What it might mean to hire within the BIH is too high to mention. There's no reason HH doesn't fight for such a thing, but HH won't be able to handle it if it's lagging behind in modernization, that's what it's about. So repercusion, the consequences of lagging behind in modernization for that one year that seems so small are actually great. Because afterwards, HZ will have only one year to adapt to this demanding international competition. And of course they will be able to say goodbye to the fact that they will fight for an operator in God's name in some of the more developed neighbouring countries that will, in the meantime, join the European Union. Therefore, all of this should be taken into account when a decision is made to postpone the modernisation of HH. It also mentions how then HH with such a funding system would actually be an increase in the consolidated budget. But we ladies and gentlemen are funding highways in exactly the same way. It's just that demagogues are easier to defend the highway than railroads. Because the highway allows a series of opening windows, tunnels, stocks, while this is about opening up a modernization of existing railways, which already exist, or possibly once or two faster trains, which may not be attractive in the media. But for the Croatian economy, it is extremely important. So what we find particularly worrying is that the government is doing these items in the budget, otherwise 84 billion kunas delay the modernisation of Croatian railways by offering no alternative solution. Not offering, say, a solution to reduce HH extraction to, say, 20 limes per litre. Not offering a solution to take the excise duty procedure from imports of road vehicles no solution. Therefore, on the one hand, it is acceptable and normal for the HH to buy a contribution to the construction of the highway for its diesel and, on the other hand, it is not acceptable to finance HH from the revenues of the highway. On the one hand, it is acceptable and perfectly normal for the construction of highways to be part of a consolidated budget, on the other hand it is not acceptable and it is not normal for the modernisation of HH to be part of a consolidated budget. So these are things that we simply don't understand, we can't accept, and that's why this whole concept that is here and exposed to this kind of delay is really unacceptable. So, we're not for this kind of law, we think the government had to figure out a way to finance HH because the consequences I repeat since the delay of this process really would say unspeakable. And in any case fatal to the Republic of Croatia. The other day I took part in the round table on the modernisation of HH, I brought it all up, these are not HSP positions that are unknown to him. We stood them up in the election campaign. We pointed out that it is also of paramount importance for road traffic development that as soon as possible it will move on to the transport system, tow and tow trucks of low floor wagons, which can now be unloaded by the state road... 1 from Split to Zagreb, i.e. that we will have to apply it at that time as the Austrians and Italians do in order to preserve August of our highways. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We talked about all of this, we talked about how it was necessary to develop terminals to board low-rise wagons in Knun, Ploča, Rijeka, Zagreb and Vinkovci. We mentioned a thousand times, which means modernization of Croatian and Croatian ports. We held a roundtable two years ago about it in Vinkovci. All HSP's views are very well known. We even said we'd have Mr. Ministers in the past puzzle and a certain agreement with your party's club and on the modernisation of HZ and that's why it's really strange and unacceptable for us to come out with this law right now. There's so much on our side for us that this law is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7057	I thank Mr. Tadic. Mr Zivko Nenadić came forward to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7058	Dear Vice-President, he would correct Tadic's incorrect quote when he said the government offered nothing as compensation by giving up these 0.6 kuna per lite of fuel. And here's a moment earlier, the minister said he offered 25% more from the state budget this year than last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7059	Thank you. The next is the Club Libre on behalf of the Club LIBRE, Mr. Željko Pavlic, here you go, Mr. Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7060	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The LIBRE Club will not support these proposed changes. Because in our opinion, one of the most important capital development projects in the Republic of Croatia is at stake. That is why, before this debate in Parliament, there have been various largely negative reactions to this Law both in Croatian railways and in the government itself, where we have heard from Ministers Shuker iKalmete various versions of the fate of the railway line and the slope trains. Prime Minister Sanader himself is using this project to justify his own policy alibi. In our opinion, we are talking about releasing the smoke screen to cover up the fact that this government does not have the courage to accept the challenges of development and the implementation of major development projects. Which is often risky. He's already running a clean Ziehera policy hiding behind projects initiated by the former government, as an illustration of this kind of policy, can also serve us today's agenda. Where, in the first 6 points of the agenda, spending funds are allocated, while the funds for the capital development project in point 7. That's right for railway development. Therefore, the club will not support the proposed changes and reminding that the existing railway law was passed just over 6 months ago. That's July 17, 2003. At that time, we supported the railway law, which was planned to raise the quality of rail transport services. The Croatian railways are being overloaded into an efficient and market-based enterprise and rail transport to adapt to the European Union guidelines. The implementation of the existing law would therefore be carried out by training Croatian railways for specificity on the transport market, which will be achieved by harmonising with the European rail network to meet European standards. Development of culminated traffic and with a prominent maritime orientation i.e. links to ports. To achieve these goals, a business plan for Croatian railways has been adopted. In which 15 billion kunas were scheduled to be invested in construction and modernisation during the five-year period. And for a 10 billion 360 million infrastructure, mobile capacity 4 billion 900 million, passenger transport 3 billion 180 million, and freight transport a billion and 713 million kuna. Among other things, it was planned to acquire 13 sets of tilt trains, 70 classic motor trains, modernize 511 passenger cars and 5 thousand 130 freight wagons and get 1547 new terrain wagons and so on. Most of these jobs would get domestic companies about Djura Djakovic to the radio station in Čakovec. It is not only the reconstruction of the railways and the acquisition of slope trains but the complete equipment and modernisation of Croatian railways, which are necessary. And that's what we're best told by the information that they're like. devices regulated by trains older than 60 years of age that have not yet secured all road crossings in the corridor direction. That our cars and locomotives are older than 30 years old and that they often drive along the tracks at a speed of 10 to 20 km and that is because of the need for a remont rail for about 1,000 kilometers. Or about a third of the whole railway network. According to general indicators, the development of the Croatian railway lags behind the average. Not only for the countries of the European Union but for the countries of Central, Eastern Europe. This lag is particularly pronounced when it comes to the electrification of the network and the length of the long lines. With a delay in the application of the Railway Act, which should apply only from 1.6. In 2006, the lagging behind of Croatian railways would become even more pronounced and threaten to actually shut it down. Because some warn that such an impoverished Croatian railway would become a cheap takeover target. Croatia is located on as many as three important international corridors connecting the Adriatic and southern Europe with Central Europe, it is a big bait for all potential buyers or entrepreneurs. In contrast, the former government had a completely different vision of Croatian railways being one of the three regional leaders in the transport of goods and passengers to the railways. And that can't be achieved by the means provided, in the 2004 budget, where about a billion and a half kuna are foreseen and that's not enough for salaries that give us more than 120 million per month, therefore. By contrast, the former government has adopted a five-year plan, restructuring, in which 15-and-a-half billion kuna is needed for reconstruction and restructuring. Also, according to the Association and Stabilisation Programme, a new law on railways has been adopted which provides for the separation of infrastructure and transport since 1.1.2005 and 0.6 kuna from infrastructure maintenance excise duty. None of these conditions will therefore be met. What can be the consequences? The consequences may be that the obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement have not been met since 2006. A number of employees in the Croatian Railways will be questioned. There will be difficulties in the business of companies that should have made 60% of the total investment in locomotive infrastructure, wagons, and so on. From Đura Djakovic, Gredelj, Konachar. A hammer. The port of Rijeka and the port of Ploče will also not be highly connected to its surroundings. There is also a deduction of credibility towards foreign banks, and a delay in the implementation of this project will certainly challenge economic growth and thereby disrupt macroeconomic stability. So for all these reasons, the Club of Libre cannot accept this Law, but rather advocates the continuation of this acapital development project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7061	I thank Mr. Pavlic on behalf of the Club Libre. We have a few corrections to an incorrect quote. Mr Matušić first reported to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7062	I thank Madam Vice President, /the speaker has been excluded/...with a large number of incorrect and tenorous claims by my colleague Pavlica I must highlight one which is that it is entirely and incorrect that this government implements an alibi policy. And it is true that the government that you supported from your colleague, Pavlic, made decisions without cover. So six and a half billion kuna decisions last year led us into a truly invisible situation in this area. And that's right. And no alibi for the policy you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7063	Thank you, Mr. Matusic. Others have come forward to correct Mr. Velimir Pleša's incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7064	Thank you very much, it's an incorrect claim from Mr. Agents that the former government had a completely different vision. This completely different vision was visible only three months before the election, and it was just another example of something that could not be fulfilled but was left to someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7065	Thank you. Next, Mr Turic came forward to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7066	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm correcting the false allegations of Mr. Agents who said this government will not continue to develop, so modernize. That's not true. He just won't continue to get into the bending trains without the necessary investment studies and that he'll buy them all together without a public tender with a direct contract. You all know exactly what that means. That's not what this government is gonna do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7067	Thank you. The next one came to Mrs. Byte to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7068	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of a colleague who said that this government has no courage to meet the challenges. This government has the courage and knows, however, this government has inherited the pre-expended 6.5 billion kuna, and in addition 16 billion debt comes at a charge this year so unfortunately this government cannot catch up with what it wanted this year because it had the government of courage to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7069	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. Next is the club of HSLS and DC Mr Mate Brletić. Here you go, Mr. Brletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7070	Madam President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The club of the representatives of HSLS and DC shall accept the explanation of the applicant for this law and the established basis for the emergency procedure of adoption. Rerouting part of the fuel excise on the development of railway infrastructure, as the current Railway Act provides. It can lead to two consequences, (a) a reduction in the budget revenues and related to that... of the State's debts in order to cover all the intended costs or (b) an increase in the price of motor fuels for the new imposed cost of 60 June, which transfers the cost of the development of the railway infrastructure directly to the citizens and their standard and can cause the entire spiral of price increases to a small extent. As the fuel price is woven into the price of a number of products, this method can ultimately lead to an increase in inflation. Generally speaking, a strong burden on high-end motor fuel prices leads to doubtful results in the country of the size of the Republic of Croatia. If the price of motor fuels becomes higher than in neighbouring countries, many citizens will take fuel from the other side of the border, so the money will go into the budgets of our neighbouring countries instead of the Croatian budget. Furthermore, the burden on motor fuel prices certainly does not affect transit at all. Modern passenger and freight vehicles can pass most international traffic routes through the Republic of Croatia without fuelling. Therefore, the strong use of excise duties on motor fuels is more appropriate for geographically larger countries where the main transit routes are between 500 and 600 km long as possible to cross with one fuelling. I want to take this opportunity to draw attention to our partial and partly unacceptable transport policy in the Republic of Croatia. The Law on Railways is a white - headed example where it is easy to burden the state in the future without entering into deeper analysis. We hear that the reconstruction of the railways will also be slowed down due to lack of funds. We understand that the government is in a very awkward situation. On the one hand, it is necessary to alert the railway as one of the generators of economic development and, on the other hand, to prevent further borrowing of the Republic of Croatia whose external debt at the border is acceptable. We understand that Croatia must behave like any young family that solves existential issues, and if such a family has a loan for a flat and a couple of furniture loans, it must wait a few years for the purchase of a new car. However, the matter of setting priorities is clear that Croatia needs faster railways, it is clear that Croatia needs highways to Dubrovnik and highways to Osijek and the Sisak-Rijek railway line and the Danube-Sava channel, and it is clear that all of this cannot be built at the same time. The large infrastructure projects in Europe of a type of tunnel construction through the Alps or canals of Rayna-Mayna-Dunav were considered to be the long-term capital investments in Austria, Italy and Germany, so the countries that are among the most developed, richest in the world. It is therefore necessary to establish a transport development strategy, indicate the number of infrastructures, railways, roads, canals, airports, and explain priorities as an example of a water i.e. River transport has even more advantages than rail, so why, for example, not go to a part of the excise duty. And to raise the wateriness of the Sava River. I therefore call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, in particular, the Ministry of Transport and Economy to take advantage of the delays in the application of the Law on Railways and to set priorities for the development of transport in Croatia by the end of 2004, the development of transport infrastructure cannot be based on the principle of loading me with how much remaining in the budget. Also, infrastructure construction deadlines should not be based on the wishes or pressures of various transport lobbys but on real indicators. For example, some economic operators may base their business on data that a particular traffic direction will be 30% faster than June of this year and if such a plan is not achieved, such an entity will suffer damage. It is therefore better to say that some of the transport infrastructure will be completed two years later than for promotional reasons will lead citizens and the economy astray. Furthermore, the development of transport infrastructure is not and cannot be a single government job. Many elements have been built for more than four years, and for some example, water canals have a period of construction of more than 10 years. Therefore, just as I call on this Government to step forward from the previous ones and I propose a quality plan for the development of transport infrastructure. So I call on the parliamentary parties to make an effort and reach agreement on the fundamental development issues of transport infrastructure. As far as railway development is concerned, we believe that Croatia needs a quality rail network, not only that the river transport at a distance of over 100 kilometers allows far the cheapest way to transport goods, but not only the modern fast rail system becomes an increasingly important factor in the transport of passengers from the suburban to the medium distance, but it again represents the most environmentally acceptable branch of transport, along with the maritime river transport. For example, according to European Union data in the total release of carbon dioxide, transport sector, road... participates in almost 80% of these personal cars 55% while the railroad participates below 4%. [[You don't understand.]] Better safety of rail transport than road traffic should not even be mentioned. We therefore support this proposal, we consider it a direct rerouting of part of the fuel costs to the development of railway infrastructure not a quality solution, but we call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make a list of priorities for the development of the transport infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia together with our transport experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7071	I thank Mr. Brletic on behalf of the HSLS and DC club. Next up is Mr. Zivko Nenadić on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go, Mr. Nenadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7072	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is a very short, short bill of law, but it's obviously causing a lot of controversy. There's also a reason why it's like that. So here you're looking for two changes. One is to abolish that 0.6 lipa, kuna per litre of fuel, and the other is to postpone the law by one year. Why is that? We've heard it before, but I'll repeat a few thoughts. It's interesting that the Law itself was passed before the elections, and I would say that it was in some way an electoral law, promises, we promise, but someone else will do it. In fact, if no amendment to this law was proposed then indeed, as the minister said, this should be consolidated with the budget and I repeat again, it is not true that nothing is compensated for this. In fact, 25% of the Croatian railway budget goes beyond what was invested in the state budget last year. Why is it delayed for a year of application? In fact, we also spoke these days in the Parliament, here 30% of the budget has already been spent. 30%, that's the 8% debt, not the debt already spent 6 and a half billion kuna we talked about many times, and also 25% of the budget must be paid back, serviced external debt this year. So 30% of the debt, 30% of the budget has already been spent, and that is why we are simply not able to apply these legal provisions that the previous government has passed in pre-election time. I think the unions who wrote to me, I believe you, too, that they care, and here I have a letter and a union of engineers of Croatia and I have a trade union of Croatian trains. I'm saying, I believe they've written to everyone, to all the MPs. He says they care about the status of machine staff and the modernisation of HZ with the aim of ensuring two, taking place safe and orderly traffic for decent Croatian citizens. Of course, we also say that we care about it and that it is our goal, but we also care about it in action, not just in words and promises. Because we are aware of the problems and importance of the Croatian Railways, and that is why we do not approach the problem politically but responsibly. I'm going to paraphrasise the poet a little bit, if we have 10 problems then we catch up with those and a few of whom we can get rid of, the priority, when describing the hero said, for him who wants to hit not ten to run, but two to cut them. So, we're not going to run away from the voters and the unions, but we're going to set priorities, and for, reps are still being paid. So, we'll set priorities and solve them that way. Of course, as a responsible party, we must consolidate the obvious budget, we must service the debts from which we cannot escape and we will solve, as I said, the problem by problem, according to the priorities of this country...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7073	Please, colleagues. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7074	... without jeopardizing this country so that someone could take it cheaply under the patronate and protectorate because HDZ is not to be brought into a certain bankruptcy, and then the first Croatian railways would pay the price. Therefore, the HDZ will support this bill and, as is said to be, we believe that debt transfers are indeed a valid reason for this, and I also repeat once again, that this is not as it has been said, definitely giving up on the development project I would say that this is definitely giving up on false promises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7075	I thank my colleague, Nenadic. We have a series of corrections to an incorrect quote. The first to correct the incorrect quote was Mrs. Opacic. Here you go, Mrs. Opacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7076	So I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Nenadic who says that this law was a pre-election promise that we made in this House, which we thought someone else would do. No, Mr. Sudden. This bill came from the traffic strategy this House has made, and as far as pre-election promises are concerned, it's really something that you like because your prime minister said in a pre-election campaign that we are a little singler for HZ and that it needs much, much more to be singled out. You can see how much more he stands out for HH.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7077	Thank you. To correct the incorrect allegations, the next one was Mrs. Anticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7078	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It is not true what the fellow MP said that the former government left 6.4 billion in debt. In fact, there's no debt but it's called something, you have to learn what's called a deficit and it's something that maybe citizens recognize that way. What if the electricity was spent at 12 months, normally it was paid at 1 month. However, this is already common in the lack of HDZ arguments constantly pulls the wildcard out of the sleeves of some kind of fictitious 6.4 billion debt. That debt doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7079	Thank you. The following came to the attention of Mrs Zgrebec to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go, Mrs. Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7080	It's been incorrect this speech about a six-and-a-half billion-billion-long debt that's been going through for a week since the budget's been discussed. I ask you to agree on how much this debt is because you are talking about one level of debt, you are talking about one level of debt in terms of the state budget, about the other orally, and we will tell the third about when the time comes, which is actually a delegated commitment and what are the obligations to be paid in 2004, and they were created in 2003 because the maturity deadlines were not in 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7081	Thank you. Next, Mr. Korenik came forward to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7082	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague said that with 25% more money from the budget, the situation on the railroads will be settled. It's simply incorrect because it's predicted with 60 limes that were supposed to come a billion and 400 million kuna, 25% that needed additional from the budget are certainly not and don't tell stories. The fact is, I need to remind you of the privatisation, the debt service, because it seems to me that you forgot when the debts were made and who was doing that privatisation that was the way it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7083	Thank you. Next came Mr. Jurjevic to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go, Mr. Jurevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7084	It is not true, as counterpart Nenadic said, that anyone wanted to bring Croatia under, as he said, a protectorate. No, on the contrary, it was intended to modernise Croatian railways that would have been carried out if it hadn't been for the state to shift power.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7085	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Next up's the SDP Club. On behalf of the SDP club Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go, Mr. Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7086	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Let's start in 1999 and Croatian Railways. Unpaid salaries, union conflicts, usually weekly two accidents, two train accidents, a year and a half unpaid INA accounts, HEP, all suppliers. Maintenance was such that the speed on certain shares was 5 to 10 kilometers. It is the state of the Croatian railway in 1999, 5 years after I would say the battle for freedom is over. Today, the railway that you say the former coalition government has led politics and irresponsible rail policy, you have a situation where the World Bank report that said that it does not want to be implemented in Croatia structural changes on the railways and does not want to stop the irresponsible spending of money on the railways today cannot find the World Bank vice versa, that in four years there has been restructuring, with 20,000 employees today you have 14 thousand and 900 employees but it is not 6 thousand fired but has already formed 16 companies that are on the market and besides the railways earning their bread and struggle to survive. It was done in 4 years on the Croatian railway. At the same time, the Croatian railways regularly pay commitments, a finally signed collective agreement I would mention that the only murder of union leaders was just in the railways and total conflicts and misunderstandings of government, administration and unions. You finally have collective agreements today. The salary average from below or slightly above 3000 today is 4200 kuna net. Therefore, a stabilized system. At the same time, through the efficient work of the administration you have a battle for more passengers, greater tone and what is most important all this in smaller kilometers to make the effect of the business of Croatian railways as much as possible. So the losses of about one billion kuna per year are now going down to about 200 million, which are primarily the result of insufficient subsidies from the budget, not the work of the railways. In the debates in the Parliament when it comes to strategies you know what basic everyone wants the local railways, today we also heard Caina wants the local railways but not to be financed by local self-government, not by the state, so who does. The railroad. It doesn't exist anywhere in the world. The problem of transporting passengers is a visible problem of subsidies and because we do not have problems with insufficient revenues in Croatia's railways. But what happens in politics that happens today at a time when Prime Minister Sanader is talking about tolerance, mutual respect, that we need to create development that we need to respect each other, Mr. Prime Minister is talking about a USKOK that is questioning illegalities, which wants to affect the administration of the railroad. He's talking about pretentious technology, overpriced technology, and crime. These are speeches that I cannot put under respect, tolerance, battle for development. We need together in this way that the management that has stabilised the system for 4 years, which has tried from one of Croatia's huge problems, and this is Croatia's biggest problem to create a system in which we can work and live, from this pay phone no, but from the speakers of the party Prime Minister Sanader points out a call to the lynch, orders things that are not good and which is the effect of that, I ask you which administration can continue to drive and run a system like the Croatian Railways. Put yourself in the position of that administration, if you can control a system of 15,000 employees with such messages from the prime minister who says that this administration is the one to be questioned and re-examined by the USKOK. Do you think it's possible to run that system? It's not possible. And such a system can no longer be run, which are messages, which are what we want to destabilise something that we have tried for four years to really set as the backbone of development. It's today's story about this law. It's a story today, when we don't have arguments, when we see it's hard, and it's hard to make decisions, then we create unrest, decomposition, obviously that some of our old manners are too implanted in behavior and we can't change them. I leave it to each of you to try to answer to yourself but also to the citizens of Croatia where it takes us politicians who are... conflicting to find an excuse for some of their actions. But I can't very much say the SDP's position, we won't accept this proposal. And in the first and second articles, you know why? For the reason that already in the 8th month of last year, by passing this Law, we had to postpone for a year and a half, the application of this Law should have been only 1.1. 95, a year and a half, enough to carry out legal compliance with the practice of the European Union and the directives of the European Union, but for the administration to implement organisational changes. Why now we're going through another year and it's been talking about prolongation for a year, so it's not true, it's full of two years. And it's not necessary. And we're talking about those 60 limes that need to be given for the infrastructure, and we're opposed to it being abolished and proposing a retreat forever. I'll try and explain it. If the restructuring of railways is not continued until the 96th year and the European Union has issued a third generation directive this month, 2006 and the European Union is now issuing a third generation, this means that Croatian railways as commercial companies that need to be on the market for cargo, and passenger transport will not drive in Croatia, either in Austria or Germany. Because that moment on the tracks, especially corridors, only those who have towed by European standards, freight wagons according to European standards, passenger cars according to European standards will be found. Croatia will not have its own cargo or passenger carrier, whether they are called HZ, one way or another, which will be able to drive on domestic railways. Because that means 2006 will start in 2006, when it starts for a minimum of 3 to 4 years, that's 2010. Europe will not accept HZ. And what we want to say, where we have a problem with the balance of payments deficit where we can give competitive goods and services, tourism as one and transport and services in transport where not only railways, but also sea and river ports. There we can provide all kinds of services on domestic land, thus reducing the balance of payments deficit, it's a battle for our exports. Because unfortunately, to expect rapid changes, in economic policy where we will have products competitive for Europe will be very difficult and that is what is our problem that will be dealt with for a long time. Why do we give up income in transport, both on railways and on roads and on ports, whether they're Rijeka or they're seas. And as for 060 you see the government of Prime Minister Ivica Racan had the courage to say let's go to the road, in three years of the road but she had the courage to say let's go extra excise on the mountain. And it wasn't a problem for us to close the financial structures because the excise charge plus I'd say the revenue roads from the bill was enough to cover all the loans and it dynamically. And no bank was afraid to give credit. Not on time or interest because it's a closed system. Now I'm asking you everywhere in Europe is the presence of a tax exemption for roads, but there is a tax exemption present and for railways. The battle for railways when today it is evident that the railway is returning to transport, that every country is increasingly turning to the railway is our responsibility to secure the cost of the closed system. Without excise duty, without fully clear indications, the indication that the original revenues to the railways will be both excise and that it will be used to repay the loans with which we will restore and reconstruct the railways and, I would say train or tow techniques and freight and passenger wagons cannot imagine that we will successfully carry out reconstructions and modernisation of the railway. That's necessary. That's what we have to show the financiers what we're gonna do. And it's incorrect that it's an increase of 60 limes. It's incorrect. What the government had done in its calculations earlier during Ivica Racan's mandate was 30% increase in fuel prices, 30 apologies lip, and 30 less in the State budget is savings in the State budget. That, so the new 30 Lips, that was the prognosis, but you say that's going to create inflation. And now I'm bringing you back to the question of how much we gave for the roads, remember? Yes, we grew noses like Pinocchio by the propaganda of the Croatian Democratic Community because we increased prices, but at the same time, apart from that year, some stronger inflation disorders rose the economy, inflation returned to the lowest in Europe, but gentlemen in the last two years are the most imported cars, the most imported cars. What would you like to say to me? Imagine rising price, driving. So we're trying to talk about economics. We're fighting for development. It takes courage, it takes strength to decide. And there was supposed to be a debate today whether 30 June higher price could stop the import of cars? Is that going to jeopardize the economy? How much inflation is that going to increase because of those 30 limes? So just remind yourself of games on market-based prices are the usual jumps of 30, 20, 30, 40 lips depending on how to change the price of oil on the world market. And it's not very special. But this is the safety that the railroad will have its own development. But it's not just the railroads. It's not just a problem how to finally make foreign exchanges from our services and our country's geostrategic position. It's something else, you know. I've already mentioned 16 companies that employ 5,000 people who are no longer directly on the railroad. I don't know how they're gonna be if they're in charge, I'd say the trust starts losing its income and having a hard time living for the next two years. But what matters is a metal industry that depends, but also modern technologies, software programs all hang on the railroad. You know the passenger train's enormous number. “Djure Djakovic” with over a thousand cargo wagons. It'll all stop. I'm not going to talk about the Chakovec with the most modern freight wagons for heavy road transport vehicles that don't pass so easily in Europe, but our vehicle from Chakovec does. It's all directly related to HH. How many jobs is that? Therefore, the question remains that the railroad is not a problem for itself. The railroad is primarily a macroeconomic stabiliser. He's and, I'd say, a project that ensures stopping, re-stopping the number, growing the number of unemployed. You see, when we look at it that way, when we want to discuss the system that way, then we're really going to conclude: a two-year delay will have serious consequences for the 3.2 growth rate in this budget. It will have serious consequences for the entire economy that depends on this project, but it will also have a difficult, difficult result for Croatian railways that will not be able to compete with Deutsche Balm or any carrier, and the Croatian infrastructure will have to be created at least in part of the European corridors.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7087	I thank Mr. Linic. For the breach of the Rules of Procedure he appeared, applied, pardon only one notice. I would like to inform you that Article 207 is in accordance with Article 207. The Rules of Procedure expired time to apply for 10 minutes in 18.42. Mr. Bitunac has applied for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Bitumen.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7088	Madam Vice President, Mr. Linic speaking in his famous style I would say... in style, he injured Article 214 paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 and, above all, making accusations at the expense of the current Prime Minister mentioning a lynch to God. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7089	Mr. Secretary called. Mr. Minister, wait if, if you could give me a moment to correct the incorrect quote, then you can do this, uh. Excuse me? No, for correcting incorrect allegations, you're reporting for correcting an incorrect quote. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? I'm sorry, I have you under an incorrect assumption. Then go ahead. I'm the one who misrepresented it. Mr. Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7090	Madam Vice President, Mr Linic made a mistake in a good part of his speech and sinned on Article 210 not by talking about the subject of which is the point of the agenda but by putting in place a link to Sanader's government known for his tone by which he acquired among journalists the attribute of the most merciful SDP politician.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7091	My assessment is that the article was not injured so that I did not interrupt it, and for the injury of the Rules of Procedure it appeared, Mr Arlovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7092	Madam Vice-President, Commissioner Puljic has injured Article 159, paragraph 5 in conjunction with Article 144(2) and Article 17(1). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Act of Emergency Procedure can be discussed in the first and second, as united in both the first and second readings, and I will quote Article 2 of Article 144, which states that the first reading of the Law includes the introductory presentation of the Proposer, the general debate on the Bill Proposal, the discussion of the details which includes the text of the Proposal for a Law, the debate on the position of the working bodies under consideration. This proposal is to draw conclusions on the need to pass laws. With that, I'm on Article 17... called because you were obliged to give an explanation and explanation, and you did not interrupt Mr Linic and in this respect, counterpart Puljic made a completely wrong statement of the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 210. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7093	Thank you, Mr. Arlovic. I have already said after Mr. Puljić's presentation that, according to my assessment, there was no injured article 210, which I did at the time. Now it's time to correct the inaccuracies. The first to correct the incorrect allegations was reported by Mr Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7094	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I will correct only two by believing that my colleagues will correct other incorrect allegations. The first false assumption is that in 1999, at the end of 1999, it was 5 years after the battle for freedom of Croatian territory. That's completely incorrect because that battle was over in 1998 with peaceful reintegration. Another incorrect allegation is that the parts of the government are about politics and a call for lynch. It is true that it is entirely legitimate for this government to establish facts relating to the purchase of wagons and contracts signed without a public tender. So, completely legitimately to find out what the amounts are, the more the contract is concluded with the intermediary, not with the manufacturer of the same wagons. It's about millions of dollars, and the public needs to know why it didn't go to a public tender and under what conditions and who did it. So, legitimately, it's right, and all we have to do is determine the truth and check what it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7095	Thank you. Next came Mr. Zivko Nenadić to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7096	Dear Vice President, I am correcting the quote of counterpart Linic, who said Prime Minister Sanader is calling for tolerance here, and at party meetings to call on the lynch. Correcting, that's not true. Because calling the BOOK isn't an invitation, they're calling the BOOK to work, not an invitation to the lynch, but an invitation to the rule of law, if that's why someone's afraid, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7097	Next came Mr. Zeljko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7098	Thank you, Madam President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to correct a few incorrect allegations. The first was that from 1995 to 1999 it was not four years, but five years, i.e. It's not five, it's four years. And it's quite clear why at that point it wasn't invested in the railways as much as it took. We know in areas of special state interest that we have lost both homes and jobs. Therefore, it was invested in reconstruction. Another incorrect quote. That Prime Minister Sanader is making a call to the lynch. Call for review is not an invitation to the lynch. And Mr Linic I will tell you what is the call to the link that was sent in 2000 in those cities and municipalities and counties, where the Croatian Democratic Community remained in power in 2001, Topusko Hospital has been dealing with the Crimea Police for two years they haven't found anything. It was an invitation to the lynch. And thirdly, the government of Ivica Racan had the courage to make a decision on the separation of 0.6 lips. The false assumption was that it was courage to make a decision that fell on the back, but then it was known on the back of whom. It was a promotional campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7099	Thank you. Don't overuse the corrections of an incorrect quote, sort of within the limits. Next came Mr. Stjepan Bačić to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7100	Dear Vice President, I have recorded three incorrect allegations, but one part has already been corrected. The peaceful reintegration of the Danube was 98. Therefore, five years is not the correct fact that the war has passed. Secondly, Mr. Linic said that since 99th, there has been an increased number of passengers and burdens, and I don't think that was the case, precisely, Mr. Kajin's data said that it has even been falling especially in terms of freight traffic. And thirdly, Prime Minister Sanader didn't call for a lynch, but just checking out some suspicious stores in HZ and it can't be called a lynching, so I think we should... [[speaks off, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7101	I thank Mr. Bačić. We're moving on to a follow-up debate at the clubs. Next up is the HSS Club and Mr. Luka Roic. You're the one who came forward with the amendment? Mr. Roic, excuse me a second, Mr. Jandrokovic has come forward to correct the incorrect allegations, I wrote it down here, but I crossed it too soon. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7102	I'll just be a little while. I would also like to correct the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Linic, that Prime Minister Sanader is calling for a lynch, because I believe that it is not true in the first place, and I also hold the inappropriate use of such dramatic expressions. No one calls for a lynch, not least Prime Minister Sanader. But we probably all care, probably the SDP's representatives, to discover the potential abuse of our taxpayers' funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7103	I thank Mr. Jandrokovic. That's what we're done with correcting the incorrect allegations. Excuse me, Mr. Roic, on behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Luka Roic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7104	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. There are few mistakes allowed, because when topics of this importance are this important, of course passions are slowly rising and it is no wonder that they slip away and what mistake. and we at the HSS Club on this bill that looks very short at first sight, and according to our assessment produces very important effects, I could actually say in a few words. The position of the HSS is not to accept the amendments to the law. The HSS's stance is to support the former government's proposal to allocate additional funds to the railways. Because you will admit, it is still fair, because we have dared to do so for the development of transport infrastructure when it comes to highways and roads, so why wouldn't it be logical for this same government to propose a model that was successful in that part to be successful in the part when it comes to modernising Croatian railways. I know by thinking about the debate, this topic, one part of my colleague Linic took from me, but I wanted to point out. I remembered the other night, or the afternoon when we discussed the Proposal for a Law on Croatian Highways. If we'd thought so then we probably wouldn't have gotten that nose, and we wouldn't have gotten that poster that said that the price of gasoline was then and then 4 kunas, and so much, and now it's so much, and that from tomorrow or ever since, it can be fueled at that price. It's true. That's right, it's a big decision. It's a very difficult decision. And that's always of course some will say at the expense of citizens' standards, but these are moves that brave, economic policy must take to realize the development programme it is convinced of. Because if that's not there, then there's no development. If you remember speaking for yourself, I said that my main objection to this budget is not optimistic enough. Which isn't ambitious enough, and that's why I suspected he could be developed, and also that he could be social. I know this is just rhetoric and that it can be spoken completely differently. But let us in opposition have the right to think this way. In some programme, in some future economic policy, we should clearly say what our priorities are, what we want to encourage, what we want to possibly slow down. What exactly is our economic policy? and from all of this, from these effects produced by this law, it is obvious that the government has decided to remain at the existing level of development of our railways and has chosen a model by which it will not present any further cost on the back of Croatian citizens, which is entirely legitimate. Fearing that all of this would not result in further deficits and would not endanger stability in their assessment of macroeconomic policy. And it's possible that way. And I'd like to pray that in the future we all make ourselves clearer to such our intentions and to make it clear, we want to do this at this point, and at this point we don't want to do what others are looking for. If maybe it was a different decision to build a highway in the separation of 0.60 limes per litre of gasoline, I believe, and I'm sure there wouldn't be half of it by now, and I won't say "A" from the freeway. But certainly not even close to this part he's in right now. If we look at statically, it would be a valid decision, but if we look at dynamically, I think it would be a complete mistake. All the effects we can see today from the highways we will see tomorrow I hope from the reconstructed modernised railways all these effects I hope we will feel all about economic growth on the development of all those branches that are so bound to transport infrastructure and which cannot be successfully developed if we fail to meet the standards set in the infrastructure. That must be a big problem. I don't have the illusion that it's easy. I don't have the illusion that it's easy to make a decision to further increase the price of gasoline, that it's hard to make a decision about the allocation of billions and more kunas every year or more in the modernisation of the railway but I'm quite convinced that this is our need. And that's why we at the HSS at our club are worried about what might not have been possible to think like this. If we think it's too much 0.60 lipa why it wasn't a proposal to make it half smaller, to maybe just be a sixth, to determine what priorities we're going to develop and what we're going to invest this initial amount that wouldn't be a major blow to the standard of Croatian citizens and that wouldn't be a major blow to relations in our budget. So if we said, I wish I'd heard from someone from the position that they said here we'd only separate 10 limes, but we'd invest in the reconstruction and reconstruction of the railroad, for example, Vinkovci-Gabos-Osjek, no doubt here's what I'm saying because I'm a Dalmatian so I don't seem to prefer some direction that was going towards Dalmatia. Of course, you wouldn't mind if the sloped trains and railways were also reconstructed and restored, and that we were all traveling nicer towards Split, but I wanted to be completely objective and to see that it was perhaps the biggest damage that was on our railway track and that it would be good to say that we would single out these first so much money for the reconstruction of these railways and thus repaying one part of the debt to this troubled part of Croatia's homeland in which we really need to invest certain funds, and I believe that you would all accept it. I'm sure you'd all accept that. And I don't want to, I really don't want you to be able to sexise with me if it's politics, but I assure you that the HSS Club would think very carefully about whether it would support this bill that would set this up and, if it were to be said, what are the other priorities that the Government Programme would adopt further and which will be projects that we will support. I believe that in this way we would get far more support from all MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Here, I wrote my speech but I was encouraged by all the debates in the House because I fully improvised these thoughts on this law because I appreciate that it has a significant impact on both the fate of Croatia and the Croatian economy and the transport infrastructure of our country because we all know that with these delays for another year and by eliminating the full possibility that it is financed from these funds that I was talking about we are trapping that nothing happens in the Croatian Railways. And if nothing happens then we will still have railways that can handle often tell me from railways up to 10, 20 kilometers above all say Slavonic railways and other railways, when we know that there are so many trains and trains that have been completely out of date for over 30 years, which can no longer meet European standards and we must remember that we are important territory in the integration of European corridors and that we must ensure that our rivers and our ports are used and by rail transport which is undoubtedly the most rational, which consumes the least energy, which is the most environmentally acceptable and in any other way in one preferential position. If we think about it that way then we can still, although unfortunately tomorrow is a debate on the budget and I believe it's almost too late for this year but we can find a way to revise our decision first of all to which I urge the Government to try to understand all these problems and try to install them in the proposal of this law so that, of course, the overall budget law can be made precisely, although of course I know that some of the figures and some of the figures we've heard earlier are quite worrying and it's not easy to make such decisions. But the Government of each sea, there is no other, must choose its direction, must be determined according to the priorities and courageously evaluate what it means at a given time and for the overall development of Croatia. I will therefore appeal once again and on behalf of the HSS we will not support the proposal to amend this law. If they come in some kind of modified form, then maybe they could accept it, but we'll certainly stay for now at the decision not to accept the amendment to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7105	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7106	Mr. President, it is a completely incorrect quote from fellow Roic that there would be no "A" on the highway if it wasn't for the courage of the then government coalition. Namely, I will remind my colleague Roic that the Zagreb-Dubrovnik highway project and other highways did not begin with the arrival of the coalition government in 2000, although he was still at peace. It's true that he was put on hold for two years and it wasn't about him. Also, you should be reminded that the fact that your colleagues who then acted as executive authority at the level of local self-government were also against highways because they even formed the opposite of HDZ's view that the Zagreb-Dubrovnik highway or Dubrovnik-Zagreb, as HDZ's would rather have called it, they formed a phantom stock company that was shut down and called the fast road Zagreb-Split-Dubrovnik. It's a phantom stock company that's formed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7107	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7108	Dear Mr. President, I will correct the quote of my colleague Roic, who said that by this bill, the government decided to keep HZ at the same level of development. That's not true. By singleing out the proposal 25% more for this year's budget, it denies and says HH will lead to a higher level of development, but this is still not enough for the application of the law on 1 January next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7109	Thank you very much. Minister Calmeta, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7110	I said in my speech when I explained the reasons why we are proposing amendments to this law, I said in the end that the delay does not mean giving up and we are not giving up this railway restructuring program that I am holding even if it isn't bad, but we will use this time to take a look at it as soon as possible and see if it's exactly that five-year deadline because that's what the World Bank thinks about fellow Linic. In a conversation with them, they told me that the question is whether 15 billion kunas to be allocated in 4 years is actually too short or not, and whether Croatia can withstand it. And that's the question of all the questions. I said earlier that we're spending about 6 billion dollars a year on highway construction and we're saying that we should single out, according to this maintenance and investment programme, the rail around 6 billion kuna, that's 12 billion kuna, and our deficit of the state budget is 4.5% or 9 billion kuna. No one is, no one is against this, and no one is unconscious, which would mean giving up on this. But the fact is what our people would say can be covered as much as you have. The second question is, is whether or not we could go on an adventure and have a deficit of 4.5% and on the side of the shrimp, which we would say in Dalmatia is whether, we could still be in charge of certain amounts and finance both this and other things. But that is, it is an adventure and a risk that could cost us, which could even question avi and which could even question Croatia's status as candidate countries. It is true that obligations were paid on a regular basis in HZ but np. This year, this year with the basis of the short-term loans HZ raised last year, which they raised from banks, I don't know from the Raiffeisen Bank, whom everything doesn't, ZABE and so on. This year... A billion and 500 million kuna, which year should be paid for that last year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the HHB has covered its costs, i.e. its obligations, etc., but this debt has been transferred from HH to the state budget, and this year it is due to be paid. Thus, the question is, as far as it can go and where the end is. The question of how much you can borrow, how long and where it ends. Therefore, no one wants and we will not destabilise Croatian railways and this, not only Croatian railways but anywhere else, if there is a certain doubt or I don't know what or if people are looking for it, if this is what some institutions are looking for, etc., so which one of us is against checking something out, but that check does not mean that the system needs to be compromised. I don't want to get into politics here right now, but I won't insult 2000. According to this, HZ is also important for the development of Croatian ports, said here, a colleague of Tadic talked about it and it is true. However, the reconstruction of the line will be completed this year. The railway line is not only important because of slope trains, the railway is important because of the combination of the port of Split, the port of Zadar, and the port of Sibenik, if you will, with Zagreb. In addition, the railway is one of the preconditions for port development, very important or important. Or, for example, This year in the state, in the proposal for this budget we predicted 100 million kuna for port development, last year 60 million kunas were foreseen for example. So, I mean, the thing to look at is complex. And it's supposed to be real after all. So I agree with, and much of what is said here by Mr Linic and so on, but one is the desire and another is the responsibility of making decisions at the moment we are at. I've said it before. The moment Croatia becomes and gets candidate status then both certain financial and certain financial institutions and certain opportunities will eventually change for the better, therefore no one says that it can turn into anything before. But what I said at the beginning and for maintaining the system and for subsidies because Croatian railways cannot function unless they are subsidized because their revenues are about 800 million a year and only... It seems to me about a billion and 400, 500 million, so both subsidies and part of capital investments, funds for a part of the capital investment, primarily I said about Djakovic and Gredelj and Končar this year will be secured. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're absolutely aware, we're aware of what the railroad means, we're aware of what it means to restructure the railroad, and we're going to do it in a way that we can do it as far as we can so that this project doesn't go any further, or else we don't stop. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7111	I thank you on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the PGS, respected representative Radimir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7112	Good evening, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would remind here that, with several other key promises that were the framework of the slogans of the Croatian Democratic Community, we will launch Croatia, this programme of railways was most strongly underlined. At that moment, the most important media duel between the then prime minister and the president of the strongest opposition party has been said three times that the government is giving too little for the railway programme. That HDZ is not satisfied with the government's policy, that HDZ is seeking and that it will give much more, that it sees and understands the meaning of the railways. It was either not known what was said, it would not be good if it were, or knowingly lied to the Croatian public, and it is worse if so. Let's decide what it is. The third obviously isn't here, or at least I don't see it. Here's the story I hear, my neighbor in the bench tells me that how you meet a colleague in a position of hand, he's talking 6.5 billion, he hasn't even said good day yet, no. Well, listen, people, no, so let's stop being ridiculous. I said it publicly, I said it at a meeting with Sanader, I said it here in the Parliament, I invited Minister Shuker to say which is 6 billion, of course he didn't say anything except that Mrs Dropulic came forward and here publicly in front of you that she never, ever, has a stenogram, read to herself, she didn't talk about a billion and 700 million transferred debt... But that's 44 million here for this pay phone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From 44 to 700 billion, there's a little bit of money in the game, a little bit of a lot to talk about by heart. So, gentlemen, that's just one detail, another detail is, let's say, the HBOR question 3030 million is being paid off, 235 million are using funds, so no billion and 600 million, but the difference is not a full 95 million, not a full 100 million. How much more the principals pay than the payoffs. The question of dues in court proceedings. The text of the budget statement says 400 million, and the budget itself says 100. Interesting. Explanatory 400 in budget 100. When an alibi is to be sought, it's four times more than what's meant to be returned. Oh, come on. People, we're not children. Don't be mad, but I've been in the government for four years. I can read the budget. So let's say loud and clear. There are no six and a half billion people here. And the introduction of a new category of debt payments in the last, 5, 10, 15, or 20 years of this country, into the category of liabilities transferred that is these 16 billion, it's an absolute contribution that is no wum even Shuker never said. Not even Shuker what we heard today from Mr. Nenadic. We're about to reach 50% of our transfer duties. We didn't start with six and a half billion, which was proven of course given in that speech, we added here today another 16 and a half we came to the 35 of which Nanadic speaks. So what are we talking about? Let's make a decision. So enough with the alibi stories. Enough with the alibi stories. What we're talking about is the government's responsibility, and the government's ability to recognize what the needs of this country are. Whether the government wants to learn about development, or whether it wants to spend money on the social welfare community, it wants to bring Croatia to where we found it in 2000. That's what this is about. This government has no choice. This government must pay from the first minute, not at the end of the term of office, which is usually at the time of the term of office of a majority government, this is a minority government that has its parameters, according to which it has made commitments, and every minute since its first second term of office, it must pay at the expense of developing on the back of the country's citizens and destroying this country. From the first second, she was not so incompetent, she was blackmailed by her simply numerical inability to rule. The sea must sign the return of housing rights for 60,000 apartments, completely amoral, must sign a suicide and support non-executive contracts in an act relating to the payment of more than 7 billion. It's inconclusive. And then we have to make an alibi. Gentlemen, it is true that any government can develop a concept if it has to define it in another way. As explained in Article 37 of the repeal of Article 37 of the Dujet Implementation Act, the Government said that there is no development programme. I quote no development programs. This is what the government says in an explanation of why it abolishes Article 37. The past government has committed itself to speaking here before the Parliament when it comes to budgeting and development programmes this year. This government kicked that article out because it says in reason we don't have development programs. The government that runs this Croatia in the light of the future has no development programmes. Well, when there's no people of our own, let's at least use someone else's. Okay, on the highways we use as much as we use. We cut their budget well 15%. The same on Croatian roads well. We've completely thrown out the railroads. Gentlemen. The railways that are currently at a billion 574 million kuna and past the government is not promising but making a budget that she left this government about which there is a written document, so not that, we promised, but we wrote in the budget that we left, predicted 2 whole one billion, original revenues, revenue from the budget. And plus a billion and 300 million original incomes from the law. So, gentlemen, I remind you of something that will happen to us at the end of the year and then I will remind you of these words. For us, just for the basic functioning of the system, the security of the system requires at least 500 million and billions. Just to prevent accidents in the system. Maintenance and rehabilitation, that's what gentlemen are costing. Let me know something about that, too, because I was the Vice-President of the Council of the Administrative Council of Railways. Oversight. What we are talking about here is the denial of gentlemen from any possibility that our most sensitive and most vulnerable economic metallurgical activities, the activities of machine processing, stand on their feet, and Gredelj, and Djakovic and Končar in areas particularly sensitive when we talk about Djakovic. Renouncing the possibility of obtaining references that will give us a chance to participate in both domestic and competitions, I mention Bulgaria and Romania in particular, which have the same process as the leaders are talking about. We're talking about the situation we're going to be in with this move, not with a delay, but with a move of permanent denial. I wouldn't be spending so much time here if it was a delay. Unfortunately, it's not a delay. It's just that we've already delayed the law and we're still postponing the original income. So unfortunately it's definitely about giving up. That's the problem, if only a delay wouldn't be necessary for all of this. So, if it's really about what I see, then giving up on the original income, on the compensation, on the law, then we're even losing the key thing that's important for stability, for macro-stability. Even for the sovereignty of this country, we lose our chance to have our own domestic carrier. Because in 2006 we are going into liberalisation, the last deadline in 2008 is under the contracts we signed under the international contracts signed by this country, on stability and accession, the market is being liberalised, we do not have a racing company. Not only did someone here talk very well about it, I don't know who, not just for BiH for Corridor 5C but even for home. We're not even able to compete at home. Because simply what we're doing today is bringing the whole story down from 3 and a half billion to a billion and 574 billion and 600 million to a position not only do we not have a development but we don't have a minimum of maintenance. And unfortunately, that's one hard fact that we have to face here. Of course, this is not the least argument nor the fact that we are losing the concreteity of Split and Zadar, surely Split and Zadar are important ports, but here we are losing the key concreteity of Rijeka. It's about rtom. It's about rtom. A key, which has Kopar and Trieste behind its back, and not by my back, I say wrong in front of me. In front of you. War, I don't blame anyone for that, no. We were in a situation we were in, unfortunately. But now that we need to make a move, when we need to make the river concrete and it doesn't seem like a concrete highway, no matter what I run the highway. But it seems to be a concrete railroad in this sense as an onion, we cut the branch on which it sits. So let's all think about it together, I don't think too much of the disciplined HDZ corpus, the decision has been made there, but I'm telling these government-supported MPs, let's think about it, we're taking a serious responsibility that threatens even the sovereignty of the country. Even that. Unfortunately, therefore, the situation in which we find Croatia's credibility collapses in the eyes of the World Bank. We also lose the IB credit lines that were supposed to continue this year on the part that is already being realised, which is from Ploč, should have been realised by five in Slavonic part, in the part of Beli Manastir. This year we had a program that included a total order of approximately 168 million kunas. We're not gonna realize anything. The railway will go without the government's decision yet, but even though the minister has made one statement, Minister Schuker's second. However, I have no doubt it's a misunderstanding, but the track will go, but it won't go 5C. That obviously won't work. The river won't work. So let's be aware of the consequences of what we're talking about here today. So let's all think about it one more time. I understand that every government has its priorities. I respect the government's priorities and obligations to its coalition partners, but let's think again about the minimum that will give us the opportunity to enter tomorrow's good chance race. Let's not cut our chances completely. This law, unfortunately, speaks of a complete cut of odds. We can't, unfortunately, support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7113	Thank you very much. Now we have 12 corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7114	Your Honor, I will only correct two incorrect allegations. One is that I mentioned the money for the service of the foreign debt, which was not even spoken of by Minister Shuker, and indeed Minister Shuker spoke and wrote in the budget. And the second is that by mentioning 6.5 billion spent money, 6.5 billion kuna spent money that the government is looking for an alibi, that's not true. It is true that this statement by the minister of former Cacic is asking for an alibi. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7115	Next is Honorable Representative Zeljko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7116	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. A few incorrect allegations. The first railway programme is most strongly underlined in the HDZ programme, it is incorrect. It is clear that the esteemed colleague did not read the guarantee card he signed in the election campaign, Dr. Sanader's current Prime Minister, and if he had read it then he would have known what was most strongly underlined in the HDZ programme. The second is an incorrect assumption that there are no commitments created in 2004. This is where we heard from the SDP Representatives' Club that there were created obligations that came at the charge in 2004. According to what we're being presented, there are about 3.5 million kunas of liabilities coming in to collect as far as highway construction is concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7117	Thank you very much. Further correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Vladimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7118	Dear Mr. President, the correction of incorrect allegations should be more, but I will correct only one, and it is not true that the government has been more accurately headed by counterpart Cacic did not create financial commitments for this year and for the following year, because here I have one contract on the financing and co-financing of certain projects in the municipal infrastructure where costs have been transferred for this year and for the following financial years, and all for the purpose of local policy, their members in the Krapina-Zagorje County area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7119	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7120	Mr. Cacic is incorrect that this government will not run Croatia in this segment. It is true that the government of Ivica Racan had a large number of ministers, and among them was the most disgruntled one who overstepped in consumption. So you transferred that consumption over the next year, and you spent it, you didn't even ask this House of Commons. So spent, exceeded and to your joy you will manage to slow down a bit, but this government will launch Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7121	Next up is Honorable Representative Branimir Pasecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7122	Mr. Chacic, your whole pathetic tirada is incorrect, and your long reason is for a delay, not for giving up. In a year, you'll be able to ask us if it's giving up or delaying. Only if you're a doorman, so you can figure it out today, is this how it's like a public fissile story.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7123	Dear Representative Milinovic, Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7124	Your Honor. Dear Mr. Cacic, we have been used to hearing your lectures on proper investment and on proper politics for the past four years, so you mention the face-up of Prime Minister Sanader and Racan and the truth is that Prime Minister Sanader said he was not satisfied with investing in the HZ of the past government. And this year this government invests 25% more in HZ than the last government that's one thing, and the other thing we've often heard from you, the mandate of this government takes four years and not one month or two months, or as someone else would like.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7125	Thank you. The correction of the incorrect allegations is the next respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7126	I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative of Cacic. The first is that this government has no development programs. That's not true. This government has development programs. And the other incorrect assumption is that it has been proven that there are no transferred liabilities, but it has been proven to have transferred obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7127	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7128	They are not corrected incorrectly, my incorrect allegations for the simple reason that the contractual liability data here has not been transferred. Thank you. That's two different things.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7129	That's exactly what they were fixing. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because they were correcting it. A Capricorn, a respected representative, a correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7130	It is an incorrect allegation that this government has stopped the development of the "Concar", "Djakovic", and so on. It is your government that, without a direct agreement at a secret cabinet session, has decided to order out fire trucks for 600 million kuna, and when I put it in writing to the Prime Minister, I have never received an answer for what actually happened. That's an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7131	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry, but I didn't really realize what was right in my quote? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7133	Honorable representative of Jure Bitunjac, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7134	Mr. Cacic, speaking of this government, said, quote: "he is ruining this country by carrying out agreed obligations towards the parties that support it as a minority government". On the contrary, HDZ is in the spirit of the best European traditions of relations with national minorities and social partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7135	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Katarina Fuček.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7136	I am correcting the incorrect assumption that the development of railways was the backbone of the HDZ slogan, more specifically, or the programme, Mr. Cacic thought, which his colleague tried to correct. However, I would like to say for public reasons that the main backbone of the HDZ programme was the growth of citizens' standards, which proves and a set of laws that have already entered this House as priorities and which have been discussed, and these are also the priorities of this government and be without worry, that it recognises them and will bear responsibility for it. So you don't really have to worry about it, this government recognizes both the responsibility and the priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7137	The next representative is the respected representative Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7138	I'm correcting Mr. Cacic's guilty allegations that this government has stopped the name... In fact, it was actively reduced to copying the Slovenian model and taking the now proposed 73 limes out of a litre of fuel. [[You don't understand.]] I also thank Mr. Cacic, yes, and he's building a lot, it's down to building, contracts for building apartments without a country and without projects are being signed. And now the question is that we did it in cities and municipalities, I think we'd disband the councils, city councils and municipal councils.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7139	And the correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Luka Bebić, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7140	I am correcting Mr. Cacic's incorrect claim that HDZ is a disciplined corps. If he meant the unit or as a body, I don't know, but in case he meant the unit we're not a Corps but we're about, two waters have us. But we're not a Corps, but we're not even a little foreigner as Mr. Cacic called us in his own time when he himself had two MPs in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7141	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7142	I'm sorry, but I thought, I meant the Corps, 209, Article 209. I meant the Corps in terms of body, body. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7143	Minister Calmeta, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7144	Thank you, Mr. President. A few arguments, first of all, are certainly not true that this government has no development programmes because the ministry that I am headed is planned with 4 and a half billion kuna in this budget. It's mostly all development projects, not to mention other ministries, I'm only talking about my own. And secondly, when we speak of the six-and-a-half billion. The fact is that only when it comes to my ministry is the billions and 100 million kunas spent this year, and the MPs will vote on that billion tomorrow. The MPs will vote on that billion tomorrow. Is that so? It was spent before the Parliament approved, and that's a fact. Let's let it go now, second. The last government issued a billion kuna bonds, of which 760 million were to go on Croatian highways, up to 20.11. The 20.7th seems to me 350 million kuna has been transferred. This government transferred another 160 million kuna before the end of the year, and the remaining 230 million kuna went into consumption last year, and this year funds must be provided because the funds are waiting for highway contractors. That's a fact. Secondly, I said before those billion and a half kuna short-term obligations of the Croatian Railways, which this year should also be provided in the state budget. Not to mention a billion kunas of collective pay raise agreements, etc., etc. So, I mean, if we talk, let's talk about it with arguments. The fact is, these are the obligations to be paid this year. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7145	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. You're too late, colleague Cacic. In individual debate, respected representative Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This short law of only 5 articles seems to have far-reaching consequences for Croatian railways. We are here tonight to discuss whether during the next period we will have Croatian railways or national railways that will partner Europe in developed railways or simply disappear completely. It seems to me that some of the colleagues here don't understand it at all, and that is why I would like to point out that Croatian railways have come out of the war. There's been a lot of damage in the events of war. The number of passenger and freight wagons has been halved. The tow capacity is insufficient, about the railway station not to speak. And that is why we do not forget what the previous Government and the previous assembly of Parliament inherited in the Croatian Railways. We inherited a deficit of 3 billion kuna, of which 700 million kuna with domestic suppliers and 300 million kuna with foreign administrations working with Croatian railways. Let's remember the strikes on the railroad and everything that goes along with it. Therefore, then the government and then the assembly of parliament faced important decisions and we discussed the restructuring of Croatian railways in 2001. If we look at it now, it is quite certain that the Law passed last year goes after Croatian railways to be a strong partner to the European railways, that we have developed infrastructure and I am afraid, I can't just say that I am afraid, but I am almost sure that this is not just a delay, but this is a stop to the process of modernising Croatian railways. Too much has been said here that more Croatian railways have in view of the geostrategic position of the Republic of Croatia. We have three pan-European corridors. The 10th corridor connecting Western Europe with over Zagreb, Vinkovac towards Yugoslavia, i.e. Serbia-Montenegro, continues to the Balkans. We have corridor 5b, it is the corridor that connects Budapest and northern Europe with the port in Rijeka and corridor 5c which is very important because it connects Budapest with the port in Ploča. If we wish well for our ports, I mean not only the sea but also the river ports, for example the port in Vukovar, then it is very important to approach what is possible before modernising not only Croatian railways as businesses but when this Law and what we will call infrastructure and passenger and freight transport that should go into privatisation. Let's not forget that by stopping this process, and those local railways that are inconclusive, will become an even bigger rock around the neck of the Croatian Railways, let's not forget that modernising these master lines with the material that we have there are modernizing and railing of local importance. I am now asking you what will be done and when the inhabitants of Lepoglava, Ivanca or Dovevac will drive quickly towards Varazdin, in this way I am afraid when everything stops or a good part of it stops that we will talk very quickly here about having to close such tracks because they are inert, and they will be inert because from Dovevac to Varazdin travels for an hour and a half. There is no question about the competitiveness of Croatian railways. Let us not forget and it is just saddening that with 25% more money in the budget for the Croatian railways everything that was planned to be made this year will be covered. Let's not forget that signed contracts with Croatian companies are mostly machinery companies to do jobs for Croatian railways. I am not convinced, and let me be reassured by the arguments if 1.4 billion kuna was to be made with these 60 limes then it would mean 25% more budget means that we separate from the Croatian railway budget four times more than that billion and 400 million, that would be 5.6 billion. It seems to me either I can't read the budget, or gentlemen are really set aside for Croatian railways this year in the budget of 5.6 billion kuna. I'm afraid there's not a word about it, and I'm afraid for all those jobs from Slavonski Brod, Vinkovac, Bjelovar, Čakovec, here in Zagreb. When the railways and workers from these companies come to Mark's Square, I ask you what will happen then, because I fear this is insufficient, because let's not forget that money should have gone from the budget to the regular business of the Croatian Railways and these billions and 400 million kunas for modernization. There's been a lot of words here, too, about the Lika Strip. We could also develop corridors differently on our railways but the goal was to reconstruct the Lika railway precisely because our areas of special state concern are developing because there, as the bitters say, are carrying life. It could be made and a new track would only cost 20 billion kuna, at the same time let's not forget that if an international competition with money from abroad has been held for the Lika railway, we must be aware that our companies unfortunately have not passed the international competition. There's been a talk about tilt trains too. The Ministry of Finance has decided to go into direct contract but let us not forget that there are three multinational companies of global importance in Europe dealing with the production of trains and locomotives, this was because of the Croatian railways, because of the timetables, meaning because of the characteristics of trains, because the serial train was therefore lower, because of the characteristics of the train with the consent of the Government, the Ministry of Finance decided to go into direct contract. Let us not forget with reduced investment in the Croatian railways that the same thing that was halved in 2002 in 2003 means the halved loss on the Croatian railways, that because of the less possibility of working Croatian railways, there is a real danger that this loss will be greater, namely that subsidies from the state budget must be greater because we do not forget, Croatian railways still do not have enough capacity to compete with foreign operators when they come here. That's what I'm going to say on a very banal example. The train travels from Varazdin to Zagreb for about two hours, the buses drive for an hour and 15 minutes, in which way the train can be competitive, only to bring the driving time closer, but if we do not invest in railways, if we do not invest in trains, and we often drive by pre-indulgent cars with wooden seats, without air conditioning and everything that you have in the buses from the climate, everything else not to talk about. Therefore, I think that every delay in the modernisation of Croatian railways has a consequence not only of their lagging behind but also of the real possibility, and here we knew what privatisation looks like in Croatian way, I believe that there is a real danger of Croatian railways being drowned or that someone simply drowns cheaply. That is why I, as a representative here directly and ask the question of the Minister, will the Vinkovci and the Senses, a newly built railway that was to be completed this year, also be driving. I'm afraid this way from that railroad nothing, here now let all promises fall into the water. Unfortunately, today, the government's representative on the Committee on Economy did not know whether or not it would be, and I do not think it would be. It seems to me personally that this government is looking for an alibi not to achieve what is needed, because as a representative of this hour, I may be less concerned with the deficit in private and more preserved jobs and I will read what the trade unions tell us, here I will quote: "Why does the European Union encourage investment in the development and modernisation of its railways, i.e. railways in its own countries, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is under a dilemma about how our Croatian railways in silence or shut down or through these laws to leave cheaply to foreigners". It seems to me that during the war people who carried out a good burden of war precisely by working on Croatian railways did not deserve such a procedure because the fact is that Croatian railways and Croatian engineers, Croatian engineers also have the potential and knowledge that they can do everything they need to do to modernise the railways so that we can be competitive and compete for concessions as operators in our neighbouring and other European countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7147	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7148	Mr. President, the distinguished colleague of Korenik cited the incorrect fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing this law to stop the process of development of Croatian railways, it is not true. In fact, the Croatian government is responsible and is responsible for acting in such a difficult and complex economic situation as it inherited it does not want and cannot promise what there is no material basis for, however, what it wants to suspend and that is certain and that is privatisation in the railway, at this point. To be done when it comes to that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7149	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Korenik's representative, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7150	Article 209 was injured because Mr. Shirac did not correct the incorrect assumption but was trying to correct my thinking and my view of it does not seem to be in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7151	It's not true because he corrected your claim that he thinks is incorrect. Honorable representative of the Mato Church, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7152	The extensive debate in this House of Highs on this subject is justified. First because railways are a strategic structural issue that does not determine some short-term issues of Croatia but actually penetrates the core of Croatia's development policy and long-term orientations. And the second government has come to this House on such an important issue with two big, serious proposals, difficult proposals. The first is to give up the source of funding that is crucial for the entire railway modernisation project as it is imagined and not seen in what other way it could be imagined. This, in fact, wanted to admit it whether or not dynamically but in fact, effectively challenges the modernisation programme, especially if they keep in mind intensive railway development processes around us and the standards that are being imposed. Another key key, a key proposal, a serious proposal that we rightly need to think about is the delay of approaching European standards in the Railways, which will make it impossible for the Croatian Railway to work on a wider area, but also within Croatia. These are big questions, and they really need to be discussed. During the past four years, the railway industry has been dealing intensively with the problem. It is very detailed here, but there have been even greater efforts that have been made to improve the current situation in the railway system and to bring about a situation where possible, a possible step that is called modernisation and further development. It is therefore extremely incorrect and non-legislative not to use any other word of the claim that the former Government with this programme... came before the election three months ago to make it some election card of hers. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] During the past four years, she has struggled bloodyly with the problems of Zeljeunica, and for two and more years, this modernisation programme has been created that started with decisions made by the former government. I would like to say why and for what four reasons a decision has been made on the need to go into the modernisation programme and for which four reasons this government should not now question this modernisation programme. The first is, the transport economy explicitly determines that at a given moment as in the Croatian Railways today or yesterday, the only question, the only alternative to the Croatian Railways is to quickly do something of them, modernise them, develop them or simply give them up. At some point, to make it extremely simple, but don't take it literally, it's like having an old car that's cheaper for you to give or leave on the road than to use it further. Therefore, we are the basis of all the findings, the basis of all the findings had to be easily approached by a more determined procedure in the Railways. Either you don't, or it's simple to stop. There's no middle solution. The second reason on top of tourism is in fact the Croatian second key asset in development is the geostrategic position. A service which, in the long chain of ports, traffic, transit and so on and so forth, is realized because of the position that God has given us in this Europe and in the world and the ability to sell this product expensively and well. On top of tourism and this product, some other products are far away. Croatia has not valorised its geostrategic position nearly enough in its development policy so far. That is why it was easy and it happened that the Slovenians made a port out of their sea in front of Kopra, which represents a bar compared to our sea, which took a burden on the port of Rijeka and Croatian ports. It is the geostrategic position of Croatia today and without the modernization program Railways this fact remains. Croatia runs out of Central Europe, runs out of Central Europe, the Adriatic, the world and so on. That's another reason. The third big reason is of course in all these not only developmental effects that the Railway makes on the home plan. There's been enough talk here about all the potential development of the railroad. So from these developments of employment and everything else to the environment we're going to have big problems just by not being able to be a large part of the trains, load the road to loads, as a burden to the railways. And the last reason for our decision to go with the programme of modernisation of the Railways was the maturity of Croatia at that time to approach it. It's just a financial consolidation that's been won over the last four years. The solved problems of inevidence, burning interest rates, increased the domestic potential of Croatia's capital market in Croatia today with incomparable amounts compared to earlier and, of course, to increase our financial position have made it possible to go into such financial structures that were previously unimaginable and to start designing development programmes that have a long-term significance for the state, are feasible, are profitable and are fully profitable and closing. For these reasons, these are huge reasons why it was brought in and it was considered the last time to enter the programme of modernisation of the Railways and for which reason it still needs to try to find ways to continue with the modernisation of the Railways. So much for that. And now I'm just going to add more about this famous transfer of commitments from the earlier period to this year. Ladies and gentlemen, by proposing this law that is here before us, we are actually solving the problem of a billion and four hundred million of these obligations. The former government has made a commitment in this project to achieve a billion and four hundred million funding and that is, that is, the amount that various individuals are collecting in various ways. So this billion four hundred million that are in these sums of these transferred liabilities, as you can see, are not spent money, are not expenditures that have been made. It's, it's, it's, it's been projects and guarantees for this project that, of course, if you give up then there's no such obligation. If it gives up further road construction, there will be no such obligations. It is therefore necessary to take a realistic look at the dimension of the transfer of these commitments, which is within the framework of what is ongoing from year to year and continuity in the achievement of the development programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7153	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7154	Your Honor, Mr. President. For four years, the government of Ivica Racan has been declared incompetent. Four years. Now the able-bodied government of Mr. Sanader has arrived. And what is the first really big move that this government makes? A move that will have repercusions for years and decades across the country? Elimination of an unusually important development project. Why? Why is the government of Eve Sanader doing this? Mr. Chacic said something about the reasons. I totally agree with his analysis. It's a matter of concept whether to develop and invest in the social community means whether to finance the social community from development or to satisfy the social and to ignore development first. The dilemma shouldn't exist. She's being extorted. She has been “de facto” extorted by the relationship in this House. Mr. Sanader's government has no way out. She can't solve this problem differently than she solves it. She's giving up development programs because she's forced to. I can see there's no enthusiasm in that. I see the honourable Minister of Calmeta that you are not convincingly defending this bill. You know he's bad for this country. But you can't do anything else. In this respect you can be understood. But all of Croatia, all its citizens become hostages to these relations. The price will pay them, eventually. This is the most important legislative proposal with the budget that has appeared in this assembly. All those others who showed up are completely irrelevant to this. According to this one that only has five articles. What's the alibi for this? It could be said and honestly, you could say, we have no other way out, we have to give up, regardless of the pre-election promises, regardless of what Mr. Sanader said he would double the amount. Let's let go of our pre-election promises and everything that's been said. An alibi is required to give up development. And that's where these famous 6.5 billion transferred liabilities are found, which is just plain nonsense for two reasons. One, because it's incorrect. But the other one, Mr. Calmeta. Well, if Racan's government had stayed, she'd also have these transferred obligations. And the railroads would continue. The railroads would continue as you start. And that's proof that this is all an alibi. An alibi to reroute development money to other purposes. To pay with it a new coalition relationship. To pay for the support in Parliament. Because without it, there's no support. That's the government's price. And we here today, talking about this bill tonight, talking about the first real sacrifice of these relationships and this government, it's HH. It's not just 15 thousand HZ employees. There are Đuro Djakovic, Končar, Gredelj, tens of thousands of jobs. What will workers and businesses do by stopping this project, what will happen to these jobs? Will they even be able to save themselves? It's all in question. All this comes into question by stopping this important project. The ambitious modernisation project has not been since yesterday, it began since 2003. It planned to invest 15.5 billion kuna in the Croatian railways by 2007, 3 already invested. It's started. It started, and it had to go on. Now under the slogan "Let's Start Croatia" stop this development project. In this way, Croatia is being driven to stop such an important project. Because this delay that you're talking about is, it's really a stop, it could almost be said the word of HH's liquidation. Because look, if we are late in this modernisation there is no way that the remaining time will be enough for the Croatian railways to transform, modernise and compete with the railways around the countries. They fall out, they drop out of that race for all time. The rules of the European Union are coming, and we will have to respect them. And we won't be ready, because we haven't developed a system of these railroads. We'll be driving in compositions 28 years old in unaired trains, we'll be driving in an insecure way, because modernization means increasing HH security. You'll have trouble with the HH unions as well. I don't know how you're gonna solve them. Maybe with unions and Gredelas, and Konachar and Djura Djakovic. But I don't think you're angry, but you're quick and irresponsiblely involved in a decision like this. It was supposed to be an effort. It should have continued with good projects, no matter what the incompetent Racan government started. They should have continued in the interest of the country. Because this price will be too high and I fear that some future government, regardless of all its good will, will no longer be able to correct the mistake that we will make in Parliament tonight by stopping this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7155	Correction of an incorrect quote, a respected representative, Vice President Milinovic Darko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7156	Here are several times we from the Croatian Democratic Community must correct the incorrect allegations that the Government of Ivo Sanader has given up on the Croatian Railway Modernisation Project. Your Honor, you either didn't listen to Minister Calmett or you won't... [[The speaker does not understand because of the announcement]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7157	Also correcting the incorrect allegations, respected representative Vladimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7158	Mr. Milinovic has already corrected it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7159	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Jarnjak, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7160	It is an incorrect allegation that this government has stopped the modernisation of the railways. No, it slowed down a little bit. Among other things, because of over half a billion kuna of guarantees invested in the state guarantee in Viktor Lenac, which unfortunately found himself in such a situation as it is, even brought 500 people into question where they will work. Well, by the way, Victor Lance's slowed down, and that's one little brand that slowed it down.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7161	Minister Calmeta. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7162	The reasons I've been talking about, I'm not going to talk about reasons anymore. But I'm going to say something to the esteemed representative. This law was passed in July last year with the application of 1.1. 2005 and 1.1. In 2004, these 0,60 kunas from oil derivatives. I'm asking one question now. If the last government really held that this was a real project, a possible project, why didn't the government, say, introduce those 0.60 last year, and today we wouldn't, not today we wouldn't have anything to talk about. So, that it was really seriously thought that this was a project that could be financed this year and for the next three years worth 50 billion kuna, 15 billion kuna, there was no reason for the government to pass by but in 1.9 did not introduce 0,60 kunas from oil derivatives and it immediately goes into the restructuring of railways. But first it was waiting for 1.1, and then it shifted to 1.4, and the question of how would the government be if she had stayed and had not acted and how could she behave within everything that I had talked about before?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7163	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7164	Dear Minister Calmeta. You now claim the project is inconclusive. If you believe that he is inexhaustible, then you have given up on him.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7165	You haven't fixed anything, you've made one noble assessment. Honorary representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7166	Mr. President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Before I say a few words about this bill, I would refer to one finding in one of the prime minister's steps where he talks about the debts that this government has encountered, and among other things he says that this is a pay increase under the collective agreement and this is also in this budget statement that we discussed the other day and depicted as a debt. In fact, today's government has the opportunity to re-negotiate and give it up and I don't think you're going to do it because your colleagues here said that the backbone of your program is raising your standard of living. Therefore, it should not be transferred to the former government that it has also negotiated wages and thus affected the improvement of living standards. So, as far as the railroads are concerned, in 2002, we adopted a restructuring program here in the Parliament. The programme was coordinated and financially monitored with the World Bank and contained in it a programme for the care of workers. The programme established 16 new companies that are now on the market, which can also be privatised, which are partly tied to the Croatian railways. The Law on Railways was also passed, which was actually meant to speed up modernisation, restructuring and coordination in every sense of the railway with the European countries' railways. I will give an example here in 1996 for a visit to the Croatian Parliament of the Committee on Economy were colleagues from the Slovenian Committee on Economy. They then showed us their railway development program. They even gave us a network of railways in Slovenia, and they then focused on these strategic directions of the Central European railway towards the port of Koper. So that's something, they've already had a vision of what it's going to be as freight traffic that will be rerouted to railways in the near future. Many European countries already have such projects. There are talk of eco-roads on which only passenger cars or small cargo vehicles will be driven in a boat ride and supply while all freight transport will be transferred to railways. So that's something Croatia should do. And now actually two things change with these amendments to the Law on Railways. The first is to abolish one of the types of funding that is supposed to be made annually by about a billion, a billion, 400 kuna, and it is said to be the extraction of 60 limes per litre of fuel. We've even heard on boards today that this is increasing by the amount of VAT, so it's over 70 June, but we heard today from a representative of our club that was a government programme that proposed this modernization of railways. Therefore, as far as these 60 lipes are concerned, they should also be applied to existing excise duties. It was planned to actually increase the fuel price by 30 lips by then making a little more savings in the budget because one part should go from existing excise duties and one part on the burden of some costs, some expenditure in the budget. I'll say it like this. In this proposal which we will vote tomorrow most likely as it is and suggested we have growth incomes that grow 5.6% above the average growth in dividends alone and only from fuel excise duties and that excise duty is growing around 20%, I think, exactly 20%. But at the same time, we have some expenses that don't grow 7% as average budget expenditure grows. For example, costs for official travel, for intellectual services, unspecified other growing costs. If we increase them by 7% then they're still growing by about half a billion kuna. The Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor, told me here when I discussed the budget that way, the government will reconsider that, and we'll see how we reduce it. It has been reduced by having now been amended by the Government to further increase the expenditure on intellectual services, to further increase the expenditure on official travel on certain items in a way that redistributes some other costs where they decrease and increase precisely these items. So it seems to me that there is still room in the budget for this way of financing Croatian railways not to be abolished. The delay in modernization will actually require greater detachment from the budget. In 2003 we have the original revenues of the railway about 850 million kuna and the release from the budget of a billion and 414 million kuna. If the railways are slower, at a parallel pace they will go into modernisation, then the difference between their original revenues and costs will be increasing and the need for budget separation will be increasing. The application of this law is also delayed for another year, so we are two and a half years delaying the application of this law and this means that we are also delaying the harmonisation of certain transactions, so it can be said with the guidelines of the European Union. In fact, we should start working on the business of separating the infrastructure sector and the transport sector at the beginning of the application of this law. And we're putting it off for another year. We can only guess what the consequences of this will be when our environment is therefore the countries with which we are directly bordering that have gone far beyond in this business. And maybe I should say something like this at my local level. We in Međimurje have a railway that was not an industrial railway as it was in some parts of Croatia but was indeed a railway in the right sense of the word. In Austro-Hungarian, she connected Budapest, Čakovec and the Wallani Bridge. Today 2004, from Čakovec to Zagreb, we need three hours of this railroad. What does this mean for the future, specifically, of this railroad? So, delaying this project also has an impact on that decline in the growth of the social gross product that we are projecting, we are projecting for 2004. It will be even smaller by that logic in 2005. So here I am, joining this debate with my colleague Linic on behalf of the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7167	Thank you. Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7168	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister! Someone here before me said this project wasn't stopped but slowed down. I would say that the trains are already bad and slow driving that thanks to the stop of the investment these trains will definitely stop, so the project has slowed down but our trains and railways will definitely stop after stopping this investment. It's been here a few days when some projects are being talked about and why money in the project budget is being reduced or there's no money for projects talking about how 6 billion debt was left behind. So, no matter what, 6 billion less, more, a billion and a half, or whatever, the fact is that you're still a very large asset, you've made a considerable amount of funding from the budget for your pre-election promises. And that you've been acting like a Santa Claus who's promised a lot of rights and for you, every right carries its own financial, therefore, its financial size in the budget. The Racan government could behave the same way. And we could give big funds in consumption, we could increase a lot of rights, we could give money to Croatian citizens who would go here exclusively in consumption. But it's something that's short of time, short of breath. And neither the citizens nor the Republic of Croatia are doing any good. So this is something that looks so good in the short term, it is very acceptable for citizens to get some rights and some financial gain, but unfortunately neither for them nor for the Republic of Croatia in the long term it is not good. Without investment in infrastructure, without investment in Croatia's development or the budget we have today will not be able to hold for long. Those who spoke about the HDZ government's efforts to raise the standard of citizens must also know that there is no raising of citizens' standards without investing in Croatia's development, it simply does not work without each other. The fact is that in 2000 we inherited Croatian railways with, in a very difficult state, preventatively in a financial difficult state. Railways, which have been strikes for weeks and months and have not succeeded here in this 3.5, 4 years in this HH, so, a kind of social peace, we have managed to invest certain financial resources, we have managed to launch some projects so that HH could be competitive in 2006 in certain international competitions. I'm simply not sure that after all this, after the energy and resources invested, there should be a step back somewhere. I don't think it will be easy for this government either if the same topics are reopened, the same problems in the Croatian Railways, therefore, and strikes and all of what we had, and if the development of the Croatian Railways stops, it is something that is very likely. We were also going into something that was not very popular but was needed by Croatian railways, it was in rationalization of the number of people who worked in Croatian railways, so there were too many people, 6 thousand people were reduced, they were not fired but were therefore formed companies where they are now working. So there was another way to find something that could therefore be found, which can work on the market and thus relieve Croatia's railways of too many employees. It is also important to take account of the responsibility for the loss, therefore, of all those companies that are related to this Croatian Railway project that will lose their jobs and therefore, there should be a very responsible and see if these investments are paid to stop, whether, perhaps, by the system that my colleague Zgrebec said earlier, it is possible to find, however, some funds in the budget and continue to avoid all that could result, therefore, of stopping investments. As for those who have spoken about the fact that 60 limes from oil derivatives are something that is a very heavy burden for Croatian citizens and that they should ask Croatian citizens if they want to do so and whether they are willing to isolate it. So here's the vice president, the former Deputy Prime Minister here said it was actually about 30 limes that would be separated from the oil derivatives. And I think in Croatia anyone who wants good to Croatia as a country in which he lives will not be a problem to single out those 30 limes. Because these 30 lipes don't go into consumption, they don't go into someone's private pocket, they go simply into the development of Croatian railways, into the development of Croatia. And finally, just one thing, I don't mind that in any way, with any of the mechanisms that the state has determined whether there were any irregularities, whether there were any illegalities in everything that has been done so far in the Croatian Railways. However, I fear it is a bad message when on the one hand, the Croatian government stops investment in Croatian railways and sends USKOK, so instead of investment, it is USKOK and I think it is very difficult to expect from members of the administration in such an environment that they are responsible for their work and I think in conditions in which it is really not easy to work. So, here's all I said, I said in the best of terms that this government is somewhere reducing the possibility that really Croatian railways, i.e. to you, are opening up as a very big problem Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7169	Thank you. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7170	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. All of us Dalmatian, or Zagreb students from Dalmatia were not only emotionally but also life-related to the Split-Zagreb railway, ferate, train, however you wish, for the Marian Express, he remained and, later, there was a good column in the Free Dalmatia written by the journalist Žuteli. Marian Express was a symbol, a concept, which in some ways at the time may have meant most by connecting there, south and this part of Croatia. And it was really not possible to imagine at all in this campaign by any political option to question something called the modernisation of Croatian railways. And I think that we have all experienced, therefore, a highway project, a project to modernise the Croatian railways as the two largest projects in Croatia that would largely defacto me equate in importance. Some may not see it, but it is really impossible to talk about the Adriatic orientation, it is impossible to talk about the development of the coastal part of Croatia, and I would say that Croatia is a Mediterranean country. Mr. Calmett, who is also from Zadar, knows that. So that is the greatest advantage for me for Croatia as we are the Mediterranean country. The concept of railway development, I assure you, is as important as the concept of development and completion of the highway from Dubrovnik, via Split, Zadar, etc. to Zagreb. And that's why it didn't really come to light. Neither Mr. Sanader nor any of you. In your performances, we had ours as a party, you from Split so I don't know where you were talking about Dalmatia, it's never forgotten here, my colleague Shakespeare was speaking in a symbolic way then, it doesn't matter a little bit different but the Fermat was the same to say the main story in that story that was then, it was about Europe etc. But, therefore, the subconscious ferate was there at your meeting was in Split. I mean, I'm telling the truth now that I was surprised when it came to question, it was still questionable. We can say what we want today, the minister has made it clear that we are not giving up on the modernisation of Croatian railways, which is what the HDZ MPs have said over and over again, but we are delaying. That's just the thing about the ferry, it's postponing the trip, la, la, la, late train for four days, 400 years. Vanka's not even a second late.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7171	I'm asking you now to do a fellow Opačić, every moment looks like you're waving your hand at her, you understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7172	No, she's used to it, she avoids it. They won't, they won't, we're watching her. So, that delay in one vocabulary to say so feratier,... It is those who travel when they hear that they are delayed by sweat. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Some people are already calling a woman what's gonna happen for dinner. I'll be back when this starts. I'm afraid it's not just a one-year stand-up, but I have to admit that there have been far-fetched statements. I would ask you, then you will have, surely you will turn to us. And about this towards Split or Split Zagreb, because there were also contradictions, this with Rijeka they will ask God when. We still have a chance but there were also contradictory statements. Mr. Schucker, as Minister of Finance, has undoubtedly questioned that. It's clear to me. I asked him and then I asked him because I heard you on TV at 7.30 when you said it wasn't a question, but I don't think it comes to six months. That's what this is about. So of 6 months Zagreb Split 4 hours 55 minutes. I repeat that question whether you remain on that promise and those claims. I mean, I'm asking that now because this and some public commitment is a normal thing not only to us here but to the Croatian public. So really stopping this concept of developing the modernization of the railroad was not a sign of it. Regardless of Mr. Sanader's saying what should still be invested so much further, as much investment is now not being invested. But it didn't make any sense. So don't be surprised we're telling the opposition that they've come to collect some other stuff. Which are in your hierarchy of values or by the logic of party necessity I don't know what, more importantly. And they just don't go anywhere else. Which is whether it's a promise to a parent or not, I'm not getting into it at all. But the Croatian public and citizens will appreciate it. To assess this because this great procedure for me really shouldn't have stopped. I will tie it to what is now happening in the Croatian Railways because we are witnesses not only to stop this project. It's delayed. It is that they are stopped, which I think is the most important thing that I do not know if you will agree, but one successful operation of a successful Croatian railway administration is also being stopped. I don't know how it's gonna go on. But the fact that all of this came together, heavy accusations were dropped. To me I think that, I think it would be better if the prime minister of anyone he was, until yesterday, the Hansel of Racan was charged fiercely when he gave his opinion after the verdicts had been made. When we look back on it. You remember. Now we've been able to hear the Prime Minister. Before the guilt was determined, if he had it, he did say maybe. But in the prime minister's main diary, he says, with such a vocabulary, where, I have a feeling that the exercised power and how, the first man of executive authority, and how he now creates an environment, a climate and we live where we live, let's not fool ourselves. It affects the formation of one ambience, political, human, valuable, whatever you want. The defacto on the defendant's bench has already been installed by one team. And this team that's been very successful since the 90th, and it's done what it's done here, 15 thousand workers have gone there 6000 to three other companies that are working. The railroads have developed, no matter what they tell me about debts not debts. These railways that are scribbled everywhere in transition countries where this is one big problem have been put on their feet and have indeed gone on the timetable and traveled and towards that last stop. I think it's wrong because then it's a political condemnation of someone. before the court or anyone else in charge established anything. We've heard from some colleagues, three countries, Germany Italy, Spain knows that, they've offered their three great producers. They offered their types of trains that were somehow consistent with that tilt train to the next rail. It has been decided for German without competition because these technologies impose only on such types of trains and this particular producer is aware of this and it is likely that everything will be determined, making the cheapest offer. But I think Mr. Sanader if he wanted to be able to as a citizen report it. So let someone look into what I know who. Let him and he owe it when the doubt says Ingrid. But indeed in the main journal, so people in my main journal watch 2 million adults in Croatia. It's creating a public change. After putting it on the retirement bench of people who did a huge job. At least that's what I think, at least I think who I think. And I think you've questioned a successful business. So how much must we delay this modernization successful business outside no one living normally will under such conditions sword over major threats and political convictions because executive power is saying something before court will not work under these conditions. That's my opinion. And I think it's bad, that nobody needs it. Well, there's no doubt that it's the interest of all of us here who got to sit down so everyone would like to go to the railroad tomorrow. Well, that's clear, this is all about why it's not going now, and what's going on here. Our assessment is that there hasn't been a shift, it's come through the democratic path, you've got most of it to end it. Too bad he didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7173	Thank you, dear colleague Jurevic. Just one piece of information to my colleagues. The time of debate has come when the red light begins to blink. Not when it works. So let's be clear. Correction of the incorrect alleged vice president of the House, respected counterpart Milonovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7174	Honorable representative Jurjevic mentioned that Prime Minister Sanader had put someone on the defendant's club or accused them of not responding to the truth in advance. He just said he'd establish a factual state. And that can't be compared to the statement by former Prime Minister Racan, we say in the case of Our Lady's spectacular detention when he said, that day in Gospić, criminals and war criminals were arrested, which was later found not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7175	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Correction of the incorrect quote by a colleague Markovinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7176	My colleagues, Jurovic. His statement is incorrect that it is political condemnation. We believe trains were to be purchased through competitions as we all have to go through over 20 thousand kunas through competitions. The political conviction was in 2000 when the mayors and mayors of HDZ received calls in the middle of the night and were brought in for intelligence talks. SDP's signature in convictions everywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7177	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of my dear colleague, Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7178	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so listen to a lot of things being said, but it seems to me that the bill by my court has come unprepared so that the Parliament can properly determine the dilemmas that have been brought here. There's something I can't understand. The government says progarm and project are good and the day does not give up on the project. The government's only saying it's postponing the project. In other words, all the analysis confirms that the project is good. But the government doesn't say why he's giving up, and if he's giving up what the consequences are, then he's not giving up the O.K. If it delays what the consequences are. What are the consequences if he postpones? What are they made up of? What do we decide? What does the Parliament decide? Will it continue the dynamics of the Croatian Railway Modernisation Project and compliance with European Union standards or will it delay the project? What's the consequence of the delay? Will that go to our competition, say, for the ports? Are we going to let us develop on the basis of this project that they say is good, easier to compete with? Is that our responsibility? What are these analyses that we are given that a project to modernise the Croatian Railways can be delayed that there will be no consequences in ports, no ecologicality, no accession to the European Union, no building standards, no social sphere. So many here have already said that the railroad has can be told the spine in the part of the economy, that at least a few companies are very important. I'm not going to mention names, but they're talking about 15 grand workers. Fifteen thousand workers. If we ignore that too, why should the right to tell this Parliament that we will not have Croatian railways at European Union level in 2007? That's what we're offered. That the port of Rijeka will lag behind because the slave does not arrive on time or safely. Will Split port lag behind because of this? We can look at it in a third way. Will the insiders come to the sea with cars or will they take the railroad? It is indisputable that the railway is, therefore, a cheaper transport, more acceptable. We have no right just to decide on the basis of a volunteer proposal. We have no right to do that. This is an investment that can be paid for not one year, not two years, not three years, 20 years. For this investment, they have absolutely certainly our friendly countries and all European countries because Croatia will be a member of the European Union whether we want it or not. The sooner we build the standard, the sooner we become competitors, the more acceptable we will be to the European Union and our workers will be more competitive in the European Union. At least I wish there was a study on the cost-effectiveness of ending this project and the time that it is, the optimal time to say so, to end the investment. There's nothing to explain the material. I'm not prone to any fears, but I have to say that the press asked me if Mr. Leko could be the reason that some parts or some legally accompanying economic operators will be privatized when the railroad is economically invaluable. So let's not close our eyes. We know what privatisation was done in Croatia. We know how privatisation was done. First it's bad, bad, it's going down, then it's going down, then it's going down. I can't believe it's going to be, but let's not lose sight of citizens knowing what was going on and how privatisation was done no matter what the government was, when privatisation started and what consequences it had. The consequences are that it was a loss of millions of jobs. We lost a million jobs in privatisation. As a result, colleagues and colleagues will decide whether to increase the price of 0,30 kuna or 0,60 kuna per litre of fuel, 0,30 kuna cannot be based on will-not. It has consequences and economic resonance, financial and economic resonance, but most importantly it has a developmental resonance and we have no right in the name of future generations to cut the branch on which they will sit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7179	Thank you, dear colleague Leko. It's a replica of my colleague Pasecky. Here you go. ... You picked up a tile because I... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, then you played with her. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. It's my dear colleague Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7180	... I'd say it's good that we're here tonight discussing the railroad, modernising the railways, and I'm sorry that it doesn't broadcast television because the railways would certainly be happy, because rarely when the railway problem was being debated at such a high house, and I'm glad that we all agree here tonight that the modernization of the railroad is necessary, but everyone has a concept. [[Specially enabled.]] The opposition has the concept that the modernisation of the railway should go faster with the burden of Croatian citizens, with the introduction of 0.73 lime per litre of gasoline. The position of the Croatian Democratic Community with its coalition partners has a program to go to the modernisation of railways and that is our pre-election promise. We don't even give up on that. I also have to say that we didn't know about the financial bankruptcy of the state, for the 6.5 billion kuna commitments that are due this year for the 22 billion commitments that come in the next period. The Law on the Croatian Railways brought this House to 17.7 last year, it was renovated in "The People's News" 30.7. And I am truly surprised that the government did not apply that law then from 1.8., so you then delayed the law for a year and a half, and we are now temporarily postponing it for only a year, so in that part of the law you have delayed in most parts. The then government is making a decision on borrowing investment in 15 billion kuna Croatian railways. I must say here that the Law on Railways Article 29 says I will try to read it a little bit: "Plans of building a new and modernising and maintaining existing railway infrastructure is determined by the national railway infrastructure programme, in the following text: national programme." Point 2. "The national programme at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia brings the Croatian Parliament for a period of five years." As far as I know, and I am informed by the Government, that the Croatian Parliament did not receive such a proposal from the Croatian Government's national development programme, and I am interested in the basis of which a decision was made on 15 billion kuna investment was made without the MPs of this House. I think that's inappropriate. But still, I, as a railwayman, have been supporting the modernisation of the railroad for 30 years. I know what state the railways are in, and I know what condition the railways are in in other European countries and in our neighbouring countries. I also support the modernisation of the Lika railway. That railroad goes right through my place. But the truth is, tonight a lot of parliamentary MPs have tied up, so the modernisation of the Lika railway, so if the modernisation of the railway stops, the economy stops, Đuro Đakovic stops, Janko Gredelj will not work. My lords, the truth works for the main holder of the Lika railway reconstruction is the Austrian firm Fitelski. In the 100% export tracks for reconstruction and modernisation of the Lika railway are obtained from the Czech Republic. The majority of the Lika railway reconstruction thresholds are obtained from Hungary. Stone, a stone that is accompanied by a hack Croatian product in the reconstruction of the Lika railway Croatia, the Croatian railways export the Croatian stone paper and import it again. If you don't believe me, I'll bring the customs declarations. So we export the Croatian stone and import it again. I heard that's what the Croatian state earns. If he earns, I think it is illegal and inappropriate for the company to own the state, that the Croatian government violates customs regulations. Also, if a national programme of the Croatian Railways was adopted, I believe there would be more modernisation on the Lika railway, so that there would be more coordination. I'm asking you, the bending trains we took in Germany without competition from the Bombardiers company that are supposed to drive on June 15th, responsiblely here I claim, 4 hours and 25 minutes will only drive that day and never again. Never again, gentlemen, because 160 kilometers on the track from Zagreb to Split when road crossings are unsecured, when bridges are not adjusted for that speed, when the cuts are not adjusted for that speed, it is only a phrase. What a modern railroad it is when we drive 160 kilometers and then the engineer has a warrant to stop in a mile 42, 2 because the road crossing is unsecured. And then the detour comes from station B on the bike, secure the road crossing, release the tractor, and then we move on at 100 miles. Such is the modernisation of our Croatian railways. Uncoordinated. Totally uncoordinated between the Croatian Railways and the companies of the daughters of the company earning very, very much. Because a regional director told me when I saw the budget, the cost of rebuilding one block of the house, 240 thousand kuna, so I asked him, well, Jose, 240 thousand kuna for the house two times two. So is that possible? You know, the railroad gives 40, 50% more to our daughters companies because we'll go to privatisation later and be ready for the market. Is that respect for the law on the supply of goods and services? Also, if a national programme on railway reconstruction was adopted, it would surely be a priority for the river route, corridor 5B, from Koprivnica to Rijeka. We all know how many ports Rijeka worked, how much grossly that mile carried a day. Mr. Linic knows that, 22,000 tons. Today Rijeka, the Rijeka train house has 11 correct locomotives and no electric train. There's a system pulling 3,000 kilowatts. We're here to Moravia to drive 25,000 kilowatts. So we're one of the few states that we have two systems in our country. I think it is also a priority to invest in the programme of national reconstruction of the railways to restructure whether the extension of the monophase system to Rijeka, whether to purchase a locomotive of the same-way system. In my opinion, personally as a railway car, it would be best to get 20 locomotives, and I see that's what the engineer's union is proposing. More voltage, more system locomotives that would be ready when Croatia enters the European Union and enters the global transport of the European Union, and that is certainly our goal. With this kind of transport in Doba or in Shapjana or in Rijeka, we will be driven by Slovenians, not us. No matter what, I support this Law, support the reconstruction and reconstruction of the Croatian Railways. I suggest that this House commits the Government to adopt, within one period of time, what is passed by law, the national restructuring programme of the Croatian Railways so that, after the adoption of a national programme by this House, we can see how much funding is available in the state budget for restructuring, if we do not have to go to what the former Government has proposed, so that is also the burden of citizens. What amount you'll see it in and what's on a liter of gasoline. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7181	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Now we have a few replicas first and then corrections to an incorrect quote. First replica, colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7182	My colleague kept mentioning 60 limes, the burden on the citizens for fuel. It's incorrect. The government in the previous meeting, the coalition government of Ivica Racan, has drawn up projections. The increase in fuel prices by 30 June and 30 June the reduction in the revenues of the state budget from excise duties. And that's 60 limes. 60 limes without which the railway without direct income will not be able to live or function. And it won't be possible to make any investment in railway reconstruction. Real revenues will no longer be discussed in this House because these are ways that bankers will be convinced that it is a safe inflow in the Croatian railways. For reasons that state support is always a minimum of 150% compared to its own revenues. And if we go into investment then it's going to be more than twice the regular rail income. It is then the responsibility of all of us to create real, real, recognizable sources that the financiers who provide loans and recognize and make sure that there are no more doubts that a government will reduce, abolish, extend the budgets of Croatian railways. This is why it is necessary to stay with 60 Lips, why 30 Lips and is not a problem because the price of gasoline and fuel in Croatia is still competitive compared to our environment and our neighbours. And those 30 limes could take any citizen, especially what it means to develop and not just the railroad, but our balance of payments, improving our industry...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7183	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7184	Well, I might believe Mr. Linic that the government, if she had stayed in power, meant it to be 30 kuna. 30 limes, excuse me. [[Intruder: 30 Lips.]] But I'll read what's holy letter to me, and that's the law. It says: "the financing of railway infrastructure, Article 31, sources of funding for railway infrastructure". Under paragraph 2, "the assets of the sale of the price of petroleum products amounting to HRK 0,60 per litre for the maintenance of the railway infrastructure." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7185	Thank you very much. Replica, there's a colleague named Zgrebec. Slowly, there will be corrections to the incorrect allegations later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7186	Today we've heard not only about six and a half billion kuna, but that the state is going to go bankrupt as well. My colleague, it seems to me, you have a very low regard for Croatia if you think that's why it's going to go bankrupt. And in the 2004 Budget projection, we have a new $3.6 billion loan, so imagine who would give it to the country in bankruptcy another $3.6 billion new loan and a new debt. And as for what you're reading, that's true, so we now have in the budget a excise charge that I don't know how much, so it's not talking about an increase in prices talking about the amount that's being charged from excise duties, the price of fuel, and now the excise charge that's more than 0,60 lira.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7187	Thank you very much. Now we move on to correcting incorrect allegations, first fellow Linic has a correction to the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7188	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a national programme. The adoption of the 2003 railway programme is a national programme, confirmed by the Government, so it was not enough for the government to send it to the Croatian Parliament, so I am correcting the incorrect assumption that this Parliament was not engaged in the railway. In the 5th month and the strategy of transport and the medium-term railway programme and the issue of subsidisation and even in accordance with the Law on Railways with European norms in the last year alone means we have one and we have a debate in the Croatian House.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7189	Thank you, dear colleague Linic. Correction of the incorrect quote by colleague Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7190	My colleague Linic fixed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7191	A colleague of Linic has another correction to the incorrect allegations, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7192	I repeat that in the replica...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7193	I pray for a thorough exposure to replication, and when replying to the replica, there was also a correction to the incorrect quote, see what is happening.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7194	In the replica, my colleague pointed out that 60 lips in the law meant 60 lips in price hikes. That's incorrect. 60 limes in the law means that one part can reduce the revenues of the state budget with another part to increase the price of fuel on projections when it comes to the Law on Railways, you have precisely these elaborates. And I just remind you when it went to the road, there was one kuna on the roads, one part an increase, and the other part a reduction in revenues in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7195	Thank you very much, dear colleagues. We're continuing the debate. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please be my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7196	You have injured the Rules of Procedure in Article 209 which states that the agent can correct the incorrect allegations and respond to the submission of the replica only once and to the basic exposure. Therefore, you have injured the Rules of Procedure when you have for the second time corrected the incorrect allegations I ask you not to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7197	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much. Thank you very much, very much, very much, It's time for my colleague, Zvonimir Mršić, to discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7198	Thank you very much. I will ask all of us a question when we last rode the train, when we last ordered Croatian railways to carry us a burden, and we know at all what we are talking about today or what the newspapers are writing, what the trade unions write, what we have some idea of what we think Croatian railways should be or could be. Do we even know what cars are like, do we know who's using the railway, do we know how long the Croatian railway on the average is late, do we know how much the ticket costs from one stock to another. I use the railroad from time to time, and this is used by the railway on the most profitable railway track in Croatia, it is the Koprivnica-Križevci-Vrbovec-Long Village-Zagreb railroad. Road transport is mostly privatised by the state no longer has its own interests, but the railway is still in state hands and therefore there is the state's responsibility to the citizens of Croatia for what is happening in the Croatian railways because Croatian citizens annually subsidise the Croatian railway from their tax duties. The Croatian state must also provide Croatian citizens with the expected and desired level of service of the Croatian Railways. I have here to say the most affected by the delay in the modernisation of Croatian railways because almost half the amount of these 15 billion kunas should have been invested in the second constituency. It was supposed to start this spring with the construction of the Gradec railway, St. Ivan Žabno, Bjelovar, where Croatian railways have invested about 7 million kunas so far, land has been purchased, there is a project, construction permit has been issued and dynamics made in a two-year project this year to build buildings and next year to bring these facilities together. Today we heard that the passengers on the Zagreb-Split section will be, and I think it's about 400 km 30. 5. drive in 4 hours and 50 minutes, I welcome it that the Croatian government has issued a guarantee or will issue a guarantee when a budget is adopted for 70m euros of credit to restore the face of the railway, but at the same time today, but also on June 1st, the passengers from Bjelovar will cross 90km and it will take them two hours and they will have to cross mainly because only twice a day I think there will be a direct train. Direct train Belovar-Zagreb. It is about 90 km, it is about the almost suburban settlement of Zagreb, and it is about a city where we have a large number of daily migrants, people who do not have the opportunity to work in Bjelovar, but have searched, followed by bread and work in Zagreb and it is about a large number of students. It's a train that the town of Bjelovar, and Bjelovar-Bilogor County are significantly subsidized and I think the line is one of the most profitable. Equally this year was to continue the remonting of the Križevci-Koprivnica railways, obviously it is slowing or delaying, or it should have started with the construction of the second railway line of the long village-Vrbovec and continued towards Koprivnica, the railway that was made in 1856 and which was one of the important then infrastructure and economic projects of Croatia, which enabled the development of both Koprivnica and Križevci and Vrbovac and part of Zagreb, and certainly after the port of Rijeka and Rijeka. Unfortunately, it also slows down. Do these passengers from Bjelovar and Koprivnica and these cities I spoke of have an alternative? No, because you don't have a road. You do not have a road from Bjelovar to Vrbovac, you do not have a road from Koprivnica to Vrbovac and you do not know when it will be because, unfortunately, only 5 million kunas are planned in Croatian roads this year to continue the fast road Greda-Gradac and it is almost uncertain what will be in the project in 2005, 2009 when this fast road should reach the Hungarian border or Virovitica. If that alternative could be said okay, we're not going to the railroad, we're going on a road that's certainly unacceptable. The road transporters from Koprivnica and there are many, because the economy is strong and has a lot of exports, go to Maribor and wait for two to three days to board the wagons and thus cross Austria because there are not enough permits to cross, or trucks are not a satisfactory standard for driving in such a frequency. And now I wonder why we are being punished for delaying a project that was supposed to mean infrastructure development or creating a presumption of infrastructure. We will neither get a road in the term of office of this government nor get a railroad in the term of office of this government. And I said when there was a debate on the budget of the Koprivnica-Kristevina County, where over two billion kunas of tax revenues are collected annually, where less than 800,000 kuna of tax revenues are returned. Over a billion and two hundred million a year, so it stands out for the central state and is redistributed to other cities. Today there have been discussions about what will happen with jobs in Slavonski Brod, Kutina, Čakovac, Zagreb. I wonder what will happen to the jobs in Koprivnica? Croatian railways were the third employer in Koprivnica after Podravka and Bilicalnik and we expected much from the modernisation of Railways because we believed it would allow for new jobs. A large number of young people from Koprivnica study at the Faculty of Transport expecting to be able to work on Croatian railways because their parents worked on Croatian railways and they are railways. They wanted it to be again. Now the question is whether the project has slowed down or dropped. Today, the minister said several times that even the former government did not believe in the project and that it probably did not, would not have spent it. So now the question arises whether this government believes in the project, only slows it down or the government fully redefines the project. It would be much easier for us to talk today, and to decide that the Government, with the Budget, has given projections for 3 years, which is a legal obligation, but it certainly gave us a projection along with this Law, which means slowing down the modernisation of Croatian railways. Whether it will be in 5 years, in 7 years, in 10 years or modernization of Croatian railways means that some projects will give up. Then, with much easier, with much more arguments, we could talk about it, and perhaps it would be good for Minister Calmeta in his final address to really answer the question, first of all, about my electoral unit, because tomorrow I have to explain to the citizens in my electoral unit what is going to happen and in which, in which, what dynamics, but also in these other projects. And finally I suggest that there is still time for all the money that is planned in the State budget to buy new cars to be refurbished to the Croatian railways, and that all those who thought to drive these new cars are driven by Croatian railways. That would make sense. Croatian railways are owned by the Croatian state and so is the government. Therefore, there is no reason for ministers, state secretaries, not to drive Croatian railways. They would burn in on the roads, burn in cars and help Croatian railways. And if it were then, certainly not this project would be slowed down, but this project would be dynamic. And finally, I'm glad that colleague Vukic was the only one of us most professionally discussed here in the Railways Assembly because he's a railwayman, but I believe that all of his arguments are in favour of the fact that this project needs to be slowed down.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7199	Thank you very much, dear colleague Mršić. It is up to correct the incorrect quote of counterpart Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7200	Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct Mršić's allegations that there are no roads from Bjelovar to Zagreb, I must assure him that he is coming from Virovitica to Zagreb in an hour and 40 minutes and that roads exist. There's more bypasses to connect, so it'll be faster to get there. I have to convince him that the rentability of the Bjelovar-Kloštar Podravski railroad is totally inconclusive, and it is invested in money and money.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7201	Please don't throw it out of the bench. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague of Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7202	I've picked up the line, but it's a little longer than I thought, the truth is, I'm... Then the truth only works to keep it in writing. [[Intruder: Here you are with the replica if you want.]] This way, if the government had passed, or if the governments had implemented the plans, the other would not have talked to me today about two of these projects Mršić listed and from the same county, at all. So if it's about St. Then I care more than he does because I live in St. John's Landing. Ivana Frogno, therefore, to that railroad, and it was to be built according to all plans by 2003, and the shovel was not buried, and I hope that our government will build this railroad. We have plenty of time in office to realize it. So, as far as the fast road is concerned, it is also true that since 1999, I do not know whether the government, county or someone has not taken over these projects and has not taken over from the Croatian Geodetic Administration the aurophotogarmetic footage for which 100 and several thousand kunas were to be paid. So it hasn't been done in almost five years or five years or so, and I'm glad these projects are back on track and will work on them. So it's not true that nothing will be done. And as for the Railways, I'm driving them too, and I care very much, and the first card that came to me when I became elected representative has just arrived from the Trade Unions of Croatian Engineers and I have to tell the truth about it. So I understand and support the government's position, which in time will be a little longer than it was estimated, and perhaps a few months later, by asking those who have done so before, and not by accusing me of not reporting for a correction of a difficult quote, that only some questions have been asked which someone will have to answer. Whether these questions are difficult or easy to show will mean the future. Therefore, Mr Mršić and I are from that constituency and I am from that county and I am trying and perhaps more than you are to have these two projects implemented and will be implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7203	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7204	Well, first of all, fellow Justice-Thrakostane, you don't know how much I care about the citizens of St. Ivana Frogly can be driven by train. That is, how much you and what you think you keep to yourself. So don't interpret who cares more. Don't interpret it, let it interpret everyone for itself and get or not get the voter's trust. That's one thing. Secondly, all the governments of the Republic of Croatia are my governments, not just yours. There is not your government and our government but there is a Government of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore this Government is also my Government is whether or not, and it does not matter now who is working harder on what it is. We'll see about that in the end and tomorrow how we'll raise our hands for the amendments. I haven't seen much of your amendments for our constituency, and we'll see how tomorrow someone will work around, who's working on the amendment, and four years are a very short period and we'll see what anyone will do for their constituency. And otherwise, from Virovitica to Zagreb, you need an hour and a half, as well as 7 points.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7205	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the debate. It is on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected colleague, Slavko Linic, for the last 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7206	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to point out on behalf of the Club another fact. Railways have another competition. It's called the road. With the construction of roads, the railway will lose most of the passenger traffic. Most of it. A two-year delay means that the road will take over most of the passengers and that at that time the railways in Croatian market positions will lose the fight. Returning passengers after two years will be very difficult, and that is what we also want to point out that the railway will drop revenue, the revenue will drop, and that moment the subsidies from the state budget will be even higher. I want to make it very clear that the facts are true, that a billion and 400 kuna loans have been taken. This year, there will be 500 to 800 million missing for regular railway activities, railway subsidies and certain investment activities that the government has foreseen. That money will be missing in the railroad, and the money foreseen for the railroads isn't enough. And now I come to what's most important, which, on behalf of the club, I still want to encourage once more. You see, part of us in the last meeting got an IMF servant's label. But you've never heard of Mr. Hansel Racan's government calling for something the IMF requires of us. No, I don't. Reforms and labour legislation, social reforms, reforms that we also had in the budget and spending were government reforms. And we've never tried to protect ourselves from asking the IMF. But by confirming that policy, the IMF has made it possible to create a financial market in Croatia, and credits that allow even investment in railways. Because investment in the railroad isn't worth less than 40 years, under 40 years. But we have just made it possible for Croatia's financial market and financial position to invest. The problem of investment in Croatian railways is not lack of money, it has it. By ensuring the revenue that we offer, which is 60 kuna from the price of fuel, I apologize to 60 limes that do not have to mean a full increase in prices, would mean securing the project. The problem of the Croatian Railways and the investment is a possible observation by the IMF to raise the deficit. That's what's causing the deficit. The IMF wasn't even for roads, and it wasn't for us to build a road for Split in three years and go fast towards Rijeka. and continue in the other directions and program that is given for Croatian roads. He didn't take it. But you didn't hear us say you couldn't. He accepted it in the end. And he gave his confirmation. The Croatian government's job is to understand that the railway has money, income can be secured, and the problem of the deficit is the problem of negotiations between the Croatian government and the IMF. and the IMF is not the one who can dictate development. Because at that moment, we can wonder whether it will be the Austrian, German, Swiss railways in Croatia and whether we will be the only ones who will have to arrange the infrastructure for them to have the right to a concession ride around Croatia. And that's why we have to have our own policy, and why the government has to fight for development and even fight with the IMF. We did it when it came to roads, we propose that the Croatian government elections the development of railways, because there is money, and we can invest them in Croatian railways. And we have capable people, and we have a profession that can carry out both the restructuring and reconstruction of Croatian railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7207	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Honored Vice-President of the House, Mr Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The problem of modernising the railways cannot be spoken in isolation as if it were a problem for itself and does not enter into any other problem. Let's just say we listened to a debate full of cynicisms. I claim full cynicism from those who spent 8% of the state budget in advance for this year. And so much has been reduced the government's maneuvering ability to balance this budget for this year, and so probably one part of it would fall to the railways. That's a fact. Secondly, billions of those 8% or twelve national budgets were illegally spent, since not one large part of that debt was granted consent and confirmation in the Croatian Parliament. In addition, when assessing our opportunities and modernising railways, one more time should be said for those who forget easily, that Croatia owes 16.8 billion kuna this year plus 5 billion interest, which is somewhere around 22 billion and plus these 6.5 billion that have spent advances on those who are now giving us a lesson that we should and should do. They made it impossible for us to do much of what we wanted to do, and by redistributing certain items in the state budget to better address issues, including the modernisation of railways. You can't spend 6.5 billion kuna this year, because it's been spent in advance. They were spent in advance, by a great builder, and a great bankruptcy expert. They've spent these money, and they're, of course, giving us the best lessons, the greatest lessons. They treat cynicism with this, which is what we're talking about today, and that's why we're partly in this situation. And if we gave less guarantees and money to Victor Lentz, where about half a billion kuna was spent, now it's on the border whether to go bankrupt or reconstruct, and it hangs a few hundred people whether to lose a job or not, and for so much we'd have more opportunities in the state budget to sort things out. But it's like it's forgotten. This is absolute, not to talk about it, but only to talk about the segment of modernization of Croatian railways. Of course we all regret that the dynamics will slow down, but no one has given up on it. And the reason why it is largely lies in that this former government spent one dozen Croatian budgets for this year or 8% about the state budget. Now, someone said someone was threatening to jump in here. It does not need to be threatened, because USKOK is the legal body of the Croatian rule of law and it will do as the law requires, and it should not be threatened or threatened to anyone, we were told four years ago that we are under investigation as the HDZ whole party, and there is progress now and there is a great democratic climate after four years, and it consists of neither parliamentary nor outside the parliamentary party in this Croatian state being under investigation. I hope it will very well help us to work things out better because here we survived the investigation four years ago and here we are again in the Parliament. I welcome all democratic parties. There's no one under investigation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7209	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Radimir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7210	Thank you very much. For the 101st jubilee time, I declare that notorious nonsense and untruth to claim that 6.5 billion transferred liabilities from last government to this one, and here it is 101st time repeated. I once again say that it is not exactly what Minister Dropulic said here yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7211	Dear Representative Slavko Linic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7212	I'm correcting the inaccuracies of 6.5 billion spent last year that are due to be paid this year. By mentioning the collective contract as one of the reasons I make it very clear, these are not salaries paid last year. These are salaries that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will start paying off this year. That's the money that's going to be spent this year. But also, if the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not want to pay such wages, it can start negotiations with the union, change the collective contract. It's your policy to continue the collective contracts that were concluded last year. Both money and wages have been paid since 1.1.2004 and no kuna has been paid in the past year under signed collective agreements that you claim to have been spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7213	Thank you. Honorable representative Dragica Zgrebec, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7214	It's incorrect to transfer the 6.5 billion kuna debt. I already said today agree on how much this debt is because, even with the best will, with that budget-based specification, we cannot identify what it is to be transferred. And about that, it seems to me that some have forgotten that 9.5 billion kuna was left in 1999, so the then government did not seek an alibi in the debt left behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7215	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations further, respected representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7216	So I'm correcting Mr. Bebić's incorrect claim that there is no investment in the railway because this government spent 8% of the budget. That's incorrect. There is no investment because you acted like Santa Claus and now you had to spend money to finance your pre-election promises instead of investment and development.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7217	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7218	Mr. President, counterpart Bebic incorrectly argues that 6 billion kuna investment has had more impact on the financial situation of the Croatian state than privatising the press, banks and recovery of banks. There is no discontinuity between colleagues, Luka Bebić. The consequences are more drastic than the privatisation of the type Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7219	Thank you very much. Minister Calmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7220	Thank you, Mr. President. I won't repeat myself because I went out for this pay phone several times and interpreted it, but I'll just say a few things. So, I repeat what I said at the beginning, which is that this is a delay, not giving up on the modernisation of Croatian railways because for this government, the modernization program of Croatian railways is one of the strategic interests. And he's not giving up and he's not going to give up, he's going to keep on doing it. That's one thing. The other thing I want to say is that I don't know what some kind of illusions about privatisation can only be said by someone who doesn't really know how to privatize HZ at all or who's malicious. Therefore, infrastructure and public good, it cannot privatise everything and that it will and the transport system can be privatised but only after the adoption of a special law on it. So some of the illusions about it don't really stand, and I don't think there's a speech about it. And when it comes to reconstruction of the Zagreb-Split railway, it will be completed, I have already said it and now I repeat, whether 15 days later or 16 or 20 but it will be completed by this summer and will then be able to traffic much, much better than before. And finally, I certainly stand behind what I said, which is when it comes to the transfer of obligations, I have argued that when it comes to only Croatian railways with the basis of short-term loans this year, it is due to pay a billion-and-a-half kuna this year that have been spent. Also, a billion and 100 million kunas for the highway where I said before tomorrow, of those billions tomorrow, make a decision and last year they were spent. So let us also be extremely correct and honest when we talk about it. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7221	Thank you. I am concluding the debate on the final draft law amending the Law on Railways. Final draft law amending the Law on Railways, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 49. The debate on the text of the law is over. The representative, Mr. Cacic, was oral before he left here in front of me and in front of Madam Assistant Secretary, withdrew the amendments he submitted. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 77 votes for, 23 against the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Railways in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The Croatian government plans to conduct 10 bilateral and two multilateral military exercises through the Ministry of Defence this year, involving members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and members of the United States Armed Forces. The legal basis for this decision is Article 6(2). Law on defence which regulates that the decision to leave and act the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia is outside the borders or the entry or operation of the armed forces of other countries on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. For these military exercises, funds were planned in this year's budget of the Ministry of Defence amounting to 4 million kuna 340 thousand. Maintaining military exercises is one of the assumed partnership goals for our NATO accession to the alliance, and I suggest you adopt this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7225	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Ivan Jarnjak, Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7226	Mr. President! The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the session held on 3 March 2004 discussed the proposal for a decision on the maintenance of military exercises by members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the United States during 2004 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in an act of 25 January 2004. In the opening statement, the proposaler's representative familiarises the board members with the reasons for the decision-making and the objectives which are intended to be achieved by holding military exercises in Croatia. The Committee supported the decisions in question by assessing that it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to gain expertise and experience from members of our Armed Forces who will participate in the exercise and contribute to our intention to join NATO. Therefore, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the maintenance of military exercises of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the armed forces of the US during 2004 in the text as proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7227	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The esteemed prisoner, Željko Kurtov. Here you go. On behalf of the HNS Club, is that right?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7228	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS and PGS club will support this Proposal for a decision on military exercise because we too advocate that every day the Croatian military will be more and more trained and mobile and only such a modern and maximum-trained army can be able to carry out complex defence tasks of a modern state. We know that the Croatian army will have to have much fewer soldiers and officers and have to carry out the same and much more demanding tasks and also be more able to integrate into NATO forces. And what's very important is that our sanity teams are trained and trained to work in the most complex conditions when assistance is needed for neighbouring countries and in the event of earthquakes, floods, fires and God forbid worse disasters. Since we as a nation and a country expect the same from our neighbors, we must also train with them to work with these exercises. In the end, I would ask the Government to make sure that military exercises are not held in the course of the tourist season, if they must not then be on tourist destinations so as not to disturb tourists and work on our own damages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7229	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. That would be all for today, and it wouldn't be a little crossed, but the defence minister was upset. Proposal for a decision on the maintenance of military exercises by members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and the armed forces of the United States during 2004 The Proposer is the Government. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 97 votes for, 2 abstentions, a decision on the maintenance of military exercises by members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and the armed forces of the United States was taken during 2004 in the text proposed by the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7232	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, this text of the Rules of Procedure that lies before us for confirmation. It includes all objections and recommendations from the relevant parliamentary committees and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There you go. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7233	Thank you. The committee's reporters? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, the PGS, the esteemed representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7234	Dear President, esteemed colleagues, respected Madam Minister and respected gentlemen of the proposers. We are pleased that although this is already taking practically 2 months, it means from the first draft Rules of Procedure and then the second proposal by the Rules of Procedure that these observations have been made has improved the quality of this Rules of Procedure significantly. However, there are still some things we propose that it would be good to put them in this Rules of Procedure. It is proposed that the rules of procedure set out the opening of the website, to determine an email address that would allow better information, faster communication and efficiency in the achievement of the protection of the rights and interests of children. In order to permanently publish on the teletext all information on the defence as well as that the network of primary and secondary schools, libraries, bus stops, school buses are required to advertise information on the possibilities of contacting the Ombudsman for children. The Advocate's Rules of Procedure for Children and remains insufficient because communication with social work means is not seen. And it's also unclear how the Ombudsman works in local self-government units. It is also not evident from the rules of procedure of co-operation of the Ombudsman with international institutions for the protection of the rights of the child. Finally, it is proposed to propose to the Rules of Procedure, in particular, a simpler, less bureaucratic communication between those in need and those who provide it. In this context, we propose Article 5(7) to reform in a way that is unclear in a way that says that the process and way of getting to know and counseling children on how to achieve and protect their rights and interests, as well as how to cooperate with children, and to identify adequate solutions to encourage children to plead and respect their opinions. In addition to Article 11 of the present article, Article 10, where the office time which will be subsequently determined by the decision, we propose that this office time for receiving citizens is established to be extended to one day a week in the afternoon in order to ensure equal legal protection is available to everyone. We also believe that in order to ensure quality implementation, better quality implementation of this decision, it is necessary to identify who and in what way determines the urgency and other justified cases. You have defined here that all the items that have arrived will in practice be determined in a way by the Attorney General himself but we don't see if this applies to emergencies. In this last third proposal, we have already proposed, and we are pleased to note that anyone who considers that a child’s rights or interests are compromised or injured may or may, by oral or written submission, initiate an examination of an individual case of endangerment or violation of the child’s right of interest as well as general occurrences of that plan. We're glad it's accepted. In Article 17, we are also pleased that one formulation has been removed, says the possibility of handling exceptions. That's it. It is proposed that all applicants are processed regardless of their incompleteness, which was in the previous proposal and incomprehensibility. In particular, taking into account the level of literacy and lack of education of our population, since otherwise this article indicates the possibility that it is also possible for the discretionary right of defence to process some cases and some do not. We are pleased that practically the new proposal accepts that all submissions are being processed. However, it is not clear how often, on a monthly basis or a yearly basis, whether or not the Ombudsman will conduct such a visit to the premises and facilities. And finally, and finally, I would especially like to commend that in the Rules of Procedure, they removed the term of children in conflict with the law, it was also a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia which, according to the Government's interpretation, is not a legal term because it is worth saying that it is partly true. Croatian laws do not really know the term yet, but Croatian laws do not fully comply with international legal standards and our urgency should be to adopt our legal regulations and terms that represent a higher international standard and advanced international practice. Namely, the United Nations Child Rights Committee has betrayed the so-called the implementation book which clearly and unambiguously gave expert interpretations of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, Child, United Nations and found that action in the protection of the right should not be restricted exclusively to children who are in conflict with criminal law. So-called Penalty low. It's the law in general. There are so many Croatian terms of unacceptable behaviour or conflict with the criminal law that the government advocates by not responding because the first one is obsolete and the second one is too narrow and outside the focus of the child defender leaves a lot of children who are in conflict with the law but are not in conflict with criminal law. We therefore believe that the proposal for a formulation given by the other draft Rules of Procedure is far better than the Ombudsman herself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7235	Thank you. Here you go. Madam Attorney General. Ljubica Matijević Vrsaljko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7236	I'm how much I've been able to read the comments, but I think I'm the most relevant one, the most relevant one. As regards the e-mail address, it already exists. The D.A. and the deputies have an E.T. Advocate for Children hr. Also a website in the making but we didn't have the money to pay for it all. It's going to be calculated now, she's already in the making it can be checked. He's going to the D.A.'s office. Advocacy for children.hr. With regard to co-operation with international organisations, the office has long been working with UNICEF in the Republic of Croatia and Mrs Tanja Radocaj is a regular guest of the office and we are her guest. And I am very pleased to inform you that since 10 months, Croatia has been the most relevant international association for children. That's called the European network ombusman for children. And we've even paid our membership fee for last year, which is what we're going to say in our report that we have to give during the third month of this year. As well as proof of membership. With regard to working time in the previous Rules of Procedure, we have made it much more detailed, but it has just been an observation by the Committee on Law that it is not necessary, since working time will always adjust both the amount of parties and children and will be able to adapt. So it's more convenient for him to make a lawyer's decision for the kids. I will, of course, take note of Mrs. Shain's remarks, and I intend to arrange every day for it to be one day and afternoon. What I also think about about the tour of the place where the children are located in the homeland of social care, the homes for children with behavioral disorders, in the Rules of Procedure standing regularly it will be I don't think it was necessary to speak once twice a week. Here is actually the fact that this Rules of Procedure is very important to me that I can travel from Zagreb and go finally into the children's homes because of all these notorious situations that have happened. We'll be sure to keep a record of that, informing the government. And everything will be subject to our report, you will be much more than content with the amount and manner of home examination as well as communication with children. Now these are the remarks of those that I could have written down. So quick.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7237	I thank the attorney for the children. I'm closing the debate. Confirmation of the Advocate General's Rules of Procedure for Children. I am voting in favour of the adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the Advocates for Children, which was adopted by the Advocate General for Children on 17 February this year. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Abstained? I find that with 99 votes, a decision has been taken to confirm the Rules of Procedure of the Advocates, the Advocate General, actually for the children.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7240	Your Honor, Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. The TEXT of the Rules of Procedure was developed on the basis of the observations made by the Government and all relevant parliamentary committees in such a way that all observations were accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-03-0.u7241	Thank you. They want the committee's reporters. Government? I'm opening a debate. There isn't. We're closing the debate. Rules of Procedure of the Advocate for Gender Equality. I am voting in favour of a decision to confirm the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality, which was adopted on 27 February 2004 by the Advocate General for Gender Equality. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 99 votes in favour, she unanimously made a decision to confirm the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality. My colleagues and fellow MPs! According to the number of amendments submitted it is 432 if the procedure for each amendment would last for 4 minutes, it means 2 minutes as long as it has the right to declare the amendment promoter unless the government accepts it by chance with a vote, with the government showing that it lasts 29 hours and 20 minutes. That's the lower limit. Well, because the sooner I cross that line, I interrupt today's session and schedule tomorrow at 8:30. At 8:30 in the morning.
