ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27592	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The motion to vote for no confidence in Miomir Zuzul, who is the foreign minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, was filed by 43 parliamentary deputies in this House. THEY suggested that his mistrust be voted out. The request is based on the view that the non-transparent business of its own, i.e. by its wife's company, second in favour of favouring the government of the company that operates with his or her wife's company, so that it is granted by the Government, by its own decision and by its third multiple change in the statement of the whole case in the public and by the repeated conflict between the Minister's statements and later established facts, Minister Zuzul irrevocably violated his or her own credibility and by his further remaining position as representing the Republic of Croatia in the world and leading as a person headed by the negotiating team, negotiations on behalf of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union, thereby significantly harming the interests, reputation and credibility of the Republic of Croatia. That is why we consider it in the interests of the country and in the interest of the success of our foreign policy activity in such a sensitive period as it is before us to vote his mistrust. I'll briefly repeat the summary of what's going on. 29. 3. In 2004, the decision of the Commercial Court in Split sold the assets of the bankruptcy debtor Imostroy for a minimum of 847 thousand and some euros, plus the obligation to employ 20 workers. 26. 4. In 2004, at the public auction of Imostroy's assets, "Kara's Universal Engineering" was sold for the amount indicated. 14. Six. In 2004, workers "Imostroja" write to the Government of the Republic of Croatia asking that the government give up the circus of 6.2 million kunas of their claims from "Imostroja" and these unpaid debts to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the Croatian Employment Office. 2. Nine. The government makes this year, the government is making a decision on the write-off of the Circ. 6.2 million kuna claims from Imostroy, and I will return to this topic to explain this proposal, the first and only such case of 1403 companies that are in bankruptcy in Croatia, of which 962 companies are in the same situation, i.e. the Ministry of Finance has reported a claim. So, out of 962 companies, according to which the Ministry of Finance has this kind of claim, Imostroy's only debt was written off. In his own words, Minister Zuzul advocates such a decision by the government, and finally from 4 months to 9 months 2004, the company "Karin Universal Engineering" paid 143 thousand kuna to the company "MTS" owned by Minister Zuzul and the wife of Minister Zuzul. It's a brief recapitulation of facts and events. On these events, Minister Zuzul changed his statements and came into conflict with facts on several occasions. I will support this claim here, and then, of course, I will support our request for a vote of no confidence with 6.7 examples of changing statements or conflicts of testimony, and the facts that have been made public. First case, changing the testimony when it's said that no money has been paid. 1. 11th of this year, as regards the purchase of half of the stake owned by the company "MTS" by the company of entrepreneurs Ivan Karina Minister Zuzul, I quote: "This is another invention and insinuation, the contract is indeed signed but no money has been paid. Neither I nor my wife have received any of it." 2. This year, at a press conference, Minister Zuzul argues that neither MTS company nor his wife or he personally received any kuna from Mr Ivan Karin's companies. 3. No payment was made by Minister Zuzul, adding that he who claims otherwise must prove it. 4. 11th Minister Zuzul changes his statement and now says that the payment was and claims to be done as he says, I quote "the usual traffic between the two companies in which Karin is director". Second case of conflict of statements and published facts. 3. In front of reporters, Minister Zuzul rejected calls for conflicts of interest and speculation that part of the money was paid to his wife and that there are bank statements for it. 3. 11th media releases documents on payments and payments to the bank account of the company owned by Minister Zuzul's wife. At the expense of "MTS" from April to September 2004, the company "Carin Universal Engineering" paid a total of 143 thousand kuna. Third case, conflict of testimony and established facts. Minister Zuzul 1. 11th says the contract is void. 2. 11th, according to the Minister's words during August, so after the deadline for Karin to pay 500 thousand kuna to the company owned by Minister Zuzula's wife, the procedure for repealing the contract was launched. If something went wrong then, obviously it wasn't nothing. Fourth case of conflict of testimony and facts. The contract was signed off and became invalid. That is not true, because all payments deny such an attitude, and neither in the Commercial Court until the outbreak of an affair of such a request was there. The fifth case, the conflict of interest of Minister Zuzul took place in his discussion on "Free Dalmatia" where he said he supported the decision to write off part of the debt "Imostroy" which confirmed or acknowledged that he had acted contrary to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, since the company "Karyn Universal Engineering" paid 143 thousand kuna whose director and founder bought the company "Imostroy" at the auction as I said earlier recapitulating the facts. The sixth case of conflict of testimony and facts, error of reference. Yellows claim that 143,000 kunas were paid for as a loan. Payments, however, say that payment was made per invoice, which is then explained that it was a reference error. The seventh case of unbelief, or untrueness. 2.11. this year, Minister Zuzul explained that MTS decided this year to stop its activity, which is why it decided to sell part of the property so that loans and other obligations could be served by the company. I quote, "That 500 thousand kuna is the amount that the company "MTS" has paid until then to service the loan." Minister Zuzul said, an apartment of 140 square meters is also mentioned. 2.11. I also quote: "Carin Universal Company" to my wife, her company or me have not paid any amount and no transaction has been made, it cannot be a bribe." Meanwhile, the public found that 143 thousand kunas were paid. And the eighth case of untruth, when in Dnevnik plus Minister Zuzul declared himself, or expressed about Ivan Karin as a successful entrepreneur, while at the same time "Karyn Universal" owes the Ministry of Finance a million and 175 thousand and something kuna, at the same time owes a million and 600 thousand kuna for customs, while "Carin Universal Engineering" has a tax debt of 209 thousand and 164 kuna. The government of the Republic of Croatia was also manifested to these allegations. In her bid to disprove these facts, the government reached out to three instruments. The first is the State Audit Office's report on the write-off of the tax debt to Imostro Imotski d.o.o. in bankruptcy, all of you received it in the materials of the government's testimony for this session. The second instrument is a report by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia on the whole case. And the third is the government's own attempt to disprove certain allegations from our proposal that I briefly recaptured here. In principle, as regards the proposed State Audit and State's Attorney's Office reports, they have nothing to do with the proposal to vote non-confidentially on Minister Zuzul. Penalty, legal or criminal or legal liability are the responsibilities established by other institutions, not the state parliament. In this case, we are in the same situation that we are in when we vote in confidence, or mistrust, of the Government, and in which we find ourselves voting trust or mistrust. In this case, we vote in confidence, or mistrust, to one of the government's ministers. When no confidence is voted on by the government or by the government, but let's say here, the case of mistrust is voted on not because the government is liable for criminality, nor because the government has necessarily violated the laws. It is voted because Parliament estimates that the government is not capable, is no longer able to carry out its task. All other characteristics, all other elements of criminal responsibility, legal responsibility, is not on this Parliament to establish, there are other institutions in this country whose task this is and which should do so. Therefore, the fact that we have been given here by the State's Attorney's office that there is no criminal responsibility and contribution to the State's audit does not say anything about the subject that is on the agenda today, at least not directly, and that is whether it is the basis of its procedures, actions, business and testimony of Minister Zuzul that is able to perform the function which is now being conducted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so to be Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia. Public display of untrueness and intransparentity in business and attitudes is quite different from possible criminal and legal liability. However, we thank the Government because the reports are extremely useful and instructive and I would say they further assure us of the correctness of our position and the justification of the demands that 43 MPs have set here, which is the vote of mistrust, that is, the position that Minister Zuzul, under these circumstances, cannot act on his function. Let me just say it for a second. The State Audit report, so I quote, somewhere in the middle of the text, says among other things: "The Tax Administration, by letter dated 20.7.2004, pointed out that in the current practice of the Ministry of Finance, did not give up claims on the basis of a separate law. It has been stated that a thousand 403 bankruptcys have been reported in 962 bankruptcys by the Ministry of Finance." It's a finished quote. This is the situation on the day of 30.4.2004 according to the report we received from the State Audit. What does that mean? This means that in other 962 cases, so in other 962 companies where there are also workers on the road, who do not get paid, such a procedure has not been done, such debt has not been written off to them and that the only company, as clearly seen here from the State Audit report, whose debt is in this form and this kind of debt has been written off is exactly the company we are discussing here and the company owned by the Minister, or the wife of Minister Zuzula. The second instrument used by the government is the State's Attorney's Office's report. In the first wave and in principle irrelevant to our request, because we do not establish criminal responsibility, but also relevant, because it contains very interesting and important information. First, the Croatian Employment Service can write off debt with the consent of the Government. In its report, the Government's decision of 2. Nine. In 2004, he interpreted the write-off as the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the HZZ to write-off the debt. So the government made a decision to write off the debt, and then in the State's Attorney's Office's report it was declared or interpreted as the government's consent to the HZZ, so the Croatian Employment Service write off the debt. Note Bene Government has decided 2. 9. to write off the debt on behalf of HZZ, however, the Croatian Employment Office decided 1. On the 10th day less than a month later, the debt was to be written off, and in this way, it gave a subsequent agreement to the government's decision, although it was actually meant to be a decision by the HZZ. And other interesting information from the State's Attorney's Office report. Ivan Karin became director of the ETS although due to debts he could not sign up for the court register, which he was of course aware of because it was his own debts. If you remember the debts are expressed on the one hand to HZZO and on the other hand to the Ministry of Finance, therefore the debts in taxes and there is a total of around 2 million kuna. The only conclusion that can be drawn from this report and the data provided by the State's Attorney's Office's report reminds me of a graphite that recently appeared, which says the law is for all the same, but the holes in the law are not for all the same. That's pretty clear from this. And the third instrument used by the government and standing here at our disposal is the government's disprovement of the allegations from our request. I'll only list here two moments or two things. The government's disclaiming of our allegations continues to refer to the 143,000 kuna mentioned as a loan that MTS will repay, although it is undoubtedly found to be a payment per invoice. Secondly, I quote "Carin, Universal, my wife did not pay any amount to her company or to me and no transaction was made, it cannot be a bribe". Minister Zuzula's claim in the government's statement and the document we received in the government disproved our allegations, this claim is called a lapusa. Because of political correctness, we stopped calling this House a lie a lie, and we started calling it false. I agree. But we're not going to go one more step further and degrade the truth into the status of the lapsus. It seems to me that it's strong and because of political correctness, it's a little too much. And in the end, I have to say that I am personally sorry that this has happened. I'm sorry that this is your government maybe, but this is my country and this is the country of all of us, and therefore, in the few areas where this government has some result, and I think all colleagues in the opposition, and it seems that some in the position agree that this government deserves a lot of criticism and that there is a lot of incompetence. But foreign policy is an area where a positive movement has been made. It is our intention and it is our country, and therefore our interest not to ruin now and the part in which we have the chance to make some progress with this government in which we have a chance to move on, and to lose credibility, losing the opportunity to show our own country with credibility that we believe in our word and what is now supposed to be in the opinion of all vital Croatian interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27593	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Marijan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27594	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Pusic said Minister Zuzul participated in a decision that brought about the breakthrough of persons associated with him. That's absolutely not true. And it is true that the government has made a decision to waive its claims in favour of 168 former employees of Imostroy, so the government absolutely did not favor the new buyer with its decision, but only workers who had been paid back in three years who did not receive it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27595	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, honourable representative Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27596	I thank you, Article 209 concerning...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27597	209 can't, it can't, 209 can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27598	Why can't he?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27599	Because it's not...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27600	..refers to the correction of an incorrect quote..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27601	No, 209 thousand and I repeat for the first time, and this should be known to you to Article 209. The Rules of Procedure state that there is an institute to correct the incorrect allegations, who may request it and that an article of the Rules of Procedure should be immediately cited which the agent holds to be injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27602	Well, I'm quoting right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27603	But that's not Article 209.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27604	Mr. President, may I remind you by quoting?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27605	Yes, I quoted it to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27606	In his speech, the MP must be limited to correction, otherwise the president will take away his word, and the representative's speech cannot last longer than one minute. This is where the MP didn't limit himself to correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27607	The representative has specifically limited himself to correcting your claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27608	No, it wasn't Mr. President, because my claim wasn't that at the cabinet meeting the minister was pushing for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27609	You can't go under the firm, Mrs. Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27610	Mr. President, let's make a deal!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27611	You can't go under the firm, you have to name the Rules of Procedure, you can't, you're not allowed, the Rules of Procedure don't allow, and then I can't allow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27612	Mr. President, but the Rules of Procedure say that it must be said, saying that the MP who corrects the incorrect allegations must be limited to correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27613	And he's limited to it!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27614	But he did not limit himself to correcting the incorrect allegations because my assumption was that the minister said in an interview in “Free Dalmatia” that he advocated the write-off of the debt rather than the cabinet's session.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27615	The representative is one of your claims, I can't go in there and appreciate whether she's right or wrong, there's one of your claims. Don't, so I don't need help interpreting the Rules of Procedure from the bench. [[Intruder: It is not a claim!]] The second correction to the incorrect allegations is the respected representative Gordan Jandroković.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27616	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting two claims by Mrs. Pusic. The first is the claim that Karin bought the company Imostroy, that's not true, Karin bought the company's property and on the whole structure and rested this, this clumsy political game. And the second is the claim that the government has favored a company that operates with Mr. Zuzula's wife's companies, which is also a lie that is not supported by anything. In all these arguments, you can't prove it anywhere and see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27617	Third correction, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27618	A respected colleague stated that the government had written off the debt and called for a review report. The audit report reads on page 3. “In that case, it is not about the write-off of the taxable person’s debt but about the transfer of the claim for the benefit of the employees. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not write off claims to relieve the debtor of the obligation but by its request to smell the claims of the employees, there was no written down in spite of the title of the decision but it is necessary to look at the content of the decision, it is essentially about the resignation of the claim for workers to be able to settle.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27619	Fourth correction, respected representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27620	Mrs. Pusic said: “Minister Zuzul as chief...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27621	Do not communicate in a way that is not foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, Mr Bošnjakovic and Mrs Pusic do not communicate, it is not envisaged. I can't when it's not supposed to.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27622	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Pusic said, quote: “Minister Zuzul, as chief negotiator with the European Union, has damaged Croatia's reputation in Europe and the world.” That is not true, Madam MPs. It is true that you tried to damage Croatia's reputation because, regardless of the state's audit report and the state's attorney's office with doubts and a public link without proof, you accused the successful minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27623	The Fifth Amendment, the Honorable Representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27624	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Vesna Pusic, under the grounds for the invitation of Minister Zuzula, said the following, quote: “Acquittal of the Government of the company Imostroj with a write-off of about 6 million and 200 thousand kuna.” That's not true, it's a public prank, and that's what you'd call it for now. The truth is the following, the write-off of the debt, or transfer of the claim in favour of workers, as in this case, the State Audit Office accurately identified no news. From 1990 to today, all governments have written off debts to companies in difficulty and this is about transfer for workers and this is not news, it is not even us in Croatia State intervention in the economic sector that is present in all systems, it is present in transition countries, in the European Union. And on the other hand, I have to say that Mrs. Pusic doesn't believe the finding. He doesn't believe the findings of the state audit. [[Thank you very much! Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27625	Don't, sir. There isn't. ... Equally for everyone, it is known that the answer to the correction of an incorrect quote can last for one minute. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27626	Mr. President, just two corrections, the other colleagues have corrected. counterpart Pusic said that the State Audit Report, the State's Attorney's Office's report had nothing to do with the motion for a non-confidential vote to Minister Zuzul, is a complete lie because the request, with certain assumptions the state's attorney and the state's audit completely ignored and found incorrect, therefore incorrectly said. And I'm correcting another quote if she said yes, it's our country, if she meant Croatia, then I'm saying it's our country too.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27627	And the esteemed representative of Mate Stimac, the correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27628	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting the alleged colleague Pusic, that Imostroj is operating with MTS owned by the minister's wife. That's not true because MTS never did business or could do business with Imostro because Imostroy was in bankruptcy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27629	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure on a proposal for a question to raise a trust issue with a single minister can be shown by the minister. Does Minister Zuzul want to show himself? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27630	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. President, Madam Vice President, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Representatives. I have clearly prepared my statement, however, from the opening statement it seems to me that the request has been changed because it is no longer required on the basis of how it was submitted and signed by 43 MPs because the Vice-President did not actually speak about it, but as I would not read it all, I would remind first that this document, or this request came from this House, and that the number of points that require a vote of mistrust by the Minister of Foreign Affairs or me. Of all these points, there's a whole series of her being, she's in her opening address, she seems to me just set me in, at one point and that's on, the point of unconsistent testimony. However, you can use whatever terms you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27631	I warn you, I must warn you, don't throw away, especially these words you've thrown away. We agreed on something and we resolved both the Rules of Procedure and the culture of speech, and we can also have the strictest discussions but please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27632	So from the way it's shown here, it really looks like I should never have asked for the state's attorney's opinion like I asked. The government shouldn't have asked for the opinion of the review because it seems that it was all clear, there was no conflict of interest, and if it were really so I wouldn't, it wouldn't be debated about this last one either because I obviously wouldn't give any statements about it. However, Madam Vice-President, your request also uses suspicions of taking bribes and speaks of conflict of interest and I immediately ask you at the beginning which institution is it if not a lawyer to determine whether there is a criminal offence because taking bribes is a criminal offence. However, from your presentation to me, it was not clear at all who the request for a vote of confidence was at all because you mentioned a whole series of institutions, so let me respect this House of the High, respecting all MPs to give my view of the whole case. As foreign minister, I would, of course, like to address today with some foreign policy issue because I really agree with Madam Vice President here. We are at a time when many foreign policy topics have great importance for our country and country of Croatia. Unfortunately, instead, I have to talk about the insinuations that are against me both now and here and in the media and talk about some facts. So if you'll allow me right away at the beginning, I'll say, "I'm not guilty of conflict of interest, nor of any of the great accusations that have yet to be made tonight." It's neither legal nor political nor moral. I'll try to prove it to the argument today, of course. We have heard some arguments already from the corrections of the quote, and of course it is up to you to decide and then vote whether on the basis of the arguments or on the basis of your created or certain views. I won't talk much about the case of "Imot Machine" except to mention that a whole series of practical untruths has been presented tonight. Practically false. Madam Vice President, I don't know if you're going to call it a lapus, or if you're going to use another word, you've made a few incorrect facts. You can repeat the record of your speech, you can repeat what you said, and you'll determine that means that your mistrust could be voted out, but it's about me and I accept it, not about you. As far as my criminal and legal responsibility is concerned, let me, however, quote the only relevant institution for that determination, which is the State's Attorney's Office because we did not question that institution and its conclusion, which said: The State's Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia did not establish the existence of any suspicion of the initiation of any criminal offence, nor did it determine the existence of any illegality that would require the conduct of the civil and administrative department of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. I could say, "Sapients watch" and stop at that, but obviously there are other elements and of course I want to talk about, and you have the right and on the basis of other elements to demand a vote of mistrust both to the government and to any minister. However, criminal responsibility was discussed. It also means to do it one more time. Two relevant state institutions; the State Audit and the State Attorney's Office have not found any illegal actions with which I would be linked. Both of these institutions have sent their reports to this honorary home and I am free of any guilt and confirm all my claims regarding the case of "Imo Machine". You accuse me of being politically responsible because I kept secrets about a possible conflict of interest and then finally, because of this case, I will no longer be able to properly represent Croatia in the world. On the contrary. I've made all the facts available to the public and the government, and I've personally asked the State's Attorney's office to investigate, and where I think the media has brought the truth, I've addressed the court. Because I guess these are institutions that need to protect every citizen whether he was an official or not. Then why am I politically responsible? Because I did not report a possible conflict of interest to the Committee of conflict of interest where such conflict is not possible. As clearly and factually established in these previous bodies. It has been said, again, that the State's Attorney's Office is not the right address for the assessment of this case. Gentlemen, again, I have been accused of corruption or suspicion of corruption or some have spoken of possible corruption. That's the category that falls under criminal responsibility. The only place, the only institution that can determine is the State's Attorney's office. Moral responsibility in the case of corruption is solely rooted in criminal responsibility because if someone is truly guilty then it is both moral and criminal, and if there is no criminal responsibility in the case of corruption, I do not know what kind of moral responsibility could be in the case of corruption. You are, of course, in your statement, and such an image was created mainly presented in the media, which is unfortunately manipulated extremely, I do not know from which and from which, however, from the beginning to the end, a false belief is created based on misinformation, semi-information and pure fiction. Again, I will try my satisfaction and prove my truth in court about it. But let me tell this honorable home an eclectic example that is an illustration. I could have brought a whole series of examples like that. Because all the time it's talked and created, it's a picture, it's a public opinion. There may be no facts, but there is still guilt. Let me tell you this one exact case, and I could say it again, but I don't want to bother this honorable home by cutting down the writing of all the media in the way they cut me down. The case from Croatian TV. Public television. On 1 November, reporting on the so-called The case "Imo Machine" on Croatian TV states: It is interesting that in one of the competitions, and there were as many as 7 for the purchase of "Imo Machines" failed to report to the Zagreb company "Max TT". Afterwards, Croatian television represents the public of resident Mr. Mislav Jurčić, the owner of the company "Max TT" which declares, quotes: "We were quite surprised by the write-off of the debt and because our application to the Government was exactly the same. But it never came to such a solution," the quote concluded. Before I deal with the question of who Mr. Witness is, Mislav Jurcic, let's see how this goes on. The next day, on November 2nd in the Croatian Television Log, the exact same news is repeated and again, it is again quoted as being a gentleman or giving directly to Mr Mislav Jurcic. It is then repeated in other media and, until the last appearance in the show "Latinica". Of course, we all know the old lady 100 times the repeated lie becomes true, and this lie has been repeated over 100 times. But what is it? Contrary to the claims made by Croatian TV company "Max TT" did not report at all for the sale of property "Imo Machine" and was never involved in this, the companies "Lag" from Zagreb, "Josip Grup" from Zadar and "Vuković Slaven" from Zagreb appeared. Based on the solution of the Commercial Court in Split, none of these three offers were accepted. Apparently, Mr. Jurcic had an affair with the company "Lag" from Zagreb. Because his mother-in-law, Max TT, didn't even answer. However, the director of the company "Lag" from Zagreb, Mr. Perkovic, confirms that I, of course, have written a statement that his company has never complained about this solution as Mr. Jurcic stands out. And finally Mr. Perkovic argues that the alleged participant of the tender for the purchase of the property "Imo Machine" so-called "Imo Machine". HTV's witness Mislav Jurcic was never an employee of the company "Lag" and was not authorised to make any statements on behalf of the company. Now, why am I bringing it up? The question arises why did Mr. Jurcic falsely testify in the HTV program? I personally have a pretty clear idea whose interests he represented, I can't prove them, so I won't talk about them in public or talk about them, but the fact remains that the gentlemen's parliamentary representatives have falsely testified. A false testimony criminal offense. Of course, the question arises whether it is not the duty of journalists and editors of HTV to verify the claims of their witnesses before broadcasting them. And the question arises, of course, whether HTV journalists invented this case out of ignorance or with the intention of my dispersion. Two possible answers to this question. If the journalists and editors of HTV therefore acted out of ignorance, and because of their surfaces did not check who he is and who he represents their false witness Jurcic, then they would have to admit their mistake, and at least apologize to me. If they knew that Mislav Jurcic or his company "MAX TT" had never even joined a tender for the purchase of Imostroy, then let the professional commissions of the press company deal with it. I'm sorry, I don't mean to sound like a professor or a lecturer right now, but we're calling on the world. We're talking about the world, let's look at how this is done in a world of mature democracy in a similar case. A well-known US television journalist, Den Reter, from a private station, CBS, called in his report for his testimony as he said a reliable source, and presented the lie. That was recently. Two months ago. Turns out his reliable witness was just a manipulator, and his testimony was completely false. Not only did the journalist Reter have to reveal his source of false information, but at the end of his 72nd year of life, he was fired without the right to retire. His CBS television house had to apologize to all the people that a journalist, by means of a false witness, blacked out in public. Why is that? Because in the world, and I still believe there is one rule in Croatia. The man is innocent until proven guilty. And I hope, I really hope, that for us too, it's a time in which someone is guilty until they say otherwise. I've been trying for over a month, not with a lot of success, because unfortunately this kind of media treatment proves something that in the rule of law and in a developed democracy I wouldn't even have to prove, which is that I'm not guilty of anything. And if I'm guilty, then it needs to be proved and then, of course, I have to answer for it. For example, for example, cases of conflict of interest exist in the world of democracy a lot and there are cases of investigation. For example, a Dutch representative at the Council of Ministers of the European Union was recently suspected of conflicting interest, however, in 12 cases of conflict of interest. Her testimony on this was, in short, clearly indicative and precisely paradigmal for developing democracy countries, and that is where Croatia wants and wants to be. She said, thank God I live in a democratic society where a man is innocent until proven guilty. Madam Vice President of the Parliament has touched my credibility in the world. And I agree that this High House has the right to argue about every minister and his credibility in the world, that every minister should talk about it. But I don't know, Madam Vice President, what are your claims are for which you know they're not true. My credibility in the world is not at stake. You know that and everyone knows that who sees what's going on in the world. Let me tell you just my last week, even though I could go from all year round and maybe say that in 300 calendar and 250 working days, I had 415 encounters with world politicians and dignitaries, that I flew a lot more miles than it was allowed by an airline pilot, that I only slept five nights in the same bed and that when I played the case, I don't want to wake up sentiments, but the fact is, when I was in the hospital and I just believed in what we were doing, believing in this government that's going to do it, I'm doing it myself now, and I hope with your trust, that I'll do it in the future. But you can say, that was before, what is now. Here, we can only look at the last week. Just last week. On Thursday, last Thursday, I was in Austria where I participated in a roundtable that was broadcast directly by two German televisions, 1 Austria's, the Round Ages was about Europe, bridges in Europe. Other guests were Austrian Chancellor Mr. Schiesel, Vice-President of the European Commission, none even the minister except me were there. Just five invited guests. On Saturday, I participated in Berlin at a forum called Vision of Europe as one of six invited speakers for the day. Other speakers were German former Chancellor Kohl, Czech President, Mr Klaus, Foreign Minister Latvia and very prominent people in the field of politics or business. On Monday, I attended a European Union ministerial conference inviting six other ministers from Europe, including Croatia's foreign minister. I was supposed to take part again Monday night, but I went to New York, because I was giving a speech to the Security Council, meeting with a whole series of officials who wouldn't even mention it, and finally, should there be any other evidence of this today, today, today, just as I am telling you, unfortunately I can't do my regular job, because I'm officially hosting the Commissioner of the European Union Enlargement, Mr. Rehn. It hasn't happened in months. What I've described has happened to you in the last few days. Because it can be said that such a person or such a minister has a reputation in the world? Mr. Rehn didn't have to come today, none of them had to meet me, none of these institutions had to invite me to speak to them. I will continue, again, if I get the trust of this High House, continue to do my job the way I've done it before, as I've done in the '90s, believing in the idea on which we built the state, and now believing in the way we travel and which government, which I dare say, is because it's simply exactly which government this Croatian government is leading. I don't feel responsible, not legally, not morally, not politically, not in any other way. It's true, and I admit it, I used to give maybe hasty ones and some of my statements obviously didn't answer to others. That's what's happening. It happens to everyone. What you called me for, are we introducing the term "lapses." The term "lapsus" introduced past Vlad, the more we quoted when she spoke about the prime minister of the government. Well, let's just say it's not even a lapse. Let's just say I made a mistake in some of the statements I made. And maybe I could have really created some confusion. I truly to anyone who, for the sake of my sometimes inaccurate statements, has come to the wrong conclusions. But what's at the end of the story, gentlemen dear, exactly, is that I, no one from my family in this whole story, has received any money, dollar or kuna, no bribe, no such possibility. I wasn't in any conflict of interest, as much as I was told I wasn't in a position to vote, because I was on one of these trips, but it's true that I said I would vote for it. I would. Because I think it's the right thing to do, the right thing to do. And as for my defiled, or uncircumcised reputation in the world, I think you can conclude for yourself. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27633	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27634	I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of Minister Zuzul who claimed here that he was not in conflict of interest. Yes, Mr. Zuzul, because you have violated Article 6(i) of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, which says that the official is in conflict of interest every time he uses his position as an officer to influence the decision of the legislative, executive or judicial authorities to achieve a personal breakthrough or breach of a connected person, of any privilege or right, to conclude a legal business or otherwise favour himself or another connected person. The owner of Imostroy is a connected person with you for publicly confirming both you and him.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27635	And another correction, honourable representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27636	Minister Zuzul says the whole case has been constructed by the media, but it's completely incorrect. Well, the media didn't invent that you at the government meeting said there was no payment traffic between Imostroy and your MTS. So the media didn't invent that you didn't pay the tax, because at the time they wrote about it, you really didn't pay the tax, you only paid it later when the media wrote it. So the media hasn't constructed, they've discovered that you've come in conflict with the principles of public duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27637	We're going to a club debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27638	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, When the Zuzul case comes to mind, as president of the IDS Club, I'm only interested in one thing, that our MPs are voting for the interpretation of 43 parliamentary MPs, so against Mr. Zuzul. And secondly, I have to say right away at this point that Mr. Walter Drandic ended up in the hospital on Monday, and that's why he couldn't have been at the budget vote yesterday, or at this debate. The court of the public is unquestionable. The public is, that's what Mr. Zuzul himself said, against him. Whoever doesn't see it is a political daltonist, the same thing with Mrs. Pugliz. The public is ruthless in both the first and second cases they want the matter resolved rigorously with a shift. However, I will repeat those words that I said, I was shoeed for 15 days. Damir Cain made the first statement to the morning list that the IDS had not contacted anyone because of this initiative, but that Zuzul should be resolved. Then I heard that the State's Attorney's Office has launched certain investigative actions, saying that the IDS expects the State's Attorney's Office to present its court immediately, and if he's negative, some Mr. Sanader will relieve Zuzula of his duties or otherwise demand a government's discharge. Interesting that President Mesic said the same thing. I am in favour of closely determining the factual state of affairs to be determined by those institutions under which it belongs, and only then to make a fair decision. Interesting that he said something similar yesterday and Mr. Lesar at the HNS press when he said that Mr. Sanader didn't trust the State's Attorney's office, the police and the judiciary in the case of one of our other colleagues. 10.11. so that there would be no doubt of what I'm saying, but that wasn't enough for them, so since there was a misunderstanding in the IDS' position, I want to clear it up. The IDS will vote for Minister Zuzul's shift, but we must give the man an opportunity to defend himself. Any conflict of interest should be determined as well as criminal liability. Because of those words, even though I kept saying that we were going to vote against, I got beat up like never. Today's words, like those of Mrs. Pugliz where I vote against being sent to a lie detector, are not guilty. In fact, for some principles, you should simply sacrifice yourself. Why? So that the next day might also call for principles if someone now raises a question of conflict of interest for me, Mrs Doroteja Pesic-Bukovac, Valter Poropata, Valter Drandic or someone on the fifth. I repeat, and I will repeat then, the conflict of interest should be determined as is the case. It is necessary to establish the criminal liability clearly. If we fail to do so, we introduce revolutionary courts and judge people as they were on trial in 41st or 45th. What's the problem? Mrs Pusic said clearly that political and criminal responsibility is not the same and at least it is clear to everyone. Someone may be criminally innocent, but they will be clearly politically responsible. But the problem is in the system, and our system feeds hypocrisy, as if all the hypocrisy of this world was embedded in our system. Let's start with this Law of Conflict of Interest. The law is condicated by the son of a qua non of one's political ethics, something no civilised country can do. But the truth is that the law did not want the former government either because it was only adopted at the final session of the Parliament in 7.10.1903 and I believe that Mr Tadic, who worked hard on it, agrees with me. She probably wasn't thrilled with it either, I don't even understand an opposition who can't agree on this committee for conflict of interest. However, I dare say this law, and it is not too valuable to mention. Why? Because he knowingly avoided defining cases of conflict of interest that some officials, former, present, did not matter, me or someone fifth, would not be called, but contained something that could not be commented on rather than commented. The law, ma'am, concerns thousands of people, from MPs to ministers, from the Constitutional Court judges to the people of the Croatian People's Bank, from the Rector, the Rector to the Chief of Staff, from our commissioners, mayors, mayors, and all the way there to members of the Supervisory Board of Public, State-owned Enterprises. There are thousands of people in the country that count 4 million and 300,000 people and where to joke, everyone knows. No, I'm not pushing for something to underline the line, although in the end it will have to be, but that these institutes are precisely regulated so that there will never be another doubt that the same conflict of interest in me is the same conflict of interest in anyone else in this House or in that category of officials. It is not disputed that article 17 of the law says that the commission we do not have is making a decision on whether anyone is in conflict of interest. So the commission is making a decision, and he's gone, and that's why I said it, but Mr. Bajic says his own thing, I'm finally continuing, he's not an acquisition, this is already the former government, and it could have been resolved a year and a half ago, and apparently it was hitched. Why? And that's the point. So Zuzul may be the problem of the ministry, the government, the country, but the same problem is the independence of the judiciary if it is true that Mr Bajic has asked for an opinion in someone's executive authority. The IDS has repeatedly stressed that the IDS votes in the opposition were never missing even when we were expelled from power. If the opposition lacks votes, then the votes that were lost in the period from 2000 to 2003 are missing. Once again, I will say, the IDS will vote against Minister Zuzula, but I am not sure that this government, as Mrs Pusic said, was most convincingly on the foreign agenda, and everyone acknowledges that as opposed to this social or economic inconclusiveness. And this government has the support it's obviously Western European leaders, we have to admit it, and I don't know if anyone else would, in addition to IDS, raise a hand for mistrust to the government. So we could vote no confidence to Mr. Zuzul but to the entire government during yesterday that we managed to break the budget, but there were only 17 people on that budget who voted against the opposition ranks, 13 of the 34 SDPs, 3 of the 4 IDS and Mr. Kramarić in front of LS. Moves such as the removal of the monument of Francetic, who had been in Slunj 4 years ago or the removal of Budak streets in Zadar, Dubrovnik, should be welcomed. Co-operation with The Hague must also be welcomed and perhaps this minority idyll, although I disagree with those benefits, going to Belgrade or joining Schroeder, as well as announcing the date of the negotiations, but life is much more difficult within the political plan and the government is far more inconclusive. Gentlemen, the people are having a hard time living. I repeat, he's having a hard time living, and he thinks it's all our fault that we're sitting in the Parliament, in the government, I don't know, somewhere else. IDS, HDZ, SDP, HNS, etc. And that's why citizens are actually ready today or looking for only the victim or, among other things, the victim. So that's what I'm saying. If you want to replace someone, bury them, it doesn't matter, which is politically legitimate, but you have to say a nice word if someone is responsible for something. Just that, that'll be the IDS principle. So, Mr. Zuzul wasn't a bad minister, but apparently, the way he acquired the property paints his eyes. Many will say, clearly, look at you in the mirror, etc., but this time I ask that only some things be regulated, that all cases are defined and that we do not manage different criteria for the same cases. So, IDS if you really want it against that Bible "who is without sin let the first stone throw away". We are to define everything, to revive the system, but because of the dispute over the commission and in opposition, the institute of conflict of interest will turn into a cartoon. As for the debts of this, I read from Imostroy that some in Imotsky have welcomed it, but I want to say something else. At the same cabinet session, the debts of Tekopo from Pula were written off, for which Mr. Hrelja worked on it, and Mr. Drandić, perhaps Mr. Perusko, Cain, for sure. Clearly, we didn't get anything for that, but now we're where we are. It would have been better if there had been other cases in the interpretation, but since we can't identify ourselves only in this. And what do you say if we want to raise our hand "against"? I don't trust the attorney's office, I don't trust the audit. That's pretty interesting. It may be so daily that if we want to be serious, we still have to realize that we have to define the conflict of interest in detail because as things stand, on today we may be many, many in this Parliament in conflict of interest. But the worst are double criteria. If this principle prevails in Croatia, Croatia will not split, it will split. And for the end, one more time. The IDS will vote for interpretation, we ask that access be made to a law that will be able to deal with conflict of interest because this one feeds conflict of interest. Let the commission form, and right now, the IDS won't suggest anyone there. And say what? The public has ruled. True, it doesn't always have to mean the right court, but the IDS doesn't want to pollemize with it. So there's a reason to believe there's political responsibility, but now the last thing I'm saying is, let's regulate the rules of conduct through precise law. Let's form this committee and let's not experience everyone who works, and especially here, I think of people in the private sector as thieves and criminals. Nothing is easy, it is neither easy nor easy to come out for this Assembly speaker and here to address you or the Croatian audience, but it is the most difficult thing to secure the wages of yourself, your workers, and then the army of us of 200 thousand as much as at this time on the state salary or on the budget salary. Hence, 2,3 thousand officials mentioned earlier, and 2,000 judges are to be added here. I don't know, maybe 200, 300, 400 state lawyers, 10,000 members of various municipal, city councils, it's easy to get a few thousand people killed at this time because of legal gaps. I believe that, if we want to be one credible country, we must avoid it. Clearly, I'm not talking about criminal responsibility, I'm talking about this political one more time, and I'm going to tell the IDS will vote for that interpretation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27639	It's not about interpolation, it's about lapus. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27640	Mr. President, although he was speaking relatively well this time, I must correct Mr. Cain's incorrect claim regarding the Helena Pullius case, as explained. It's true that there are witnesses, Mr. Markov, Mr. Shime Luchin, that Mr. Cain once spoke at the board's session, and the other was speaking when he came out to the press, and the third was giving away even state secrets by trying to defend her, so he was entangled to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27641	Thank you. Dear representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27642	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. My colleague Cain is constantly calling for laws, and it is not true, colleague Cain, that you follow your principles or party principles that you constantly mention. When you say, the IDS will vote for Zuzul's shift, but let the man defend himself. By the principles of humanity and the law, we should give the man to defend himself so you can give him a verdict, and you've already ruled Mr. Minister Zuzul, but it won't work. It's not my fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27643	It is not, Mrs. Petricevic, the correction of the incorrect allegations. And the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27644	Your Honor, I'm correcting an incorrect assumption that I consider to be a lapus and that it's probably not spoken in any bad sense. The Tekop d.d. case. Pula's former disability employment companies cannot be identified with these cases because the former government has forgiven the government's debt in the case of Tekopa in the role of opening a disability employment facility. It's a very different situation than this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27645	Thank you very much. We'll have to think about introducing a lapus correction. Next, the club of representatives of HSLS, DC. Dear Representative Frano Piploic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27646	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. The fact that this is still a historic day in the Croatian Parliament, why I say historically, because we have a plenary session, we have a debate on the subject of which a working body should give its previous opinion, its position. That didn't work. We have a Mr. Minister who bravely went to the Parliament here, showed his strength, made arguments, and in the end, we'll see what the result will be after the debate. Anyway, I'm going to exe homo, exe Minister Zuzul. Also, I think today is an opportunity for all of us here in the Croatian Parliament, during this debate to determine, that is, how much responsibility we have for the lives of all our citizens, for everything that is happening in Croatia. How much is the level of responsibility of the current people who manage Croatia, what is the level of responsibility they managed yesterday in Croatia. It is also an opportunity for us, if we want to take advantage of it, to learn how great the ice Santa is the conflict of interest of officials in Croatia. Not only do we put the accent on one case but we open up that Pandora's box of conflict of interest and tell the Croatian citizens after all that we honestly think we have a good will, that we have enough power to deal with this problem that we are facing. Who determines that the official is in conflict of interest? This Decision declaring the Law on the Prevention of Interest in Article 5 states that in the event of a doubt whether any conduct is in accordance with the principles of public officials must request the opinion of the Commission for a decision on conflict of interest. Since this case, Mr. Minister said and said he did not feel that he was in conflict of interest, who is to submit on behalf of the public a request to the Committee to determine whether the minister was in this case in conflict of interest. In this case, gentlemen, we don't have that commission, why we don't have that commission, who's to blame, whose butter it is, I think we should discuss it a little bit in order to discuss it more. Because the one who stalled the formation of this commission obviously has his reasons to delay the formation of this commission and only when a man can analyse this behavior can only conclude that this is a kind of politicalisation, a kind of political lynching because before this commission is formed that has not yet been formed, it was necessary to establish and discuss why the past commission failed, why Kapraljevic's commission failed. Not at press conferences to present their views and opinions on the commission. I think that the Croatian Parliament was the place where the report was to be submitted because the Croatian Parliament formed that commission, that commission was to submit a report, this is where we should discuss it, and we should know where we are. This turned out to be Mr. Antun Kapraljevic's first victim, the only victim of our failed struggle for legality in the conflict of interest. In the DC and HSLS Club, we believe that conflict of interest significantly lowers the level of morality in political decision-making and on the exercise of government duties, and makes our citizens reasonably more dissatisfaction. To the extent that we are unacceptable to the existence of conflicts of interest, we are also inadmissible to its politicisation. And that is why we keep this request to our colleagues quite hasty by politicising a possible conflict of interest with the fundamental objective of provoking the government's reconstruction. Before any fact or fact-finding, this whole affair had traveled to the Croatian public, the media had visited, there were many arguments, the clear unproven guilt was not proven to the conflict of interest of Minister Zuzula, and therefore a picture was created in public, one of the pressures she obviously didn't want and ultimately the government answered in the way someone wanted but was directed by the Minister himself and by the Government himself to the state attorney's office and the audit that they said. It might be good to ask a question when we see a form of verbal political cannibalism on our social one... of whether anyone feels responsible for the introduction of this kind of relationship between us. Because today it's Zuzul, tomorrow it's going to be someone else, a third, and I'm afraid we'll never end it and we might lose control of this problem that we're facing if we don't show real honesty and honesty to solve it. Over the past month, the mountain has been shaking, Croatia is shaking, and Zuzul is shaking, but if after all this someone will pull the cat by the tail, we will see. Because colleagues without a commission, without its legal basis and judgment, the whole action took place in the style of that people's "Dreste" thief. Speaking of this topic, one fundamental question arises, which is colleagues and colleagues with a conflict of interest at a lower level in our country, for example in municipalities, cities in the counties. It seems to me that there are far greater and more dangerous conflicts of interest than we have to say so conditionally at the state summit. The worse we have them, because whoever's up there is always better seen, the easier those down there to drown and hide. I'm afraid if we were to tangle that conflict of interest down there to discover the real foundations on which these conflicts of interest lie in our country. We supported Prime Minister Sanader and Minister Zuzul's position, but when we didn't have a commission, the state's attorney's office questioned and said its own, and that's the basis for us at the DC and HSLS Club to assess what was presented here in the proposal, or what Mr. Züzul said. The DC and HSLS maintains that the current commission to prevent conflicts of interest has been led in such a way as not to clarify but to conceal conflicts of interest in which state officials and former governments were. The DC advocates the urgent appointment of the new commission and its work in accordance with and as prescribed by the law. And in the end, once again, we will support Mr. Minister Zuzul because no other state body has established anything that would have been instructed that Mr. Minister was in conflict of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27647	Thank you. On behalf of the Serbian Democratic Independent Party Club, respected representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27648	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the Independent Democratic Serb Party Club, I would like to say at first that we, Mr. Minister, cannot support you in this case. Now let me tell you why. We can't support you not because we know it's your fault, because we don't know, we as well as you could read and hear the opinion of the state's attorney's office on criminal responsibility and that's what's certainly good in your case and in the case of the government and the case itself. But it's not just that. You've told the state's attorney's office that I'm certainly not guilty, not legally, not politically, not morally. The State Attorney's Office can determine only the first and that is, in matters of relations between the citizens and the state, i.e. the institutions and the state. Political responsibility, moral responsibility, the State's Attorney's office does not determine Mr. Minister. It determines the public. In this regard, the Court of Justice was unequivocal, clear and harsh, as the public can be. All these years, we've had opportunities to experience a public court that can be rough, very often too harsh. So we and the public need to learn the same thing. So, Mr. Minister, we didn't come here to say that you're guilty, because we don't know that, but Mr. Minister has made a mistake. You made a mistake after step one. Instead of saying things go where they should go, and there are only two institutions. If there is a suspicion of criminal responsibility to the State's Attorney's office, if there is any other doubt, then it is the Commission for the conflict of interest of this House. And second, Mr. Minister, that by any chance you have done what in all situations seems to be similar, which is that to your Prime Minister, whom this party also supports as her speaker in this case, you have come and said, "I am putting you in office and I am giving you your mandate back."you would protect yourself, especially the government, especially the public and this Parliament from a series of things that followed. You didn't do it and you made a mistake. And you didn't make a mistake as my college colleague, you didn't make a mistake as a valuable man, because it really is, in a number of things both in university and diplomatic and in this third life that is now being put on your mind. And it is no doubt that you are doing a lot for this government and doing a lot for this Croatia, and I really don't think there is a need for you to talk about how much you do and how much your jobs are. But you were wrong in one thing where you did not understand or you were unable to understand what the foreign minister's institution, a member of the government, is in the new circumstances of democratic Croatia. This is how we got the situation so that the prime minister, as one of his most trusted and closest associates, puts you in protection, understandably and your party. Understandably, we too are sensitive to this fact, as partners, in that this power can function and do what must be done in the short time in which it must do so. And in that sense, Mr. Minister, I don't know if there's anything more in that sense that can be fixed, but one thing is clear, perhaps our co-worker, Professor Pusic, when assessing your credibility outside the world and exaggerating in that respect, or maybe it's too strict, is it? But one thing's for sure, if this government has strong credibility anywhere, then it's out of the house, then it's in Brussels, then it's in Washington, then it's in Rome, it's in the various capitals of today's Europe and this world. Because of the policy she is implementing and because of what she intends to do and what this government least needs is that her main man for this job at home is creating this kind of thing, I'm going to mildly say that he has a conflict with his public opinion and that he is at home disrupting the credibility of this government. That's why you made a mistake. This was about the commission. I thought about talking more about it, but after hearing certain words, I decided to talk about it or not to talk about it or talk about it very little. We have made a mistake, too, because we still believe or think here too, is there among us those who think what kind of man today does not have 3 million euro in account? Those who vote for us are mostly such, exclusively and almost only such. And the fact that our commission was dealing with whether Pupovac was a scorpion or something else, and it was as the main finding of one year's work shows that we, in fact, have not yet matured for the institutional development of this Assembly. For transferring public debates to the Parliament yes, but for preparing the Parliament to say what should be said with its institutions unfortunately not. And I'm going to stop there because it's not an opportunity to talk about it that way because some colleagues use it as an argument in a place where they shouldn't. And finally let me, Mr. Minister, that by whatever case the Prime Minister has been to him, Mr. Chacia, I and the SDSS Club would not have had a dilemma, but you, Mr. Minister, are neither in front of the public nor in the government, and therefore this club will appreciate what the Prime Minister seems to be doing next, we cannot give you confidence, but in this situation, because of the Prime Minister, we will not raise our hands for your shift, but we are putting you on the table to decide what you need to do, that I am in your place I would know what to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27649	Thank you. HNS representative club, PGS. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, you are also a representative of the promoter in the proposal and on behalf of the club. On behalf of the club. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27650	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to say that I share the dissatisfaction of Mr. Minister that his answer today to the motion for a vote of no confidence in Croatian television did not allow the Croatian public to hear it directly and we are equally dissatisfied here. When the Prime Minister was asked a question on the current morning whether what came out in the media would suggest a resolution of the minister, the answer was decided, no. The next day, we publicly called on Mr. Minister to resign himself, or to give the mandate to the prime minister, the answer was no on the same day. The third step in this House's Rules of Procedure is a motion to vote on mistrust and that's why we did it. All of the reasons behind the initiative, the government's response would be reduced to about one sentence, Minister Zuzul was not, nor could he have been in conflict of interest. As evidence of this, the state's attorney's office and the State's audit are in place. And by carefully reading these two documents, I agree that these two documents can serve as a basis for removing quotes of "severe suspicions of possible corruption". However, I expected that, apart from these institutions or primarily the Government would propose, Mr. Minister himself, that this subject be the work of the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest, not the State's Attorney's office, not the State's audits, but the Commission's. Today, a colleague of Caine's claimed a few minutes ago that the commissions were gone. I've been in all the sessions so far, and I don't remember making a decision on the resolution of the members of the Committee, that we've replaced them, abolished them, abolished the law or changed the law. And if I remember correctly the members elected in this Chamber are Mrs. Tomac, Ramljak, Mak, Mrs. Adlesic, Mrs. Byte and Mr...., six members never resolved, never removed and they still formally exist. So, the Committee is not asking for an opinion on this, although it is essentially "about a possible conflict of interest". But since we've already received the State Audit and Attorney's Office's report, then I need to remind you of some of the information that's being given in that report. In 2002 and 2003, there were five attempts by Imostroj, 20.5 last year by the bankruptcy manager requesting a write-off of debts to the state, 5.6 last year the finance ministry rejected the request. The sixth attempt to sell starts at the 4th month of this year, i.e. 14.6 former employees are again asking for write-offs from the Ministry of Finance, 20.7. The Ministry of Finance makes a proposal for such a decision and 2.9. The government makes that decision. The state's attorney's office further finds that the Commercial Court in Split launched its sixth sale attempt on 29 March this year. That the sale of property was awarded to Karin University on 26 April and that 5.7. by the Court of Justice had property and was committed to the buyer. It shall not be stated when the contract is concluded, when the funds have been paid, but 5.7. is therefore completed. So first the property was sold. At the same time, the process of write-offs is being initiated and I ask myself the question, why didn't the write-off go before the sale process? Maybe just because this time it's the customer that's been mentioned all along. In the motion to vote for mistrust, I will look back at three things that are listed. He took part in the decision-making process which resulted in the breakthrough of persons associated with the minister. In response, the government said that Mr. Minister was not even present at the session. That's right, that's what it says. But in public statements before and before that, and in public statements after that, it was undeniably said, and this can also be confirmed by counterpart Bekavac that Minister Zuzul had lobbyed and influenced the decision to be taken, regardless of the fact that he was not at the cabinet's session. The Commission's opinion on conflict of interest has not been requested. The Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest points to each state official if he is in doubt or doubt whether his behaviour might be a conflict of interest to inform or request the opinion of the Commission. That's what the law says. And in the end, he wasn't telling the truth about the fact that he was selling companies. The government explained it as a lapus. All right. Lapses began from the fact that MTS as a company owned by the minister's wife was first sold, so the contract was not consummated, so that no money was ever paid to the minister, nor to the husband or to the MTS, and then the money was paid anyway, but it was a loan between the two companies in which the same person was the director, Mr Karin, so he became the director of the company of MTS, although the contract was never consummated and the contract was signed when it was already initiated to break the contract. I think we're in a situation now that when it was estimated that lobbying or advocating for such a decision by the government was profitable we were all for it. However, when it becomes questionable, then we argue I was not at the session. And I return to that sentence that the minister was not or could have been in the conflict of interest that stands in the government's statement. That's right. He was not, nor could he have been in a conflict of interest, nor could he have been in a conflict of interest when he was a diplomat on Pliva's payroll, nor could he have been in a conflict of interest, nor could he have been as a former lobbyist of Bechtel, and later as a member of the government negotiated with Bechtel on the assignment of construction jobs on highways without a public tender. And finally, it wasn't, it couldn't be or will ever be in conflict of interest, that's the government's obvious. And when I read it and checked it out, believe me, you almost convinced me. And the government's obvious and Mr. Minister. It was a little short you didn't convince me. But somewhere around 91% of the citizens surveyed failed to convince them. So I suggest that tonight, when we vote on this, we count those hands of the Croatian public in addition to these hands in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27651	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27652	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Lesar, said it was essentially only about charges of conflict of interest. However, that is incorrect. These reports, which came from the State's Attorney's Office, have made it clear that the charges that have been made by you, a fellow representative, to Mr. Zuzul, are suspected of corruption and bribery, not just conflict of interest. And it is therefore important that state institutions gave their opinions, that they examined the whole case and discovered what they discovered, that they did not reveal any doubt or justification of these suspicions that there were any corruption and bribery and any criminal part of the crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27653	Thank you. Second correction by the respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27654	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting Mr. Lesar's claim that the government has written off the claims. The government did not write off the claims, but rather transferred the claims to the workers. So let's explain one more time. Karin paid Imostroy's assets 6 million and 200 thousand, and the government transferred claims to get those funds to the workers. I mean, that's quite clear, and the way Minister Zuzul now had his own interest. The government was even socially sensitive and it would have been expected from counterpart Lesar to support the proposal, well, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27655	Thank you. And the third correction, honourable representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27656	Mr. President. My colleague Lesar said the write-off didn't go before the sale, but after the sale, maybe just for the buyer. A colleague, Jandrokovic, corrected the first part, is not about the write-off. And the other part, I'll make it right for the buyer. The buyer has nothing to do with this. What he cares about is that he paid for the public tender that the competition showed and what he cared about who that money was going to go to. This has nothing to do with the buyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27657	And the fourth correction, the esteemed representative, Marian Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27658	Thank you very much, Mr. President, my dear colleague has determined that the write-off of the debt was profitable. The esteemed colleague’s write-off was neither profitable nor profitable for Minister Zuzul nor for anyone else in the government but was profitable only for those 168 workers who received their back salaries and severances and there the government showed its social sensitivity as opposed to yours that changed the bankruptcy law and put the state in the first payment order and the workers in the second.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27659	Thank you. Foreign Minister Miomir Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27660	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I will look back later on some general, general issues such as the public issue and what is the place of the public in democracy because there seems to be some confusion here. But now I'd like to answer only two things Mr. Lesar said and I didn't have a chance before because they weren't mentioned before. He mentioned some of mine again, I don't know conflicts of interest, two cases. The Bechtel case that exactly appeared in the media, and one truly illustrating case of membership on the Pliva Supervisory Board. That's right, I worked for Bechtel for a while. I worked for a whole series of prominent world firms, and I don't hide it, nor am I ashamed, which I eventually published on my own, in my resume publicly published, long before it came to the media. But it's true that I stopped working for both Bechtel and all the other companies long before I became a minister. Early enough that you can't talk about any conflict. As it is also true that in the entire democratic world, both in America and in Europe, you have people who go from private business to politics, from politics to private business, and there are institutions whose duty is and the right to determine whether they are in conflict of interest. What's conveniently mentioned, sir, Mr. Lesar, that while I was working for Bechtel I most often met with a man from your party. Well, he's been working with Bechtel for four years and I haven't worked one moment since I've been in government, not one moment, not one day. An even drastic case, or drastic in this context, where I really am, I'm sorry to use such pathetic words, but where it really is a public lynch. The fact that I was a member of the Pliva Supervisory Board, I was at a time when the law allowed it, at a time when a whole series of state officials were and of course I was just as well as the second one paid, no secret, no big news discovery. And for example, what I should say is, at the same time, the distinguished representative from your party was a member of the Supervisory Board of Croatia Airlines and was given as much income as anyone else. E, however, when the Law was passed I came out of Pliva, he also came out of Croatia airlanes and, behold, the miracle who replaced him, his own wife who sits on that same board today, the state firm and until today receives compensation for it. I just want to tell you how different criteria can be applied, as well as the fact that it's a niche, in which, in my opinion, it's a devastating fact that, at a time when the law approved it, I was sitting on a supervisory board? Nothing but that fact gets away with, and you forget what I told you, what are the facts that I think might be discussed in a different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27661	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27662	Well, Mr. Secretary, I'm really sorry that you misunderstood me, I didn't say that you were in conflict of interest with Pliva, neither at Bechtel and I repeat, I said, he wasn't, he couldn't have been, he couldn't have been either at Pliva or Bechtella, so either you heard wrong or you assumed that I'd say what you said. And I ended up that, and I ended up being, he couldn't be, he couldn't be, and he could never be, so I didn't impute anything to you. And as for the supervisory boards and all that and business practice in the world, you're right, you're right, but you didn't mention diplomatic practice and the rules of diplomacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27663	I'm on comm. SDP club respected representative Ivica Racan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27664	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the SDP Club, I will not use the time allowed, I will not go into the details and problems and topics that we have on the agenda for two reasons. First because we're talking to each other and it's a big speech from the deaf. Here are the positions in advance, they are announced in advance. Secondly, I'm not going to talk about the details because this session of ours is not a public session in particular, the leadership skills it's put in late days and nights but it's not so late that, yes, but we are talking about the public's skills and it's legitimate in parliamentary life, so I'm not talking too critical about it. But the fact is also, and I would like to argue that we should not speak too closely about this matter, because everything we have heard so far in detail and concretely, whether it is about criticism or Mr. Zuzul's defence we have heard many times in the Croatian public, the elements of the criticism are known, the elements of the interpretation of the facts, too, and Mr. Zuzul himself has been publicly present enough to hear and what he has to say. And it's hard for us to add something really new here. Which does not mean that this problem ends with a debate at the Croatian Parliament. Because the way the affairs were going down for Mr. Minister, I'm not looking forward to it if that's true, the question is whether it's going to end with this debate. What I'm saying is, based on the facts available, and also the different interpretations of these facts in the public opinion is very clear. The condemnation of most of the public, Mr. Zuzul's behaviour, too, his compromise for most of the Croatian public is unquestionable. We can write tomorrow perhaps essays about how righteous it is but then afterwards. What I want to say, however, quite precisely and once again here, is important for the Croatian Parliament to clarify some things definitely between us. It is not on the agenda to determine criminal responsibility. We have an obligation to make a strict distinction between criminal, moral and political responsibilities. With criminal responsibility, we know how it is handled, there are competent institutions, there is a law, a determination by the court whether the law is broken, and if the law is violated, it is measured after the proceedings have been carried out. But when it comes to political and moral responsibility, things are different and not so simple, we don't always agree on whether to withdraw or not political and moral responsibility because there are differences in what politics is and what morality is. What is politically allowed and what is morally allowed. I would argue, here, that in these 14, 15 years of independent Croatia and here we record the development which is politically and morally allowed and which is not. The job of the Croatian Democratic State is to strengthen the criteria that are politically and morally permitted and not. It is a task that stands before this honorable House and if we do not do and remain, we remain at that level of political and moral responsibility that we had, I fear that the position of political structure and politicians in Croatia will remain definitely low. With such a situation, there is no democratic development, no democratic stability of one society. The position and option for other options shall be opened. I want to stress this without being dramatic. When I say, well, I guess you shouldn't insist on it too much that everything that's allowed by law doesn't have to be politically allowed and morally allowed. Of course, those who feel right or not to criticise, who seek moral and political responsibility for someone's behavior, can hide behind the criteria of criminal responsibility. As we had an example of the bad, bad defence of the foreign minister. There is no criminal responsibility, everything is fine with regard to political and moral responsibility. It is the worst blow, in my opinion, a major blow to the democratic option in Croatia that needs to be strengthened. What I'm also trying to say is, I'm going to give an example of what we just heard. Of course, if a diplomat receives, has a steady income from a single company, it is not in conflict with the law and there is no problem. It doesn't even have to be too much in, although it probably doesn't comply with the Vienna Convention when it comes to diplomats and their incomes, but let's put it aside too. We let the Vienna Convention aside and our relationship with it, but whether it's moral, that's the question. That leaves the question of whether it's moral. Of course I don't think it's as moral as most of the Croatian public thinks that the wealth of government officials during their duties and beyond the wages they receive is not moral. And we have had an unorthodox situation that many state officials, to grow to them, is increasing property during their performance as state officials and, of course, there can be no talk of public trust in the political structure, according to politicians and, let me say that to the parliamentary representatives. I'll say more of this. The affairs, the untrue, the inadequate reactions, we had the opportunity to see it exactly in the case of Minister Zuzul. Messing about what to say to the public who are following any official is not and can't be a matter of just that official if he performs a very responsible duty. In this case it is a matter, it is also the responsibility of the Croatian government. This was about other people's experiences. I have often heard, knowing the well-known American experience of Minister Zuzul, calling for his and American political experiences, aside from her being in a certain part and different from the European ones, but let's stay in those American experiences. In America, as well as the known compromised members of the government are called "laim duck", in translation, if I'm not mistaken, "whispering duck". It's about people who are compromised, who the government protects and defends, who are compromised in public, but if the government protects and defends them, then it goes down in public and the reputation of the entire government. The government can insist on defence of such a minister as we see in this case that the Croatian government has persisted, but then it is logical that the reputation of the Croatian government will also fall public. Of course, this may be someone's issue, but there are elections in the democratic system and elections will show the reputation of the government that protects the compromised minister. What is here, and I end up here, particularly controversially is not entering perhaps some and accusations that cannot be argued, which could have been heard in relation to the foreign minister. The fact remains that credibility, the credibility of the minister has fallen, and this is about a minister representing Croatia abroad, it is also about our negotiating team head when it comes to negotiations very delicate, which I hope will take place at the scheduled time with the planned decision of the European Union on negotiations between Croatia and the European Union. All this says that he can not only be a matter of the minister, a matter of the government, but of the whole of Croatia. Determination of political responsibility and moral responsibility is, of course, the issue of that body that chooses someone whose responsibility it is. It's also a matter of the body whose member is the one whose moral, political responsibility can be involved. But of course, it's a thing like said here by the political public who has its own court and if it is its court, and in this case it is evident, and different from the public court, if the government's court is different from the public court, then the government has put itself on the agenda in view of its part of political and moral responsibility. Of course, to finish, the SDP Club remains on the proposal we made on the vote of mistrust to Minister Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27665	Thank you very much. In 19 and 59, it was time for a 10-minute debate. We have 8 corrections of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27666	Thank you, Mr. President. In a series of false, incorrect allegations, I'll only list some and correct them, of course. Says colleague Racan, this isn't about criminal responsibility. So, colleague Racan, why did you sign a document saying "in the whole case of Imostroy" there's a strong suspicion of corruption." So what's corruption? You say, "The truth has been made public more than once." No, on the contrary, the lie was made public as in this case, specifically, in your document that you have proposed here to us parliamentary representatives, you say, "he has denied the fact that he is related to the buyer of companies whose debt the government has written off." Obviously you're not familiar with the case, read the material and the review report, and you'll see that you're telling the truth. So the truth has been made public more than once, not the truth. And third, you say "this is the strongest blow to the democratic option", that's the audit report, the State's Attorney's report. So can the State's Attorney's report be a blow to the democratic option? What are you talking about? And we'll talk about morality later, about morality, and about who it is to whom it pleases we'll later in our... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27667	Thank you. Dear Representative Drazen Bošnjaković, second correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27668	A respected colleague said the defence minister is unacceptable because he said that when there is no criminal responsibility there is no moral responsibility in terms of the consequences of criminal responsibility. The minister made it very clear that he has neither political nor moral nor criminal responsibility. So each category separately and I allow and this is indeed exactly the moral category of responsibility. It includes all these others. She's the widest. And the minister thought it was really separate here when he said it. And as for the second correction of the allegations that the minister's credibility has fallen, that's also not true. I think after this proposal, the credibility of those who have submitted this proposal will be questioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27669	Third, respected representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27670	Dear and esteemed Mr. Racan, your thesis on political responsibility is completely incorrect. Political responsibility lies ahead of the party, but before the public. She cannot, in my humble opinion, be a debate here in the Croatian Parliament. I could say that you too are politically responsible for this because your government, because your government has written off a far larger amount, far greater, but I therefore thank you Dalmatinka, Sinj. Thus, in Sinj, we do not think that you would be politically responsible and that we would be discussed today or at any other time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27671	Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27672	Mr. President, dear colleague Racan incorrectly said the following quote: "This is about hiding moral and political responsibility and criminal responsibilities. The absolutely incorrect allegation because page 2 of the reasons for the proposed decision literally states: "In the whole case "There is a strong suspicion of corruption." The suspicion of corruption is not a category or moral, but a clean category of criminal law and about this suspicion of corruption can only give a measuring opinion to the State's Attorney's office. But when it did, and there's no basis for doubting that a crime was committed...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27673	I'd like to pray, please, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27674	Then we use some other categories that, in the sense of reason, of course, fit you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27675	Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27676	Mr. President Racan said it was not a criminal responsibility but a moral political responsibility. That is not true, that is not true because in democracy and moral and political and moral-political responsibility is based on facts as well as criminal responsibility. And only in those days was the moral political resemblance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27677	Dear Representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27678	Dear Mr. President, counterpart Racan said, "The government is protecting the compromised minister." During today's debate, Minister Zuzul, you did not prove by any single argument that he had committed something immoral and politically unacceptable. For this reason, it is incorrect that Mr. Zuzul is a compromised minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27679	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27680	Mr. President, a colleague of Racan said that, as he called it, tampering, is a matter of government. I know from practice that people who interfere are usually unprepared and attacked. And usually, and usually they're not always guilty. Mr. Racan, the ministers of your government who have been rich at the expense of the state have never interfered. They were coming up with a parallel defense.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27681	Dear Representative Marian Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27682	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague, Racan, claimed Croatia's reputation has fallen because of a compromised minister. Croatia's reputation has fallen due to the way the public in connection with part of the opposition is discredited by Minister Zuzula on the basis of false structures, and we will discuss Mr Racan's morale later in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27683	On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, respected representative, Vice President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27684	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, Mr. President. As this debate sets aside this proposal for a vote of no confidence, it is becoming weaker and thinner. It was very clear what would be said because the arguments are thin and then the proposal follows the fate of the arguments. It was established here in the opening statement that it irrevocably violated Croatian Prime Minister Zuzul's reputation. "The important damages to the interests, reputation and credibility of the Republic of Croatia have been done," these are all quotes, and here are the statements of individual and claims as if we were in court. However, we are not in the courtroom, we are in the Croatian Parliament and we do not need to lose sight of that fact. It was stated here that the company "Imo Machine" was sold to Karina, Ivan Karina. It wasn't sold to Ivan Karin, but part of the property was sold to Ivan Karin, and the company remained the same as it was only with smaller assets. A significantly smaller asset. Now, Mr. Lesar, who is one of these initiators of no confidence vote, claims that there is a Commission for Conflict of Interest. Perhaps there is, I haven't noticed it in the last days and months that this commission exists at all, especially since the acting president of the commission has resigned. So if there's that commission, I ask Mr. Lesar why he didn't address that commission to determine a potential conflict of interest when he claims that this commission exists. Why do you hit your head like this right now? We have a commission. Let him determine it. And if some people remembered that there was a Parliament before, that the government existed and that there were ministers who were in this assembly troubled by conflicts of interest, etc. Then I would have this debate by Mr. Racan, which was very encouraging, which calls for moral and political responsibility. Not criminal, because there needs to be a process but moral and political responsibility, I would be happy if he had shown it in relation to his ministers when their status and their position were troubled. This is not how I can believe you because you later remembered these moral and political responsibilities after you missed your ministers to finish their mandate. I'm interested in all of this that claim that happened to Mr. Karine, and he's connected to Minister Zuzul, and now I don't know what he's into, I guess he paid less of that company because, because the government gave up money for the benefit of the workers. Is it really a smaller number after that or is it the same? Because if she's the same Ivan Karin, it doesn't matter who she ends up with. He'll either end up in the government, as far as he's concerned, or it'll be divided into workers. Well now ex, here's union officials looking to bet now... The workers get paid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not talking. They're saying something else now. If I wasn't here, I don't want to defend Miomir Zuzul at all, he said everything, all the facts. I'm not here on behalf of the club to defend him. The HDZ Club will talk about facts, facts, and the observation that this debate is happening without the public being present I don't know how it would be possible for it to start at 9:30 this morning, because we had a TV agenda point, and then we discussed television. Maybe television isn't important, and now some ranking of these agenda points should determine which points are important to get on TV and which ones are not. Do we have a consensus about it, because I think it's a far more important point about television than what we're going to spend so much time here? And one more thing I noticed. We weren't there when the budget was being debated, not nearly as close as we are tonight. And is the budget irrelevant to the agenda, or is it perhaps the most important in the course of one year? That's what Mr. Racan said. That's what we put out here. Well, I take that back from him, is it? In one word, if Mr. Karin paid less than the court or there this perpetrator, as it is said, a bankruptcy manager or I don't know who ordered it, then it can be said that he was favored. Otherwise, this is all another bow and water, and I suggest that, in order to shorten the debate so that we can all sleep normally and tomorrow get up chili for the third day of Parliament's session, because some new facts cannot be presented here, except for the naked claims of moral and political responsibility that Mr Racan missed in his government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27685	As soon as the applause's down, we'll move on. Honored representative Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the Croatian Party of Retired Party Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27686	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, Mr. Minister, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is irrelevant that we live in a country under pressure from severe social problems, unemployment, small wages, small pensions, pressured by growing violence against children, women and older people, in a country where one constant is ruled, and this constant is manifested in the constant of change. Unfortunately, most changes go from bad to worse. We live in a country where dissatisfaction increases and systematically encourages. And it would be wonderful to find a solution or find the culprit for everything. Unfortunately, since one swallow doesn't make spring, there's no blame for it. Of course, the public is right to ask if it is possible to do public work for the benefit of the common good in a short time to acquire a great asset, to legalize receipts, therefore, in an honest and honorable manner. Of course it's not possible. But if it's done, and it's legal, then it doesn't have to be fair or moral. The representatives of the Croatian Retirement Party have no interest in protecting Minister Zuzul from the court of the public, since we are not and will not be involved in similar cases and we have submitted our property cards neatly to the Committee for Conflict of Interest. However, we cannot also accept that under pressure from public emotion, emotion in the public, we turn the assembly into a courtroom. The basis of the Croatian Party's policy is the legality and respect of the rule of law, which requires us to act according to the law in this case and according to what we have just brought, that is, this House. I remind you, on 16 October 2003, we adopted the Law on conflict of interest, and this year we established the Commission for the conflict of interest which we authorised to determine all facts and qualify whether the official is in conflict of interest. The Commission's work is initially systematically obstructed by both the position and the opposition, and everything is covered by the inability of the agreement or by the lack of political will, which is a worn out political flossule when something seems to be aimed at never being resolved. Our voters and wider citizens are disgusted by the procedures of highly-positioned politicians to throw mud at their positions in an attempt to turn everything into a political circus. The Croatian party of pensioners in such a political game does not want to participate, however attractive and politically procreative. If at this point we don't give priority to reason over feelings, if we don't give priority to the law over the links policy, we'll make a long-term mistake. Why? Because we are obliged for our children to build a successful state, and by scientific knowledge these are organised countries that enforce their laws. So I invite you without exception, colleagues and colleagues, to breathe our lives into the Law of Conflict of Interest, to make efforts to establish the Committee and to start with normal work, to review property cards and to determine who is all of the officials in the conflict of interest. I remind you that we are all under oath to perform an honorable duty, in accordance with the law, to which we are elected by the citizens of Croatia. Otherwise, if we are not able to implement the law that applies to us and we are not worthy of the duties we are chosen to do. Croatia's party to pensioners in these years, Croatia's party of pensioners, in these year's parliamentary experience, proves its principle through the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision on the compensation of pensioners and now, instead of voting mistrust to Minister Zuzul, which would not even for a millimeter move Croatia from the 67th position of corruption, Croatia's party of pensioners offers a stronger and stronger goal, a goal worth fighting for, and this is an account with all suspicions of corruption and conflict of interest, among state officials through consistent implementation of the Law on conflict of interest. Unlike the search procedures for Pedro with which we will never rise from the fungi in which this country is involved, we are looking for the functioning of a system that will surely move us on a scale of corruption and improve Croatia's credibility. The Croatian party of pensioners expected Minister Zuzul to place his mandate at the disposal of the Prime Minister, Mr Ivo Sanader, at the disposal of the President of the Republic of Croatia until the Commission's assessment of the conflict of interest, no matter what. But that's our attitude. The minister acted on his conscience. For us, unequivocally conflict of interest is a moral issue and the finding of a state-level attorney who does not establish illegal proceedings is no guarantee that the official is not in conflict of interest. It is precisely a conflict of interest of the category in which actions at the edge of the law or the art of avoiding the law are appropriate and obtaining privileged position and personal breakthrough because of the principle and consistency and direction towards the implementation of the laws that we have passed in this House, as well as by favouring the whole over one part, that the Croatian party of the pensioners will, in this case, be restrained and conditional. We are doing this because we appreciate our voters who have obliged us to make positive moves for them, but they have obliged us to succeed in this project and to follow reason and facts, not feelings and not forgive anyone for mistakes, so we are doing so at this point. We don't amnesty Minister Zuzul, we don't wash our hands, but we don't get dirty, we all commit to efficiency. When I say that we are abstentions, it means that within 100 days, we expect it to coincide with March 8, 2005, we expect that the Commission's finding of conflict of interest in the case of Minister Zuzul and all officials covered by the Law on Conflict of Interest should be substantiated. The Croatian party of pensioners daily demonstrates its principle and fairness despite the aspirations of individual political options and the structure of a society that wants to show the pension Corps the burden of society. Fortunately for Croatia, the pension Corps is a resource and conscience of Croatia and try to perceive it that way. Respecting this, the Croatian Party of Retirement will monitor and assess the development of the situation and identify those who obstruct the constitution and work of the Committee for Conflict of Interest and, if necessary, renew this or similar proceedings. It's not meant to be here today, and you shouldn't be drilling into a hero's chest. Moral political responsibility is reflected in the elections and the specific responsibility of each of our individuals, either individually or in a party in front of our citizens, but should not be pushed into the chest because a more precise analysis would find a lot of limping ducks in this story, but also powerful men who have done their part and done harm to the development of Croatia and its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27687	Thank you very much. The HSS club, the respected representative of Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27688	Thank you, Mr. President. Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. "A real and fair policy is the hardest job in the world," Stjepan Radic wrote in 1912. He says: "In politics one must be thoughtful, persistent, and insufferable, but also immeasurably patient." Nor did the Law on preventing conflicts of interest in the conduct of its, public duties, which in its Article 5, states: "Obligators in the conduct of public duties must act with honor, conscientiously, responsibly and impartially to safeguard their own credibility and dignity of their entrusted duties and the trust of the citizens." So a politician must have the trust of the citizens, and in order to have it he must maintain his own credibility. Its own credibility is built, but it preserves, above all, the way of life, behavior, and, of course, a statement. The threat of his own credibility to the state official violates the dignity of his entrusted duty, and the official loses the citizens' trust. Minister Zuzula's credibility was significantly threatened by events related to the forgetting of tax payments, even the fee of payment with a illogical and unsustainable explanation did not restore confidence. Not long after that, there was an affair with Bechtel. Giving up intently under pressure from authorities, supporting and supporting Prime Minister Sanader and the entire government has not restored credibility, nor has confidence been raised. To the still unforgettable, there continues to be a threat to their own credibility in different and mutually opposite statements related to the Imostroj case from Imotski, i.e. the buyer of the property "Imostroja" in bankruptcy and the company owned by the wife of Mr. Zuzula. The normal consequence of all this is the loss of citizens' trust and the examination of public opinion. One who does not have the trust of the people cannot act in honor of the duties of government officials. So the apparent loss of credibility as to why it is guilty of Mr. Zuzul himself, which is due only to a loss of trust, is why the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party is proposing to this Parliament the vote of mistrust of the Foreign Minister. Starting with the motives of the proposal, we are inadmissible from the argument of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which claims, and at its request, the attorney general very quickly confirms that there is no criminal offence. Whether or not there is a criminal liability at this time for a decision under this proposal is completely irrelevant. Our belief is backed by the citizens' opinion, as as many as 66% of respondents believe Minister Zuzul should resign. Even 77% of respondents believe they are in conflict of interest. Contrary to the citizens, the Government of the Republic of Croatia says in its obvious, I quote: "Miomir Zuzul was neither in a conflict of interest nor could he have been in any way in violation of any provision of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest" completed the quote. Here is actually the reason why we support statements published today in the paper on the arrogance and arrogance of party officials who are also state officials. It is evident from this evidence that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted the powers of the relevant parliamentary Commission for the conflict of interest. Whether or not someone is in conflict of interest on the basis of an investigation can determine only the Commission and no one else, in this case the Government, in particular the Government whose members are subject to an investigation of conflicts of interest. Now that the masks are falling, it becomes more clear why so far with serious work the Commission has not begun. It is burdened with the affair already in the elections, i.e. the appointment of members when the ruling party has clearly demonstrated the will that has turned into a will to decide on members of the Committee of the Orders of the opposition. The Cranje Commission could not work because, if necessary, it was left without a quorum, according to the opinion expressed and the observation of the former president himself. When it could not be manipulated by the quorum, some members were resolved and a new decision was appointed, and that decision was made by the Parliament towards the unsavoured eyewitnesses. Why all these unnecessarys that compromise trust in the work of the commission? As in this case, the government took over the Commission's powers and self-initiativeally and on its own free will, it is now clear to all that the ruling coalition, and especially the Government Committee, is not needed. Apparently, it suits them that the Commission has no way of protecting their own members, while at the same time doing the unfounded defamation of all its political opponents, whom they consider to be useful at a certain point in time for the government. However, it is fortunate that their own sins are not and cannot be excused by alleged wrongs that prove public opinion. 66% of respondents believe that Mr. Zuzul should resign and 77% think he is in conflict of interest. With his statements that changed from day to day which were contradictory, Mr. Zuzul himself formed a public opinion, of course the contribution was made both by the property card and the unpaid tax and by Bechtel. So it's not the opposition, it's the reckless, stupid and contradictory statements that didn't give a logical explanation for the existence or the removal of suspicion. Although the government tried to explain Mr. Zuzul's innocence that, with the opinion of the state attorney, the opinion of the state's audit failed to remove the illogicalities that created the public opinion. The government says, and the state's attorney and audit confirm that it has waived its claim from Imostroy in bankruptcy of HRK 6,242 million just to enable the reconciliation of the demand for workers who have not received their salary for three years. It's a human decision. However, the decision is conditional. And the condition is that the buyer of the property of the creditor guarantees the employment of at least 20 former employees completed a quote. Who's the buyer of the property of a creditor. The buyer is Karin universal engineering d.o.o. So the co-owner of the company MTS whose 100% owner was Mr. Zuzul's wife and which 50% stake sold Karin to universal engineering. As the government stresses, the buyer of the property of the creditor has no obligation to Imostroy and thus their former workers not to be held accountable for his obligations is completely unclear from which interest the buyer would assume the obligation to employ at least 20 former employees. Just to give up claims in favour of workers, it's hard to believe but who's the buyer of Imostroy's assets in bankruptcy. In April 2004, the property purchases Karin universal engineering owned by Ivan Karin from Grubin. The owner of the company Karin universal d.o.o. Over which is the ultimate oblivion for the payment of the debt. The creditor is no less or less the State to which the listed company with a tax base is listed on 12. 11. In 2004, he owed a million 175 thousand 28.8 kuna. And with the customs base, he owes another million 601 thousand 925, 25 kuna. Too many coincidences so there wouldn't be any doubt. A state official buys the property of a creditor and does not have any obligations to the creditors and, however, after the Government's decision, the co-owner of a company with the minister's wife buys the property of a creditor. Nine. In 2004, it assumes the obligation to employ 20 former workers only to give up claims in favour of workers. Why? There's no logical answer, and there's no doubt left. However, we believe that it is not up to us to investigate details but it is up to us to determine whether there is a political responsibility for those who have lost credibility by their actions and based on it and citizens' trust. Since Mr. Zuzul has lost credibility in this case and has lost confidence because he has not given a convincing explanation, he has made false, contradictory statements and thus only increased his suspicions and does not wish to resign as a moral act, nor does the prime minister want to sanction him politically, we believe that this House should do so. And that is why the HSS Representatives Club supports the decision to resolve Minister Zuzul by stressing Mr. Zuzul's failure to remove his suspicion, thus contributing to his loss of credibility, thus losing his trust and therefore it is moral for this Parliament to make the proposed decision that was proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27689	The format of this communication is not envisaged, this form of communication is not envisaged. Let these emotional spills be for the right place. Tonight is the first record, 11 corrections of incorrect allegations to you. Well, let's take it in a row. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27690	I thank Mr. President, obviously this large number of corrections of incorrect allegations will lead to us correcting the whole speech, which is actually the goal. So, the first incorrect allegation says, at the request of the government, counterpart Lalic says at the government's request, the state's attorney confirms that there is no criminal responsibility. It is not true that at the government's request, because Mr. Zuzul himself asked the state's attorney to examine whether there was any reasonable doubt in this case, therefore, on the basis of the fact that the state's attorney's office has concluded that it does not exist. You say that from the ranks of the position, you decide on the members of the opposition that will be in the committee of prevention... it is not true that you have failed to agree on the example of the CNS and the rest of you who have failed to agree which two members and third and presently the same situation, and today you are also not prepared to agree on who will be in that commission. And third, you say the Parliament made a decision without a quorum to the eyewitnesses, it's not true. You were supposed to be in the Parliament, so you'd know the decision was made with the quorum.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27691	Second correction, the respected representative Kresimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27692	Mrs. Lalic claimed the following for losing her credibility, she said she was guilty of Minister Zuzul himself, it is simply not true. The possible damage to the credibility of the foreign minister is blamed for a well-organised and orchestrated political media campaign like in old times. First moral responsibility, then political and ultimately third criminal. That's how it used to be done and it can't be done anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27693	Third correction, respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27694	I'll have to correct my dear colleague Lalic's statement, but she said...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27695	That's how love is born, hidden.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27696	Mrs Lalic said the government has adopted the powers of the commission for conflict of interest, it is simply not true. And what's true is that Mrs. Lalic has not made a single serious argument about the replacement of Minister Zuzula. And finally to smooth out our misunderstandings, I'm going to give Mrs. Lalic one of the HDZ's candy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27697	The true love of oblivion is gone. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27698	Mr. President, in her inspired presentation, esteemed colleague Lalic said the following incorrect quote: "The government serves to prevent conflicts of interest in dealing with political inexperiences". It's not true. It's not true. This is a working body that has no direct connection with the government or is appointed by the government, which is therefore a parliamentary working body that should decide to prevent conflicts of interest. That's one thing. And secondly, that Minister Zuzul has lost confidence. Excuse me, Mr. President, this little break... Minister Zuzul has not lost his trust, perhaps your trust, but I doubt he ever had it from you honestly. Thank you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27699	Dear Representative Marian Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27700	Thank you very much, Mr. President. counterpart Lalic argued that the government is responding that there is no commission to prevent conflicts of interest, which is not true. The commission was a mole for reasons why the opposition could not agree on a seventh member. So it is likely that they feared that some former ministers from their government would not come under the influence of the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27701	Perhaps even after this happy hapy end between Mrs Lalic and Gordan Jandrokovic could give up on these others, from correcting incorrect allegations... Because that's, if you agree. ... [[Applause.]] All right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then we'll see in a row.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27702	I quit because Mr. Jandrokovic corrected my allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27703	Vladimir Plesko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27704	At the president's request, I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27705	Zdenka Babić-Petrichevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27706	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleague, my friend, it is not true that Minister Zuzul does not enjoy the trust of the people,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27707	All the expressions of love, from all sides.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27708	The people's trust, minister, with the trust of the people, Minister Zuzul came to the Croatian Parliament and was a representative one day in the Croatian Parliament, then the prime minister of the Croatian government, and today the president of the Croatian government, with the ruling majority, entrusted him with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This trust has not been played today and it enjoys our 100% trust. The other corrections to the incorrect quote I will correct in my debate, and as for the falling masks, when masks fall, and Kanebo make up won't help anyone on this side, and that's the best Kanebo make up, I use it. I'll give it to you... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27709	All right, well, let's let the masks go now, let's go. Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27710	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Minister. I will correct the inaccuracies where it was established with Ms Lalic that the Government of the Republic of Croatia took over the powers and commission of conflict of interest on its own and on its own. This is not an exact allegation, but it is true that it acted in accordance with its powers and legitimately only after the State's Attorney's Office and the State's audit as legal and legitimate state institutions authorised for investigations and audits. But you forgot Mrs. Lalic that you had both in your government and with your ministers and criminal convictions in the first and second degree and did not respond in time to them throughout your term.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27711	Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27712	Here, Mr. President, my colleague...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27713	My colleague, please help my colleague Lalić. You can see she's looking for a license plate, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and don't let your love be blind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27714	counterpart Lalic said the government wrote off the debt to the buyer on condition that he employs 20 workers. It's not true either, nor did she write off the debt to the buyer, the buyer has nothing to do with it, nor did it have to do with the employment of 20 workers. 20 employees were taken over during a tender in the Commercial Court with that offer of money and employment of 20 workers and this has nothing to do with this decision... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27715	And respected representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27716	Dear Mr. President, it is incorrect from earlier appearances, and this is evident from the performance of the distinguished representative Lalić, that Mr. Zuzul is at all the subject of debate, because he is talking about awkwardness, thoughtless statement, the results of some polls, and the truths nowhere, then I guess it's clear that this is how people analytically see that it's not really that. So this is what you'd say. Your arguments are thin, gentlemen. However, this is all about something else, and I will talk about it in my discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27717	Thank you. And respected representative Anto Djapic, Club of HSP Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27718	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Now he'll have to try to get back into the debate after this outpouring, I'd say moods, which doesn't necessarily mean bad either, which means the situation for Minister Zuzula wasn't as bad as it looked 15 days ago, no, when it all started. In fact, in Croatia, we have held that the problem of conflict of interest is one of the main problems that otherwise burdens Croatia, Croatian society and the fact that it is because of this and for years we have fought and fought both during the time of the previous Assembly's Assembly to make the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, so the law has been made since the years of fighting in the Croatian Parliament and after the joint working group of the last Government and the Croatian Party of Rights already in 13.6.2003. But he is in a variety of political ways, I would say games, or not wanting to live in the past Suzie, but in this Assembly of the Croatian Parliament, and after that we know how much peripetia and difficulty in finding out the commission of conflict of interest in which I agree, in part, that part of the responsibility lies with the Croatian parliamentary opposition, but certainly the ruling majority is not entirely immune from its part of responsibility when the first Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests is formed. The good side of this debate was that five, six years ago it was unimaginable to discuss the credibility of a minister in the Croatian Parliament because of conflicts of interest. So the action that we've been taking all these years has finally paid off and whether it was at the right time and with the right man will show the time, but to discuss the conflict of interest as a problem that finally brought Croatia to the 67th place of corruption is already, I say the good thing, I'm sure Minister Zuzul would like not to have such a debate about his name. But the joke aside, here we are, speakers before me were able to go beyond the subject which was fairly located by the interpretation of one affair, this affair of Imostroy, so there was also talk about Bechtel, there were talks about tax evasion and some other things, which I think finally led to divorce and led to a more joyful and relaxed atmosphere that didn't get into the very essence of the problem. We in Croatia have not signed an interpretation because we wanted to wait for the first moment, see exactly what is being done so that in the process that followed we could take clearer views and determine ourselves according to the initiative of three parliamentary opposition parties. It was seen that we were finally and right about it, because today's debate and developments in recent days are still saying that often some of the situations in Croatia are used primarily for political accounts that do not have much to do with the true content of what it wants formally to achieve outside, so practically everything comes down to the story of the moral political credibility of individual ministers. In the HSP, we believe that the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest was the key body which had to and should have decided, and if the Committee made a proposal and decided that some minister would resign, he would not want to do so, in which case it would have to respond to a parliamentary session, so the Croatian Parliament. This is how we took over the role, so the Croatian Parliament is the role of the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest, which is certainly not good. It is not a good thing when the Croatian Parliament turns into a courtroom in any way, I know it well, because in 92 years I was practically in a political courtroom in the Croatian Parliament when immunity was lifted for the destruction of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, some here were rare at that session, so I know well how I felt then. However, we are where we are now. We believe that Minister Zuzul made a very strategic very important mistake, and it was a mistake that in the first appearances of the media problems about this affair in our opinion, my personal and party opinion he needed to point the matter towards state institutions, without making statements that were really contradictory and which made him more trouble later than all this else that had happened. Because he did it, things were going through the process that happened. However, we are also of the view that this is primarily a problem for him personally, his parties. And in the part where counterpart Racan also said that the credibility of the foreign minister and the problem and the whole nation, and also the problem of the whole Parliament, in that part we can agree on in part. However, when we talk about credibility, we have already been reserved for interpretation, because life does not accept dissonance, life does not accept double standards, it may be done to a certain limit, but when it comes to conflict of interest, then it is not the most important thing that is said, but also who is talking. And in that direction we, and therefore we were reserved to wait, of course, to make it clear that if a conflict of interest is determined that we... discharge of Minister Zuzula from the function he is acting. There's been a lot of talk here about the public court. Yes, the court of the public is, he's always right. The public when something, she reacts instinctively, she is often right, and no serious politician could go against the public court. But I want to remind you, so in this case, the public is probably right. But there were still similar views of the public, so it was not unfortunately handled by the public, their court. I'll remind only some, let's say one of them was that General Bobetko should not be extradited to The Hague tribunal 80% was a public attitude. So the speech is that General Gotovina, the court of the public was the same 80%, that he was a Croatian war hero, that he wasn't such a Hague, etc. So 80% of the public were against President Sanader going to Belgrade as well, you know. And there was even one poll that said on a show that I was 80%... that the HSPs should be in the government, not the SDSS. You know, everything, and the court of the public was very interesting 80% were given such qualifications and such assessments. And of course the Croatian Parliament must also take care of such situations. And of course, to a good extent such a political party is taking care of both its credibility and its reinting and I would also say with caution that the public would not misread certain moves, it must be properly... limits the court to the public, but of course not always. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] What can we actually do as a club, and how will we behave in all this? Mr. Minister, you see your coalition partners don't really support you in the sense that they support you. ... They will be restrained. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] In the direction of... like it's actually being supported by a de facto. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the minister's shift needs to have 77 hands to resolve, and then here later they don't even count. We got the impression that even the opposition didn't do everything if she wanted to resolve Minister Zuzul, there was neither real coordination nor any real agreement, conversations or arguments, or even today when the debate was obvious that all clubs were also said poored at the time of the vote for various reasons, whether it was a late parliamentary debate, whether any other motives were, at this point, not important. In any case, we, as a party, hold that Minister Zuzul should have given a mandate at his government's disposal, so if he refuses, then it could go into some other steps. And we believe that this is otherwise the problem of the ruling majority, and we as a party have decided to leave the case to our members in this case that every member of our club is voting on his conscience at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27719	Thank you very much. We've closed up the club debate. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27720	Dear President of the House, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. There are two kinds of responsibilities. Penalty and political. The government is deluded when it says and when it is capable if there is no criminal responsibility, there is no political one. When the government speaks like that, it either doesn't know what it's talking about or deliberately clouding the water. The criminal responsibility is determined by the courts, not by Parliament. Therefore, there is no point in talking about any criminal responsibility in Parliament. Political responsibility determines politics and the public. Media transmission. When does political responsibility arise? Well, when some politician takes his behavior against principles, the principles of public duty. It's like Kant's categorical imperative, "Trust it so you can want the principle of your action to become a general principle." So how was Minister Zuzul's behavior yours? What was your behavior so that it could be concluded that you came to him contrary to the principles of public duty. In your case, the affair is catching up. I almost don't have time to count all those affairs in a 10-minute debate. You were a respected professor at the Faculty of Philosophy, a prominent member of the HDZ. So at the time of privatisation, they became the owner of the stocking factory, which the socks sold to the Ministry of Defence while Minister Gojko Sušak was. As HDZ lost power, the factory went bankrupt. Well, then, while you were an ambassador to Washington, there was some sort of style furniture purchased for $35,000, which you don't know where it is. So the Ministry of Foreign Affairs carried out some kind of internal control and forwarded the entire file to the State's Attorney's office. I went to the state's attorney's office to get me that file, see what it was about. Is there any slandering of you, or is there any debauchery of you, or is there something in there? But I can't get that file because it's marked a state secret. The attorney's truth God, he asks the government to take down the designation of state secrets, because I really don't know what would be dangerous for the country's safety, why it would be a secret how the style furniture was obtained and where that furniture was located. I don't need to mention that the government doesn't take down that designation of state secrets. But Minister Zuzul, I also addressed you with a parliamentary question, written to tell me where that furniture is, I didn't get it, answer that question, at least not until the beginning of this debate. Well then, Minister Zuzul, the unpaid tax, so he's paid, he's paid, but when, when, when the press found out you didn't pay him. Well, look, that's all it would take to resign. You know when a high-ranking state official who has to be an example of behavior doesn't pay taxes but only when the paper says he didn't pay for it. That would already be enough to resign. Well, then, in this whole case, Imostroy and your MTS, it's true, a lie was made that there was no payment traffic between Imostroy and MTS. When does the testimony change? When the evidence shows up that the pay traffic was there. Then when the evidence appears, when the evidence is revealed, then the testimony is changed, and that falsehood is declared a lapse. In doing so, the word lie or untrue received another same word in Croatian, which is a lapsuz, it is a government. Look around all of this Imostroy and MTS, so that's a whole series of misunderstandings. Whether Karin became co-owner or not became co-owner. So whether this treaty of yours, or your wives, has been annulled with it or not. Well, if it wasn't for payment traffic, then it was found to be, but you say it was loans. So it was found that loans weren't actually loans, they were paid by invoices. So a whole series of tamperings, the misunderstandings you haven't had since the beginning of a clear consistent answer to say here, it was like that and there's nothing controversial about it. But you say that and the next day there's some other fact that you later explain in a new statement that you're changing again in two days. Well, then this is the latest one. This relationship between Croatia's leadership and your MTS again. Well, look, this headship of Croatia is some kind of NGO non-profit association. The president of this non-profit association that you are is Ivan Misetic, of course the president of the Croatian Airlanes administration. So yesterday we are in the budget, the day before yesterday, when we voted in the budget, Croatia's Airlanes has the funds from the budget, and that Croatia Airlanes is paying the money as well as many others, it is not the only one, as well as many others are paying the money in that management and watch out for it, the different companies that private, which in two years total donated to that association to a non-profit 827 thousand kuna. What did the association do? She only organised two seminars on ethics in business. Well, it's a very interesting topic. Ethics in business. And that's exactly what this association got 827 thousand kuna from state-owned companies, organized two seminars, but imagine from, from the state register, it got the money, transferred 109 thousand and 500 kuna to MTS. Minister Zuzul, in short, we cannot now go into the investigation, not this body that will all these allegations, all these affairs examined until in detail but you have lost confidence, you unfortunately lost the citizens' trust, 2/3 of the citizens, 2/3 of the respondents are asking you to step down. You know what, which might be the biggest damage in all of this. Be careful, you have violated a picture of politicians who are not good in the Croatian public anyway, you with your conduct and with your stubborn insistence to remain in office, you are sending a message to the public that all is permitted to the politician. He's allowed not to pay taxes. He is allowed to buy furniture that disappears, he is allowed to tell the truth, he is allowed to receive 140 thousand kuna from Imostroy, another 109 thousand 500 kuna from Croatia's leadership forum, so he is allowed to do what he wants. So you can ministers, you can, as long as the parliamentary majority protects you, so it's quite clear, it's quite clear but understand it's first offensive to the public and it's arrogant, it's arrogant. And that's not what Nenad Stazic says, so that's what Branimir Glavas tells you, HDZ is still arrogant. That's what you say from your ranks. So, therefore, Minister, please show that you appreciate the public who thinks ill of you. Show that you love your country, that you want to serve its best interests, please stop this situation that is distressing for you, which is painful for your party, which is painful for the government of which you are a member and which is painful for the country you represent. Minister Zuzul, stand down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27721	Thank you very much. Here, we'll give the word to Minister Zuzul, perhaps he accepts this cry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27722	I thank you, Mr. Vice President. You took your right, Mr. Representative, to say whatever you want, and then you tell me we can't confirm it. You could have said that I killed someone yesterday and you could have said it, but we can't confirm it, you talk and you talk, I think I wouldn't have responded because we all know it. But, Mr. Representative, if you'll call me to patriotism, I beg your pardon, I beg your pardon, you have the right to your opinion, you have the right to believe that I don't need to be a minister, I don't slow it down for you, and I don't disturb you. You interpret the public any way you want, so you came into this tower with about 15%, 80%, 85%, and I think today is the day that you're in that bench. Of course I'll talk about it later because it's been touched here more than once. But if we introduce the criteria that you can say whatever you want and you don't have to prove yourself then we're in a field where you're clearly resting to call on patriotism and so on, I didn't invite myself because I don't think you should and I don't let you call me that either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27723	Thank you very much. We are, I apologize to the MPs, there are replicas here and a correction of the incorrect quote on Mr. Stazic's exposure, what do you think we should skip that? Come on, we'll skip. We'll just give Mr. Stazic a correction of the incorrect allegations to the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27724	Minister Zuzul, first of all, I am not talking to a Parliamentarian who speaks in the Parliament, and for every word spoken here, there is immunity. You should know that. Secondly, you have nothing to allow or not to allow me to speak in the House, you have nothing to allow or not to allow me. Thirdly, everything I have said, publicly published, has been made public, and none of these claims have been convincingly denied.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27725	There's no correction to correction, and that's what we've done, the three of us have been liquidated. No correction to correction, no, no, don't... You just picked this up when Mr. Stazic was talking. Don't, let's just... You said you were giving up now, not now, right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now it's Mr. Representative Joseph Leco's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27726	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposal to launch a trust issue to a member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from the text that we received in the Assembly is based on the Law on combating conflicts of interest in this Croatian House. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. So by definition of conflict of interest. So he says that conflict of interest is a situation where the private interests of officials, in which the private interests of officials are contrary to public interest or where private interest affects or may affect the impartiality of officials in the exercise of public duty. From this definition, the proposings quote the provisions of the laws on conflict of interest. A conflict of interest. And we are getting on the benches of the government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal to examine the minister's trust with arguments that there is no criminal responsibility and look, imagine this, it is spotlessly determined by the state's attorney. And no one claims to have criminal responsibilities. This is then spotlessly determined by the state audit. Efficientity is an honor. Of course, since no one has at least writtenly found that criminal responsibility is questionable or that the crime in question is the government's answer to what we didn't even say. From a situation like this, I conclude two bad things and one good. Everything from the material we have here in front of us. What's wrong? I have to read from it that the government either doesn't want to or won't understand the concept of conflict of interest. In other words, such an obvious government derrogates the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. It practically shuts it down. It practically abolishes it because there's no conflict of interest if there's no crime. What, then, did we pass the Law of Conflict of Interest? Well, there are bodies that determine and determine what a criminal liability is. If we add that the whole law is with us, we could say "supply yus", very right because there is no God-knowing sanctions for conflict of interest other than political responsibility, then there is an even weirder view of the government. Even stranger attitudes of the government. The second bad message is, and from this comes our fellow citizens we claim that conflict of interest does not exist without a criminal offence. It's just not possible. Neither by law nor by the rules of democratic states nor by legal systems. But if I don't owe this situation anymore, I don't think there's any point in discussing responsibility or launching questions after the Government of the Republic of Croatia's position. It doesn't make sense. The government claims there is no criminal liability, and the criminal liability is linked or exclusively related to conflict of interest with criminal liability. Since there's no criminal responsibility, there's no conflict of interest. What's good? I hope the materials the Government sent us will profit from the workers of Croatia. Why would he profit? I'll tell you now. Do I read well that the official material reads: "At the request of the Deputy Prime Minister, the Ministry of Finance corresponds to the number, under the number of the team and team," the tax administration said in his letter: "The purchase of the above-mentioned amount is on the account of the creditor of the creditor," in a letter from the tax administration, it warns the government "in particular states that, as the Ministry of Finance has so far been practicing, the tax administration has not denied its... rights because by eradicating it would be more unfavourable than the one provided by the law" and that there are a large number of bankruptcys in which workers make requests for the tax administration to waive their claims, including the claims of HZMO, HZZ and HZZ. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Despite the tax administration's warning, the Ministry of Management proposes to the Government of the Republic that, which is the official document, be denied claims and do not call it otherwise. It says in the document "declares claims". It's a good announcement for all workers whose companies are bankrupt. I guess after this, the Croatian government will propose a law that will equalise all workers in a position like this. If he does, then indeed the government's intention was to protect the rights of workers in this case in general, not to favour the purchase of one, one property. My colleagues and colleagues, since it is indeed about, in the proposal's opinion, political responsibility, even if it were not intended to be a bargain because a minister in that position was found, would be expected to qualify as such. Since the government hasn't qualified it like this, as it has delivered to us in materials, then it must really be said that there is no conflict of interest for today's government, the government of Ivo Sanader. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27727	The government should learn from the former government, so I hope they learn something. Especially about the conflict of interest. Now he has a word, Mr Emil Tomljanovic has a correction to the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27728	Mr. Vice-President, it is an incorrect allegation of an esteemed colleague, Lek, to quote: "The government derivates with its obvious law on preventing conflicts of interest." The government must, in its own statement, in fact be determined by what you, among other things, proposed in the official document for which this procedure was initiated. I will read it to you: "In the whole case of "Imo Machine" there is a strong suspicion of corruption. He suspects the minister was involved in such a case."... Yeah, we'll get to that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's what I'm correcting for you. The government only had an instrument, and this was personally done by Minister Zuzul himself, so the State's Attorney's office is initiating proceedings whether there is a reasonable doubt that a criminal offence, a corrupt criminal offence, or not has been committed. And when someone answers on that one of your structures that there are no elements of criminal responsibility, then the government acts by law, which this House would pass, a law on the prevention of conflict of interest. This is not a correct interpretation, and since I have used this moment of my conflict of public and private in a particular case, directing claims from one subject to another in a particular situation, it cannot even be talked about what you have tried to say now, that there has been a direct conflict of interest, based on the government's decision in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27729	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go. ... How? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't tear yours up, I ripped it from Mr. Vice-Vukov. And on this list here, there's Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. My people, so don't, so what do I do now? I don't care who you talk to. ... Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. [[Everyone speaks out loud, you don't understand.]] I apologize for flying off with two sheets down, not one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27730	I did say you threw me in the basket, that's what I said. It's all right. [[I didn't mean to.]] Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, because of this one chocolate, the Minister of Justice in Sweden resigned. In fact, it happened to a woman that she bought a child's chocolate on her official card because she didn't have a currency at the airport at some point. When she returned to her home country, she paid for that chocolate. So she settled the bill on the official card, but unfortunately it went public, and as the public found out, the minister in question resigned because of this kind of chocolate. What happens in Croatia for much bigger things? It happens that here for more than three weeks in Croatian media, mostly journalists, are the facts about many, they say, of the suspicious actions of Minister Zuzul and his wife. The beginning of the whole story was, in my opinion, a very clumsy reaction. It began right here in this room, when, when certain claims were made here about the conflict of interest in which Mr. Minsiter found himself and after a very firm claim by Prime Minister Sanader who didn't even allow the whole thing to be examined, so to see what it was, he said there was absolutely nothing there and that it was all false and false. Journalists in this country have become very serious, and it seems to me that somewhere further motivated them to go in search of certain data to deny Prime Minister Sanader himself that it was incorrect. And so the story here goes to this day. There are a number of arguments and evidence in the paper, therefore, and some of the payments on that there have been certain financial transactions. So journalists have tried to prove to the Croatian public that everything is not a lie, but that there is something there, and it refers exclusively to the conflict of interest. It is very indicative that during this last period the most affairs in the paper are primarily about your name. How much for you, not for another minister. How about, for example, Minister Biskupić sitting next to you and Minister Roncevic? It's for you, Mr. Zuzul. And these affairs are indeed arranged from day to day. It started with the Bechtel affair, then the unpaid tax, then the Imostroy affair, and now the association's affair with which you were headed and which has funded according to today's one written renovating even your private needs, therefore, even the overhead expenses in your apartment. No politician who has ever spoken of the need for your resignation has spoken of any criminal responsibility, we have talked all together about the political and moral responsibility you have because of everything that has been brought out in public about you. If you and the people in the HDZ government have no position other than to be defended and stationed behind you, citizens in this country still have a very clear view of it and a very clear opinion, which is that in all the surveys that have been made, therefore, in Croatia, 60% of respondents say Minister Zuzul should resign. But citizens' opinion at this point really doesn't matter. The other day, even on one television show, there was a much bigger percentage, so 91% of the people who reported on that show for your shift, but I'll be honest with you that I don't care that much, and I'm not that impressed. However, I was very concerned about one other thing in that survey and the citizens' statement, which is that 64%, therefore of those 91, says you have become a negative moral ethical example. So it's somewhere your perception of people, so people see you now. So you're a negative morale example. I must admit that it is very difficult with such a single picture that the citizens, therefore, have about you, will be difficult for you to continue and be a successful foreign minister. I think it's primarily a question of people's decision to settle debt to workers in that particular company, why not in someone else's and what priority it's made. The consequences of such behaviour or rather, the fact that you have not resigned will certainly reflect both internal and externally. As things stand now, you are the main negotiator, so Croatia to join the European Union. I, for example, have shown the Swedish example that even this value is a criterion for the minister to resign. So there are certain standards in Europe that are much, much higher than in Croatia, and I really don't know how you'll be perceived in that, too, and in that mile as someone who would have to be a very moral and credible negotiator. That it is already on the external political agenda, that there are some consequences, is seen in an article published several days ago in the paper, which is that you, Mr. Minister, should have been a guest lecturer at the Catholic University in Belgium, that you should have lectured on the topic of Croatian integration in the European Union and NATO. So at the last minute, you gave it up. According to what it said in that paper precisely because they told you at the Catholic University that your arrival and your lecture could negatively reflect the reputation and image of this institution. So this means that even in many European countries, you are already not a desirable person. As far as the consequences are concerned in Croatia, the consequences will be just as great. In Croatia, the profession and work of politicians are something that people perceive as immoral and unfair work. Unfortunately, in this country everything that has happened since the 1990s has confirmed to people one belief that there is something you can do in Croatia without having to answer for it. For example, several surveys have been conducted, several surveys among students in Croatia, so among the young population for whom I have personally, I think that everyone here too is very important about what the values of these young people represent. Unfortunately, their values have been disturbed, their work and honesty are at a very low level of their scales, somewhere at the very top of their scales of values they think they have to and should live on, is precisely resourcefulness. It's precisely because in this way, Mr. Minister, because you haven't had the strength to resign, but all those who will support you here today will vote for you, will send a very bad message to the very young people of this country, which is that it doesn't matter to be fair and moral, that it matters only to be in a party, so be a politician in a party that will support you even when you find yourself in some indifferences. And in the end, I'll only tell you this. The honest, moral and honorable people such as Branko Jordanic, Milan Bandic and Ana Stavnić-Rukavina have also resigned for less mistakes than yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27731	We have five corrections of incorrect allegations, and I suggest they give up, but you don't give up anything but repeat one and the same thing a hundred times, so I don't have the nerve to tell them to give up. Will you give up five of you? You gave up. Here's a deal, if they don't give up on the other side, you'll give up. Is it fair? Because there's nothing you can't fix, it's all true. Let's have some fun, that's not forbidden by the Rules of Procedure. Now he's got the word ma'am, he's looking for a minister, or are you going behind the lady? Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Madam representative, please. ... Come on, the minister insists. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, Mr. Minister. ... He's right, because it's about him. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you are, Mr. Minister Miomir Zuzul. You're not giving up. I'm in my speech outside the club forgive me, asking us to cut this short together except to make a play that's repeated all the time. There aren't any new facts, but there's always the same thing that happens, but they won't give up then what I'm going to do now. I have to call it what it says here. So I ask you, Mr. Cossic and you, that we contribute a little bit to this move faster. Here, that's five rectifications of incorrect allegations. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27732	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Although I have no intention of reacting every time, otherwise I would probably spend the most of my time, even though it is really in my best interest to respond to all those inaccuracies. However, it is impossible to answer for all articles in the articles. The Honorable Madam Representative is very wise to admit it, everything she said, quoted the paper. But she did it in a very selective way you know. You only quoted what you wanted in the paper and what suits you, because, for example, And that's why I called first because the other one was being talked about, and maybe I'll tell you in the end. For example, an article was published in a newspaper big on the cover about me being rejected by a large university. Thank God I taught at all the world’s leading universities, and in the future I can do the same even when I was a young doctor. However, Madam Commissioner, I have here a letter from the dean of the department that invited me to accept my apology for not coming and which invites me whenever I can, to come and give a lecture at that same university. Correction in the papers is published, and you know how it is with the corrections. Somewhere a little bit at the bottom of the page has been published a correction that you of course have not been able to read, and so when we read the newspaper's writings as arguments, we'll all meet in a very awkward situation. One newspaper apologized to me, exactly the same newspaper. You haven't experienced this often in the last 15 years, but they apologized. In small letters like this, I'm sure none of you have noticed it, and that's why I'm just pleading to separate the writing in the paper from the arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27733	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27734	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Vice President, Vice President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are discussing this issue tonight, and there are fellow ministers, fellow ministers, but there is no Prime Minister Sanader, no vice president. I think that for the sake of correctness, all of us and even for the sake of Minister Zuzul himself were instructed, or it was his place here, and it is also time for him to be here at this moment as it was a custom primarily for the correctness of his own members, and especially for a team before it stops in their defense to then bear a physical witness here. But he's not here, there's no vice president, and I don't think that's correct. On the subject itself, in general, it should be said that Croatia really has a credibility problem and this problem is becoming a general problem of the government. It is simply spreading now and into various segments and it is something that should be here with all of us causing serious concern. In the last ten months, according to the Transparency International report, Croatia has sunk ten places. It is also something to be concerned about, and Croatia right now, especially the Croatian Government itself, should do everything possible to make the country's reputation known, that its credibility on all issues, in all fields, especially at these moments and approaches, that is to say, the very beginning of negotiations with the European Union is uprooted, not to be humiliated and I say it is the responsibility of all of us, and above all, it is the responsibility of the ruling ones. We've heard here that there's nothing to discuss here, that there's really no criminal responsibility. I don't know if it ever occurred to anyone to claim, or if there are doubts, then there's a regular way of criminal charges, never happened, nor has anyone ever sent it to the State's Attorney's office. Under the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, under the Law on Criminal Procedure, the State's Attorney reacts to, according to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, to criminal charges. It's legal. On the occasion of criminal charges, a decision on rejection shall be taken. This isn't about either, but we really don't have time to discuss criminal responsibility at all here, but it's not right that we're hiding behind the State's Attorney's report. The State Attorney's Office submitted a report in the case of a request from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and on what, to determine the circumstances relating to the case of Imostroj Imotski d.o.o. The bottom line, and the conclusion, that is, the report is, and we know, so this is something unusual to act like this, actually I would say it is fair to say that this is not the first case that the State's Attorney's Office is burdened with these things. The state's attorney's office will repeat, acts when it only has the knowledge that there are any doubts about some kind of criminal act or based on criminal charges. It has been insisted here by the State's Attorney's Office to act, to give an opinion, something that neither the State's Attorney's Law nor the Law on Criminal Procedure and the State's Attorney's Office speaks about, is still as correct as it should communicate with the state's authorities and give a report, although we know by law what kind of reports the State's Attorney's Office may bring, it provides general reports concerning cases which are also pending and specific reports on what the provision of Articles 33 and 34 states. Law of attorneyship. However, it does not matter how any act is addressed, the conclusion is that it was also cited here that the order of the stated truth is that the Office of the Republic of Croatia has not established the existence of a suspicion of any criminal offence, nor has it established the existence of an illegality which would require the conduct of the civil-government department, because we know that the State's attorneyship around this criminal sphere has powers in the civil-government department to protect the state property and it does not find any deficiencies but it is missed here to quote the first part of the sentence, I do not know whether on purpose or by chance, the following is said from the State's attorney's office on the basis of the available data. And no criminal processing was filed here, but were simply substantiated by the government, and based on these documents, not asking for anything beyond that, the state's attorney's office did not at least give him that authority, although we have always advocated that the state's attorneyship would be an operational body to have the exact fullness, I think it is then, but I hope it will be at one further stage of the development of our criminal procedure itself. Therefore, it gave this indication based on these items or on the documentation to which it was delivered. I don't think that's something we're talking about and what's the main barrier here that would prevent what's the subject here that we're talking about here today. However, when HDZ came to power with the coalition, it was more than once said to me by the Prime Minister that HDZ itself had its own ethical code of conduct, so that was also the case, now there is no more talk than criminal responsibility. And I would really repeat here, as my colleague Leko said, what is the law on preventing conflicts of interest. And when it was actually passed with the birthing hardships that law we see that he has not yet revived, there are no bodies that are provided by the Law to prevent conflicts of interest. It has often been said in public, and sometimes insolently that this law of the world is a guide, that it foresees a lot of fines there, however, the meaning of this law and its weight precisely for government officials is not whether they will be punished by some fine in the amount of this or that, it is least important. Its weight is that this law prohibits government officials from anything that is permitted by all others, in this it is its weight and its severity. Under the law, then, if there was no law then it might not be a dispute. However, precisely because of the existence of this Law, which imposes more on government officials, it deprives them of certain rights that others have citizens, which is why it is precisely because otherwise it is not only with us, but everywhere in the world, raised faith in politics and in politicians. And just for the sake of the purity of politics and politicians, this law has been passed and all countries should have it. This is especially important for transition countries. However, now that the ethical code of its own party has nothing, the law says nothing at all but the most severe responsibility it is criminal responsibility. It's the strictest responsibility that exists in any country, and so are we, for which the most severe sanctions are then prevented. However, we have the opposite now that we are now still threatening journalists, and we have heard and a guarantee right from this government that journalists will no longer be called to criminal responsibility, that was when we changed the Penal Code, you remember in the crime of the slander that we claimed there were no significant changes and unfortunately they were true. So now he's threatening journalists, which is in no way in the spirit of all that and the development of democracy and ethics. We had something else to hear today, something that's really confusing. In 2000, here in the Croatian Parliament, we also had the opportunity to hear what happened to the public, that the citizens had made a mistake, so they fell apart, one part had just gone public. We've heard again today about this terrible public that all this behavior is said to be simply public and opposition. So, some very strange structure, and until yesterday there was a fashion hit wearing T-shirts, the shirts were a big fashion hit "We're All Mirko Norac", it looks like only the name changed the shirts were the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27735	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I may have managed in a non-democratic way to stamp out eight corrections and replicas. Now, however, the lady here is exactly 8 and a plus 1 replica. I ask you, please, Mr. Matušić, Zubović, Tomljanović, Fuček, Bekavac, Bajt, Petričević, Bitunjac, I no longer have the credit to take it off, so I will have to make these corrections. I don't have any more. Here's the first line I'm going to give to Mrs. Katarina Fuchek, who I'm also congratulating today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27736	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for how I'm about to get out of this celebration atmosphere in such a hurry, what a transition. Mrs Antičević-Marinović has no Croatian credibility problem but you have a credibility problem. Why? Because you don't have the same standards and the same criteria for everything. In yourself, or when you were in power, you did not see guarantees given to companies close to ministers, it was not a conflict of interest. I think that could be discussed, too. You're turning this assembly into a courtroom despite all your efforts for democratic rules and standards that the assembly is not a courtroom, but you insist on doing so. You're turning the court public into something that suits you. You convert resourcefulness and ability into incompatibility and negativity, as you direct the public in this sense, and what standards you set for young generations to grow on. So, only when it suits you is you who respect that judgment to the public, when it doesn't suit you, you don't respect it. And in that sense, I think you're recognizable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27737	Thank you very much. You didn't answer the line, so we're going to correct the incorrect allegations. First is Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27738	Mr. Vice President, for all your appeal for the insufferable ease of carrying out incorrect allegations, I must correct some. For example, the first incorrect allegation that in the last ten months Croatia has fallen 10 places on the list of transparency international. It's completely untrue. It was a report for last 2003 when, when, no, no, look at a little good transparency international report so you will, read their report well and you will know. Secondly, this is completely incorrect, so you are also talking about that this is not a criminal liability investigation, yes, the State Attorney's Office has found, you are trying to relativate it, but it has not established that there is any reasonable doubt about the initiation of any criminal act, nor has it established the existence of an illegality that would require the conduct of the civil management department of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, these are facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27739	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, representative Mr. Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27740	Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct Mrs. Anticevic's allegations. She said this government's problem was credibility. I can say that this government is credible and that the Prime Minister is credible, as are our ministers. In fact, Mrs. Anticevic makes one assumption, from that assumption she makes the truth and then talks about the truth. I think Minister Zuzul did the right thing by speaking to the State's Attorney's Office for Opinion because the debate here now took place to judge the State's Attorney's Office for giving such an opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27741	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27742	Mr. Vice President, correctness is what I am doing, giving up corrections because my colleague has self-corrected herself in her presentation when she has explained jurisdiction in terms of the conduct of the State's Attorney's Office for Criminal Crimes. Later on, you said exactly that, so ex offo, by no order than when circumstances arise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27743	Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs. Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27744	Mr. Vice President, I replaced that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27745	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Marijan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27746	I'm giving up, my colleague Matosic has corrected my incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27747	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mrs. Representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27748	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I will shorten the correction so much that I will not enter into detail the problem of the credibility of this government, which my colleague Anticevic tried to question. And speaking of credibility, Ms. Anticevic, while she was a minister on March 26, 2002, gave a successful assessment to a gentleman, an employee, based on the Internal Order Regulation of the Ministry of Justice, and then for political reasons, she changed that assessment not to meet under the same service number and the same class, only after a few days was replaced. So much for the credibility of the former ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27749	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mrs Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27750	Mr. President, I don't mean to, but I'm gonna give up, so here's when you asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27751	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27752	But it's not easy for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27753	And I thank Mr. Yuri Bitunjec who gave me the sign earlier to give up. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic now has a word. Here you go. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27754	Well, I can't give up, but I have to say something. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will first agree with all those who have said that it is not only criminal responsibility, but that it is necessary here to determine whether there are elements of political or moral responsibility. I absolutely agree with that because these are much wider categories and, in fact, all of us officials are subject to questioning and such kinds of responsibilities. However, what is important is necessary and must be proven that there are certain facts affecting this type of responsibility. Unfortunately, from what we're being suggested today, I absolutely don't see any element on which to build and to say that there is a political or moral responsibility of a minister whose mistrust we should vote on today. It has been rejected here and said that there is no demand at all and that there is no need to discuss the elements of criminal responsibility at all, indeed, and that this report of the State's Attorney's Office has been relativated. However, in this proposal, we have an allegation that in the whole case "Imostroy" there is a strong suspicion of corruption, so in the proposal itself, alluds to the existence of criminal responsibility, and now that we have received such a finding or report, it doesn't matter in the formal sense of what it is, the State Attorney's Office that says there are no such elements, now we try to reciprocate it. I don't think that's a good thing, and I think these reports that both the State's Audit and the State's Attorney's Office have provided us, I think they're worth it, and they're worth looking at. Because all of us here who are discussing in this Chamber today the responsibility of Minister Zuzul are being discussed on the basis of an article in the paper. The strongest arguments so far that have been highlighted have been public polls. Imagine the public polls should be our guide today whether we will vote in confidence or mistrust to the minister. I think it's rather unserious and we can't respect such arguments. I would like to have one of the proposings, either through a replica, either through that right of the proposer who always has to tell me that he simply explained to me this first point, that the minister was involved in making a decision that resulted in the breach of the persons associated with the minister, which is contrary to the provisions of Article 6 of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the conduct of public duties. I'd like someone to really explain it to me because I've been reading and writing in the papers, listening to statements, watching a lot of TV shows, being careful, that you've come to this level that you've had public shows on entertainment shows that have been collecting points, giving an opinion about whether there's something or not. ... I simply don't see how the government, which, by the government's decision, led to the breakthrough of persons associated with Minister Zuzul. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] If it's not the government, then neither could the minister, because there is no such decision. What she really wants to do here is to impute that the government has made some kind of decision that she has forgiven or written off some kind of claim to the company Imostroy and that it has profited from that company's buyer Imostroy. It's simply not true, it's simply not true, and the whole file shows that the facts don't stand so. First, it was not purchased in the company’s bankruptcy but was purchased and the company’s assets bought at the sixth or seventh tender at the price determined by the Commercial Court, the bankruptcy council, at the price paid neatly and from that price when they are in bankruptcy, when that purchase is paid there are rules of bankruptcy as to how the purchase is shared. First, to settle from this mass have the right to separate creditors, the decisive believer in the story was the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia simply gave its right to employees of the company in order to get paid. Because if the Republic of Croatia had settled down from that purchase, employees wouldn't have gotten anything. So, the man regularly paid 6.2 million kuna or 6.3 million kuna and made an orderly commitment and showed contracts to employ 20 employees of Imostroy. I don't see what he's profiting from? I really don't see what the breach is, what did the government lead to that man's breach? And if that, if we don't have these basic facts, then this whole structure on which this whole request is based, this whole structure is just not connected, it can't be connected. And so, I'm going to listen to the president of our club, I won't owe too much, but I do consider this as one actually, as an episode in the development of democracy with us, and also in the development of freedom of the media. Because it seems to me if in the future we're going to go with this kind of thing in front of the Parliament, if we're going to disqualify people in this way, tomorrow each of us can be found at the heart of an affair like this that doesn't even need facts, for which there's absolutely nothing to prove. It was a great article, but someone said it well, that such articles are actually like this. Where it's said, the man is, someone said he was guilty and it's because someone said he was guilty. No one had to prove anything. And here in these documents there's nothing to prove, it's just that someone's acquired some kind of breakthrough. I really don't see from the whole file, I just see that the buyer paid 6.2 million kuna neatly, that out of these 6.2 million kunas that the salaries were paid to the employees and I see that he hired those 20 employees who had been required to hire them under the terms of the tender. So I would really ask that in the future if we go with such suggestions that this story at least sort of agrees, that these facts give some logical mosaic from which some conclusion would then come to us. Because this, when we read all these inscriptions in the paper, when we analyse all these texts, and when we make a mosaic out of these facts that we're offered, then we'll see that that conclusion that we're also offered and offered in public polls simply doesn't come out of it logically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27755	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, please welcome Madam Vice President Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27756	I'm sorry to have to take that time away from you, but the fact is that I have to answer what Mr. Bosnjakovic here said, because he asked the promoter directly. Yeah, what's this all about, the 6.2 million? The 6.2 million was therefore forgiven on behalf of the taxpayers. It's forgiven, that's what Imostroy was owed and from that acquired mass the state would be charged out of those 6.2 million kunas. Instead, the company has 962 according to the State Audit report. There are 962 companies that, in that case, if the state forgives their debt to the state, could pay off their workers. So how is it that this happened in the Imostro case, and it doesn't happen in the case of 962 other companies that are also according to the State Audit report exactly in the same situation, the exact same situation as Imostroy? Look at the State Audit report that cited it. So the State Audit if you forgive these companies they could also pay off workers and it would be the same situation as Imostroy. How come Imostroya is a yes and not in other companies?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27757	Mr. Bosnjakovic, here's a replica, because he's not a government official, he's a proponent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27758	I asked what was the breakthrough for the buyer, the one who paid 6.2 million kuna? And here we heard from fellow Caine that the government forgave other companies, gave in to claims, there are such things, and in the end, look out, the former government made a decision to forgive the debt of the taxpayers, on behalf of the taxes that the companies owed. You had the opportunity to make a deal with the state to pay taxes on meals, and part of it was forgiven. So this isn't a unique case.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27759	Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27760	Mr. Vice President, I really think I need to react, because this is obviously about the lack of understanding of the matter we're talking about. The state, therefore, has not forgiven anyone the debt, this man has paid 6.2 million kuna, but the state has transferred these claims to the workers. So you're not satisfied, I'm sorry, you're not satisfied that the state has settled debt to the workers and you consider such a solution that goes to the harm of your country, but it brings profits, or the debts to those to whom these funds are most needed. Well, there are a lot of situations in which the state could give up its claims for workers to get their debts. It's really no good to anyone, but it's one decision that goes in favor of the government's social policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27761	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Happy Ferenchuck, come in. You can't propose because it was just a correction. Mr. Ferenchak, then. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27762	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. You, Mr. Minister, in your opening statement, actually said we should behave. You said Mr. Jurcic, who made some kind of statement on TV, lied to the public that it was a felony. You said a certain SBS reporter lied to the public and had to resign at the end of his rich career. And you, Mr. Minister, haven't told the truth at least a dozen times, so why don't you look up to that procedure you're calling for? Before I go on to prove these labs of yours you've made, I'll tell you how you're percepting the participation of, say, the supervisory boards. Because you said, "Here's the chateau on the board of directors, and I was what you resented me." But you forgot to say that you came to the Supervisory Board for political resemblance, you were the politics that put you on the Supervisory Board, you got the money for it, and you were in Washington. How did you do this Supervisory Board? And Mr. Cacic entered the Supervisory Board on the basis of the ownership structure. Let me remind you, in 89 years, he's the founder of the company... which was later renamed in Croatia Airlines is the first largest... [[Because of technical disturbances, the speaker doesn't understand]] the shareholder of that company and therefore came to the Supervisory Board. [[Because of technical disturbances, the speaker doesn't understand]] At the time, Mr. Minister, you were the last secretary of the Philosopher's College party and kept a solid state property. ... Next, you said and he negotiated with Bechtel, he says. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Yeah, but you were negotiating with Bechtel as a lobbyist and putting money in your pocket because you were defending Bechtel's interests. And Cacic defended the interests of the state, stripped the prices of Bechtel and was against the direct... When you entered the government of your government, so you further lobbyed for Bechtel's request... [[Because of technical disturbances, the speaker doesn't understand]] Don't interrupt me, please. [[speaks off, can't be heard]] It's the difference between understanding, so Cacic was all working in private... From the 1990s to today... [[speaks off, can't be heard]] You're in politics. [[Because of technical disturbances, the speaker doesn't understand]] Except you were lobbyist with Bechtel. From 90th to today you have earned a house in Washington, you have earned a beautiful apartment in Dubrovnik, you have earned two apartments in Zagreb, a house in Zagreb. I hope Mr. Shuker has a receipt that you paid taxes on that money you bought those properties with. And in this debate, I don't want to accuse or investigate whether you're in conflict of interest or whether you've committed any crime. Let the institutions in charge do that. Please, you can assure me that I can talk, Mr. President. But what I want to talk about, Mr. Minister, is your moral, political and every other credibility of the man who represents our country towards the world. Who and why will believe the truth, the consistency of our views in the world if our foreign policy is led by the minister of this kind of compromised reputation. The minister who has been caught in a lapususe many times, instead of repenting, leaves his place and allows the prime minister to set up a new man, credible and moral who would believe in Europe and the world that we really want to build what we are talking about in Croatia. But no, it happens exactly the opposite. You don't even consider resigning or giving a mandate at your disposal. And the Croatian government calls your lies "pastics and clumsyness." Instead of talking about the serious life issues and the problems of this country in this House, we today have to have this difficult debate. Well, if that's the case, when you wanted to, Mr. Minister, then I'll go ahead and point out all your laps, and then resign like that man you instructed here. So, first of all, you're saying there's no business relationship with... Universal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Lapse. After that, a contract appears between Karin and MTS owned by your wife. Now, our minister says there's still a contract but there's no business relationship because the contract wasn't consummated because there weren't any payments and neither of you nor your wife got any kuna. On the question of journalists that there are speculations and bank statements about... By paying you, Mr. Minister, you reject such, I say, harsh insinuations and insinuations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Lapse again. The next day, the payments appear on the 143,000 kuna isos, and now these insonations are in reality true. And you ministers claim it's the usual traffic between the two companies, where Karin's director. Lapse again. Mr. Karin is not the director of this company because his companies Carin universal and engineering are indebted to this country over 2 million and 600,000 kuna taxes and customs and cannot be described as the director of the company. The question now arises here how the State of Imostroy sold to a company that owes the same state 2 million and how many thousand kunas of taxes and customs. How will this proven businessman who is so obliged to get Imostroy out of the country hire these people? I guess that's his reference. Here's our inventive minister's idea of an original apology, so he said that the 143,000 kuna was a loan to MTS, a lapus again. When journalists showed him a payment card saying it was an invoice payment, the Prime Minister immediately states that the reporter who wrote it made a mistake. Lapse again. Our minister is very agile and in the establishment of non-profit associations, so one of the founders of the Association of Leadership Forum Croatian and this association held two seminars on ethics in business and what you ministers proved that you... Ethics in business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such a initiative for the establishment of a non-profit association would be commendable for not reading in today's journal how this association pays... The cost and reserve of the apartment where the minister lives, 109,000 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It says. You are very concerned that the donors of these unknown associations of state-owned companies, therefore, are visible from this that the taxpayers' money is coming directly into your pocket. As for the conflict of interest, I'll just say that the auditor's report says that there are 960 companies that have debts to the state, no one is forgiven for the debt except, as it is called, Imostroy. I guess that's why the workers would agree to exactly Karin university whose owner is Mr. Minister's co-owner of MTS and your wife's business partner gets that company. And if I don't keep counting, not counting, it's too much, I'm not comfortable with it and I probably don't feel comfortable with you either, but it doesn't seem like you're comfortable with it, because you don't listen at all, just wave to Mr. Ministers and show how you treat the Republic of Croatia's Parliament. These facts, Mr. Minister, have gone beyond the scope of our country, diplomacy is closely monitoring what's going on here. I wonder how you will stand before these people and how you will represent our country? Unfortunately, after all, they won't even believe you to say that the sun is out there until they take a good look. But it's not me, it's us. All moral verticals are down, all truths are struck, Mr. Minister, and after all you can't be trusted, nor let you run such an important ministry. Why are you laughing? You think that's funny? You can't even trust a government that's proven to be tampering and lying like that called a lapse or a clumsy statement. Gentlemen, I appeal to your conscience that you will vote no confidence in Mr. Zuzul in the interest and credibility of the Croatian state because those who are abstentioned and those who vote for Mr. Zuzul vote directly for proven lies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27763	Mr. Representative, the Rules of Procedure are not allowed to laugh, so everyone has the right to laugh. And as for the gentleman mentioned to give an explanation, Cacic, it was only you who mentioned him today. Mr. Frano Matušić has a correction to the incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27764	A little more Mr. President correcting incorrect allegations. So, fellow, it's very interesting from which party and which representative tried to construct our accusations here to accuse us of various things. He says, colleague, Mr. Cacic has acquired his property through his private work. Well, you see, there's evidence that by his private lack of work, he's come to property. A specific case of a retirement home in Dubrovnik for which his company where he was responsible took millions of kunas and did not make that retirement home. For such an act, sir, you get up to eight years in prison. Unfortunately, he escaped due to an outdated process. Whether it's moral responsibility and political, obviously not to you. Second thing, you say there were no cases similar to that... And remember, here's only Mr. Finance Minister mentioned the one that weighs $86 million and that's Diona. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We just heard from Dalmatinka Sinj, that I'm not talking about companies, companies owned by DABA, so state institutions with debt write-offs, etc. And we'll put it all on the wallpaper. So, and it's incorrect that the state sold a commercial court in a bankruptcy procedure was selling property, not a state. So don't tell lies here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27765	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Marian Bekvac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27766	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Ferenčak said that the government sold Imostroy which is not true, the Imostroy was sold after the seventh competition at the bankruptcy court in Split, and this is the first time here tonight must be said. And as for the HDZ and our credibility, please take care of yourself, Mr. Ferencak, for the credibility of the CNS, where members of your party, former members of your party, simply flee because of you and Minister Cacic's former, who caused such a stampede of your members to the various marifettelucies along with you and the other members of the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27767	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27768	Mr. Vice-President, it is incorrect that the debt is forgiven by "Imo Machine". The demand is only transferred to the monks so they can get paid out of those purchases. And I think it's a moral and good decision of our government, and if that's the case if we were to conduct a public poll, I'm pretty sure that 90% would at least get actual support for that decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27769	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27770	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, I'm correcting a few things. First, the state did not forgive the debt. She only transferred the right of claim to 168 employees and thus helped them and secondly, no state has forgiven anyone's debt, said Mr. Ferencak, the second, and the fact is that in numerous recovery procedures and aiding companies, the state's claim was forgiven. And who in Zagreb changed urban plans to fill private pockets will also be examined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27771	Yeah, thanks. Sir, we've exhausted everything, Mr. Representative Ivo Lonchart.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27772	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President, before you start me on time, I would ask you to stick to article 208 and assure me as well as any other MPs to speak in peace. [[Invader: When his debate passes then]] Now you can start with time. I have no idea how to defend or attack Foreign Minister Miomir Zuzul. If he's innocent, God have mercy on him and help him in these difficult moments for him and his family. If he's guilty, he can go where the culprits belong. Since there has been a lot of talk here in this debate tonight about moral, political and legal responsibility I will quote here three statements: at the beginning of my debate, Vice-President of the House, Mrs Vesna Pusic said, quoting: "He thus," referring to Minister Zuzula "to damage the reputation and interests of the Republic of Croatia, he loses credibility in Croatia as well as in the world, and therefore 43 MPs ask for a vote of mistrust to Minister Zuzul", finished the quote. Mrs Ljubica Lalic said on behalf of the HSS Club, quotes: "He who does not trust the public has no right to act as minister," a quote concluded. Another quote from Ms. Ljubica Lalic: "The pride and arrogance of the government and ministers is more than obvious despite the public's reactions," the quote concluded. The drivers of this investigation committee for the replacement of Foreign Minister Miomir Zuzul all the time say Minister Zuzul and the Croatian government should behave. And how they acted while they were in power. Ladies and gentlemen, in the previous session of the Croatian Parliament, the president of the Croatian government was Mr. Ivica Racan, and the president of the Croatian Parliament was Mr. Zlatko Tomcic. Two of the most responsible men. One President of the Executive Authority and the other President of the Legislative Authority. All the time, they've been making public oaths to the rule of law, and they've been tearing down that rule of law with all their powers. I'll give you two examples. Seven times in a year, I asked the question of how a member of the government could be a man who has been convicted by a court order for crime. And now that he was pressured by the facts, and the elections were approaching, and at that time there was the "Sun-Hvar" affair of the Croatian government at that time, Mr. Ivica Racan answered me on January 30th. So I won't mention as in those seven times I didn't mention the name of that unhappy man because I never go to people but I go to negative phenomena. "According to data from the criminal record of the Ministry of Justice, Administration and Local Self-Government against it tonight, Petar Petrovic "against Petra Petrovic, a verdict of the Municipality court in Virovitica, which became powerful on 29 November 2001 due to the criminal offence referred to in Article 311(1). The penal code and the sentence of 6 months has been imposed on him on a one-year sentence." The Croatian Prime Minister says "Petar Petrovic is for moral reasons," the president of the Croatian government said at that time that he, who has been convicted by a judicial verdict for crime, said "for moral reasons his mandate was made available but the coalition partner of the HSS did not agree with his resolution". The Croatian government, or Parliament, was established on February 2nd, and this one, Petar Petrovic, was put in place on February 26th, 2000. So when he was convicted. And watch out now, the Croatian Prime Minister writes to me on January 30th, all of the MPs in this assembly of mandates, says: "The state lawyer of the Republic of Croatia is on a proposal" so our Peter Petrovic "requested to protect the legality of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on 16 January 2003." You can see that two of the most responsible men in Croatia who were drilling into their heroic breasts defended the rule of law, and they destroyed it in every possible and impossible way. An example of another, wheat affair. The government, Parliament was founded on February 2rd and already on February 23rd, the Croatian government called for a competition to export wheat and then rob Croatia's state, Croatian people and Croatian taxpayers for a billion kuna. I have all the evidence. So a tender is being held that there is no money in the Treasury and that is why wheat is to be sold. In the first round, the value of wheat 680 million kuna. The job is obtained by a company from Osijek that has at that time 1412 kuna, and before that was blocked 126 days ago. I am then collecting 20 signatures and a Commission of Investigation is established for the sale and export of wheat in 1999 and for the purchase of prices, sales and exports of wheat in 2000. Despite all the facts and arguments, the Croatian government sends MPs to the assembly benches and says: "The government of the Republic of Croatia believes there is no reason to establish an investigative commission for the sale, export and so on and so on of the wheat," and already has been robbed by several hundred million kunas and by a coalition government that has ruled for less than a month. The Commission of Investigation is being established, and now on 24 May 2001 it is said that an investigative committee is being established and we are going on with the quote: "As we do not have a proposal from the representatives' clubs on the composition of the investigative committee, I ask the coordination of clubs to propose for the next session of the composition of the investigation committee," a quote concluded. That's what the president of the Croatian Parliament said back then. In June of that year, the president of the Croatian Parliament from that chair where you are now sitting, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian National Assembly, says: "The composition of the investigation committee will be established at the next session." Then, on behalf of the HSS Club, Mr Luka Trconic submits the conclusion, quotes: "The whole case with all the materials presented by the representative of MP Ivo Loncaru during the debate on that proposal for the establishment of an investigative commission will be submitted to the competent state attorney's office to assess whether it is a criminal offence and the possible criminal liability of certain persons," the statement concluded. I don't know what was, what was the fate of this conclusion. Mostly this investigation committee has never been established. I spoke 16 times in this assembly when this investigative commission would work. It has never worked, because with the help of various business tricks the President of the Croatian Parliament has taken the assistance of the then chairman of the Committee, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of Mr. Mate Arlovic,... So also vice president of the Croatian Parliament. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] They never let that committee work. I had then as proof now that the Croatian state had then robbed the government in the first month and a half for a billion kuna and now I end up in the end. Do they have the right to speak of morality as those who, while in power, used every opportunity to play justice and the rule of law, and to promote morality in the worst way possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27773	Even though the plate is a little late, here you go, Vice President. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27774	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course I understand my fellow Loncar, he's having a hard time dealing with the Rules of Procedure, and even less with the laws, no matter what they're involved in. Well, then he can't even know that the work of the investigative committees is not regulated by the Rules of Procedure but by the Law of Investigation, and in this respect, it is necessary to address why colleagues when they set up an investigative committee, did not act by law, and not by the Rules of Procedure and I say again, I understand, because the problem is to read the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27775	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Mr. Ivo Lonchar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27776	Sir, Mr. Vice President, what is it, what is it now? ... [[Everyone speaks out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27777	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27778	I'm the one who's been giving the Rules of Procedure a hard time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27779	So I'm asking which one is, what's the article, huh?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27780	Mr. Vice President, I've also raised my colleagues on the right, and I've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27781	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27782	Mr. Mato Arlović injured Article 214. My colleague Arlovic, and now you've told all kinds of business jokes that this is not true. I asked the question 16 times why the commission didn't work, because I have evidence here and then I had them robbed by the Croatian state, and even you told me in one conversation that you wouldn't question the coalition authority because of the Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27783	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Someone, Mr. Mato Arlovic, is a vice president. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27784	I thank Mr. Vice President, a respected colleague has violated a business provision that speaks of the solemn oath of the Croatian Parliament's representative. In this oath, he undertakes, among other things, to respect the Constitution and the law, and by law, if he knew about the crime he committed, he had to report the crime, so I call on him why he did not respect Croatian laws and his oath and reported the criminal act for which he had evidence.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27785	I don't know what the article is. It's hard for me to figure that out. ... What's the article? [[Everyone speaks out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27786	Mr. Vice President, again, colleague Arlovic violated Article 214 and 209 and I will answer him like this. Mr. Arlovic, it doesn't matter what you say, it's important who you say.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27787	We now have a situation where three proposing representatives have asked for a word. Mrs. Pusic, Mr. Lesar and Mrs. Lalic, so I don't know who will speak from them. Mr. Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27788	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll do it for a while, because I've patiently listened to all the arguments made so far, but it seems to me that some things have been said or haven't been heard because of the marbles in the hall or because they didn't want to be heard. When I was talking about the state's attorney's finding and the state's audit, I said that their useful function was just that, because they're only talking about one point in our proposal, that strong suspicions of corruption have been removed. You keep coming back to that. Yeah. That's right. But if you don't understand why it still has another useful value, try to reverse the government's reasoning upside down, so maybe you'll find it in the chronology of what's going on here, which is why it's important. On March 29th, the Trade Court, 6th attempt to sell, is in motion. On 26 April, the Commercial Court in Split sentenced the sale of the property of Karina Universala. 14.6. Workers apply for write-offs. 20.7. The Ministry of Finance makes a proposal, 2.9. The government is making a decision. When were those controversial 143,000 kunas paid? What date? Everything happens at that same interval. Comrade Jandrokovic, he's not in the hall right now, if you don't believe me, ask him. If you had accepted our proposal to amend the bankruptcy law a few months ago and accepted our proposal to have workers' claims in the first payment order, this problem would have been solved. You didn't accept. But you've translated the government's decision to write off the workman's claim into first payoff order. That's exactly what got the workers. And that's right. And you're asking me if as a former unionist that fits? Yeah. So he would be happy if the government then made one decision for all 961 companies and wrote off their commitments to the state. Of course, if the Minister of Finance agrees to charge the budget. And a third. What's the issue all the time? Who profited from these transactions? And you claim that neither Mr. Karin had profit, or convenience, nor that he had a minister. That's right. Whose jury was paid 143,000 kunas? And what is the relationship between this person? The owner of that jury account with the minister? The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest other than government officials also applies to the person concerned. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27789	Thank you very much. Ma'am, you've got another six-and-a-half minutes, within these ten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27790	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll have enough of these six and a half minutes. Well here we've been exposed to an attempt to make the alleged sins of someone else's opera their own sin, and when we talk about each other's sins, then it needs to be concrete and clear. As regards the conclusion mentioned in this debate, the conclusion was delivered to the State Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney's Office found that there were no elements of criminal prosecution. And as for the unnamed one who was allegedly convicted, let us be correct and not be bloodthirsty. In front of me is a powerful verdict, and my colleagues remember, the verdict by which Mr. Josip Hrala is released, i.e. the indictment is rejected, that on 28 January 98, he would have charged an acceptive order, which, according to the prosecution's claim, was false, and the argument is that the defendant Josip Hrala was found to have checked the correctness of that acceptive order and was guaranteed that the acceptive order was correct. Mr. Hrala was apparently the victim of someone's will, but let's be correct when we talk about it for years then let's be consistent to the end and let's say the truth to the end. Mr. Hrala did his term at the Ministry of Agriculture as assistant minister and did not even think of putting a million kunas in his pocket for four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27791	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Ivo Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27792	I'm sorry my colleague Ljubica Lalic wasn't in the hall listening to what I was saying. So the government was founded on January 27th, Parliament on February 2nd. Mr. Hrala is on duty on February 26th. The President of the Croatian Government confirms to me that the judicial decision became a valid one on 29 November 2001, and Mr. Hrala, whom you mentioned, and I never mentioned him before, and this is the first time I mentioned him tonight, he complained on 16 January 2003 after the President of the Croatian Government of the entire Parliament delivered the question that he could not question the coalition authority because of the HSS and that therefore this man must be in the government as a member of the government no matter what he was convicted of crime, and I also have a verdict from what you have read now, but it should be read all of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27793	The violation of the Rules of Procedure of Ms. Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27794	Indeed, the Rules of Procedure, Article 209(2), were injured because not a word was taken from a speaker who was not correcting the incorrect assumption but was correcting the exact assumption, and those who know the right then know very well that the appeal was bound by a deadline and cannot be breached. The appeal can't be made sooner or later, and when we talk about it then we need the truth, and I say Mr. Hrala has done his duty with honor and he didn't think of putting a million kunas in his pocket pocket.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27795	Mr. Lonchar, in his opinion, corrected your incorrect allegations, which doesn't mean he's right, but he thinks he's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27796	This about a million kuna if what he said now was a woman, I'd get angry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27797	Correction...... What is it? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Are you running a session? I'm running a session here. I'll decide when I'm in charge. When someone else is in charge, let them decide. He won't get a warning because I didn't hear what he said, please. That's enough yelling in here. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27798	Mr. Vice President, I'm asking you to let me speak first.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27799	Please, let the representative speak. Mr. Lonchar, let the counsel...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27800	It is an incorrect assumption that the appointed gentleman was the victim of someone's delusions or games. The gentleman was also sentenced by a first-degree verdict and a second-degree verdict, and at that time, the entire sentence was carried out by an assistant minister, and no one thought of asking for his shift and no one allowed himself to read just one part of it, and we will also remember the Slatin tobacco and the Government's decision to give shares to the workers and write off the debt on behalf of the workers so that Hrala and the minister would be members of the Supervisory Board in the same company. There was no conflict of interest, there was no interest in individuals in the form of ministers and assistants.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27801	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Marian Bekavac came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27802	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Foreign Minister, the request of 43 parliamentary representatives of SDP and HSS and HNS to raise the issue of trust to Dr. Miomir Zuzul is based on a whole series of incorrect claims and insinuations in the media both written and electronic. Based on these and such claims and lies, it was launched in collaboration with part of the opposition media haranga against Minister Zuzula and the Priory without established facts and evidence, without any arguments and all based on the laps given in one of the numerous media attacks in the days when the affair was at the peak of Minister Zuzul is declared guilty and pre-convicted without being able to defend himself. Specifies the opposition troika who raised the issue of the commission of Minister Zuzul over the alleged conflict of interest in the Imostroj affair are purely political and aim to discredit Minister Zuzul and destabilise the entire Croatian government. I will refer a little bit to the opposition in the request to launch the confidence of Minister Zuzul where, among other things, it says Minister Zuzul participated in the decision-making process, quote: "which has achieved the breakthrough of persons associated with the minister" finished the quote. This is not true because the government's decision only benefited workers who were granted their claims in bankruptcy proceedings in order to collect their back salaries and severances, and the irony of being a larger minister, Zuzul, did not even attend the government's session because he was at the Republican Party Convention in New York. It is further cited in the context of the opposition request, that Minister Zuzul did not seek the opinion of the Commission on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Under the law, the minister was obliged to request the opinion of the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest because there was no conflict of interest or could have been. The company that owns the ministers was not in any way related to the government's decision but were former employees of the "Imostroy" of 168 of them, so it is clear that this decision made by the government by the new owner of Imostroy has nothing to do with it. The company "Karin Universal" reported for the seventh time in an advertising tender for the sale of Imostroj in a bankruptcy announced by the Bank of Split and how as the sole bidder buys the property "Imostroja" for 5 million and 300 thousand kuna and pawns its property. So there is no government or Minister Zuzula in their business decision that the media's instructions from HTV, RTL, New TV and all the presses in Croatia are. It is interesting how all orchestratedly conveyed false, truly interesting and indicative. All the others cited in the opposition request for the replacement of Minister Zuzula were not founded, so I do not want to waste my time on their reasoning mainly because the government was manifesting itself about them. Faced with orchestrated media attacks and opposition pressure, Minister Zuzul as a moral man asks the State Attorney's Office and State Audit to examine all relevant facts and evidence in the Imostroj affair. This act of Minister Zuzula is an act of man who cares about the truth, and the truth can only be proved by firm facts and arguments. Interestingly, the loudest in the attack on Minister Zuzula are those of the opposition ranks suspected of being in conflict of interest, and their names are also known to sparrows on the branch. They have the opportunity to act like Minister Zuzul, but this obviously does not occur to them, probably because of the fear that the report on them will not be as crystal clear as Minister Zuzul's. As for my personal engagement and my role in this god-awful Imostroy affair as an agent coming from Imotski, I can only say that I am proud of my role in all of this solely for the reason that I have lobbyed for Imostroy workers, and I will also lobby for Trimot tomorrow, Imot and other business entities in the Imot region. It's my obligation as an agent representing my end and I'm not going to give it up. Unfortunately, this affair has caused invaluable damage in the first place to new owners of Imostroy who invested big money and pawned their assets, as well as Imotski as a whole. The Croatian government has shown its social sensitivity and special sensitivity to Imotski, who is in an extremely difficult economic situation, in a decision to waive his claims in favour of workers. A letter from Imostroi workers expressing their gratitude to the Croatian government for its understanding and willingness to resolve their demands has not been published by the media. It is unlikely that this letter does not fit in the Agyptian scheme and the overall campaign against Minister Zuzula because in the government's decision to grant a claim for the benefit of workers, it rarely mentions the fact that the former government changed the order of payment to the state in front of workers by amending the bankruptcy law and was full of the mouth of to God's social sensitivity. The campaign against Minister Zuzula is reportedly politically motivated by the State's Attorney's Office and State Audit Report. The government and individuals in the government are often in the grip of an affair and none of them have been founded, nor reasoned, nor this one. The basic gain of free societies is that everyone is innocent until proven otherwise. This principle must apply to all officials, both for Minister Zuzula today and for Cacic and Tomcic tomorrow as well as to anyone suspected of conflict of interest. And finally my full support to Minister Zuzul and his efforts and all of us here to defend him as, apparently, an innocent man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27803	Thank you very much. We have further Mr. Krešimir Cosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27804	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. I think there's something far out here today I'd say maybe more important than a possible conflict of interest from Foreign Minister Zuzula, perhaps something far more dangerous, and I want to point that out. It's about trying to affirm some new old theory about determining moral, political responsibilities and then when moral and political responsibility is determined then a criminal and everything else that follows will be determined. And it's dangerous, and it's something that we must organisedly confront as a democratic society. Job techs know very well how it is done, it starts with targeted media orchestration, as soldiers would tell me artillery preparation, it is guilty, it is guilty, and it is repeated for days and then in the Croatian Assembly no less or less after that moral condemnation needs to determine political responsibility that is the mechanism, it is a theory whose times I hope are definitely gone forever. On the one hand, we have a clear view of the institutions of the rule of law, attitudes which unfortunately do not receive adequate weight and importance in Croatian media. And what's the consequence? The result is a dangerously worrying fact that comes down from one side to the conflict of the Croatian public that has some views that are the result I would say orchestrated and conducting opinion and management of the public and on the other hand we have the position of the institutions of the rule of law and that is a dangerous conflict, which disintegrates, endangers this society, endangers its credibility, the ability to function effectively and efficiently. Unfortunately, I myself have had personal experience of such a character from the 95th year when I came to the Ministry of Defense as Deputy Defence Minister Mr. Gojko Šushko. A criminal, a thief, an uneducated, suspicious diplomat, etc., targeted long-term orchestrated attacks but not only against an individual but against an institution, against a particular policy, and it is unfortunately a constant that does not change in these areas, and that is why I stress it is extremely dangerous. In this way organized society cannot function. It is not at all disputed that our common goal of all political parties should be as high-quality as possible, combating corruption. But we can't do it in an improvised way, we can't do it in political campaigns from today to tomorrow selective and what's also dangerous in all of this I want to stress it's so-called. The theory of selective guilt. It is only some others who are guilty, and by definition, the culprits are predetermined, and they have to be guilty, and it has to be constantly permanently proven and repeated through the media and the guilt between us. There's no "no" among them. And that's why I really don't understand why this debate isn't public today because it would appear that many who have taught us here today about determining moral and political responsibilities that have really been responsible for many illegal affairs, in this country over the past few years, have given us a lecture, have left this hall. It's not part of democracy that's just part of their theory of selective guilt against which HDZ is guilty and no one else in this country, and it's dangerous and it needs to be combated. I'm going to point out the following, and I think it's important to do it again. November 11th New List page 7. The heads can't take off the media or politicians, said Mr. Cain, and as far as I understand from his presentation today, he's sorry he said it, and it's not good. The heads can't take down the media or politicians, but can do so by the institutions of the organised state, in an organised and tolerated way, and these campaigns unfortunately are neither part of the fight against corruption nor the quality and efficiency of the Croatian state. Standard assessments and assessments instead of I would say joint organised actions, joint organised efforts to affirm the work of the Commission on conflict of interest because it has not been done, we have to say, however, enough organised effort for this commission to be established and to begin to function. It is not a commission like some think an institution that can manage HDZ so that this commission can be affirmed we need not only a political consensus but we need people who really understand the mission, objectives and tasks of these institutions and who know the technology of the job how to do it qualityly and not in order to determine who is and who is not in conflict, or conflict of interest. That's not how it works. Certainly, I do not wish to forget this occasion, to point out one important fact, it is important for us to have a commission that is important to our laws, but I always stress and repeat, neither the commission nor the laws will ever be able to remove corruption in one society unless this society only in an organised way improves quality and professional ethics at all levels, especially amongst people who are involved in politics. And I'm going to say it's inadmissible that after a number of years, almost 15 years we don't have a government institution to deal with organised education for all those who enter state policy in many segments. Such government schools as John Kennedy Garden School, etc. and many others are important for many countries and I would say they are particularly important for the Croatian state. And I would like to stress the following, such an institution was established in 1999 all preparations in its work were completed, and after 3 January, without any explanation, the institution was then abolished by the Prime Minister's decision. 50 young magistrates who were preparing to work in the institution and other scientists were simply removed from the project, and that is not how organised and legal state behaves. The rule of law on a possible conflict of interest said its own, but unfortunately small letters somewhere in "Vjesnik" on 18, 18.11. On a page below, in small letters, it reads: "The following, I quote, on the basis of the available data, the State's Attorney's Office did not determine the existence of a suspicion of any crime. Such facts, the views of the rule of law are not respected, but therefore special attention is given in the "New List" where a gentleman simply says for a conflict of interest is sufficient and intention, he did not say what intention, conscious or unconscious, but the intention is sufficient. And this gentleman says further, to suspect that a conflict of interest is more than enough of the existence of intent. I'd say it's very dangerous, it's a mechanism to cause a controlled crisis, to bring down ministers, to bring down governments, to leave room for arbitrary political arbitration, and that's something that's unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27805	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27806	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. My debate on a proposal to launch a trust issue with a member of the Government of Croatia, as well as with Foreign Minister Dr Miomir Zuzul, would fit perfectly in with my debate on Croatian television and in fact it is a pity that we haven't united those two points, because there are some very, very touching points. The Zuzul case, the Hebrang case, so this case, then that case, then we call the case an affair, so we add a little bit of an adjuvant so it doesn't forget. The word we started with obviously became part of a media retreat, from comment to comment, and there were sentences. The property companies "Karin Universal" "Imostroy" in bankruptcy and the company "MTS" become media exposed clearly in a negative light. It has come, however, with a delay of time that companies owned by the wife of individual ministers are unusually important, so important that they become an obstacle to entering European integration as we have heard today. We've become obviously funny. I think we've figured out so far what founding is, which is, which means the founding stake, which is the property of the company, we've realized that 10 grand is not sold for 500 grand, but that it's a business space that's worth so much. But who cares about the truth? The minister's guilt is his defense. He really acted, completely uninvited, which he probably was. As a rule, the culprits have great defenses, well-prepared. The former minister and former Parliament president set an excellent example for the thesis. The former defence minister gave jobs to his wife's companies who had previously received a well-paid job making tender documentation excellently explained the prepared defense, especially immorality in their own ministry and the monopoly status of their companies. A sentence prepared for the defense was enough, it was all by law. Let's ask entrepreneurs what their chances are to get a job if the companies themselves are preparing tender documentation. Huge. And then I guess the law is immoral and definitely guilty. The former president of parliament said he didn't even notice when he had a 200-year-old sitting on his account and slightly more than thousands of kunas. God, who even notices that. Excellent defense and money is earned fairly in state affairs, and the cleanest jobs are if the state gives jobs to its minister and its president. Unfortunately for the ex-boyfriend and one and the other. But the team will win the election again. Your own companies could be out of a job. The SDPs were at that time engaged in shipyards, yachts, gas stations, parking lots and the like, clearly not directly owned, but in any case indirectly. I quote the accusation: "The 2nd September Government of the Republic of Croatia has written off 6.2 million kuna in debt to settle the demands of workers." I remembered the bankruptcy of the company "Top" Kerestinec in which the workers were absolutely separated from the assets of the company that were in parts two years ago, so gentlemen bought four entrepreneurs for your time, without the obligation to hire workers. The order of settlement for workers and states, the former government has changed to the state and workers, definitely at the expense of the workers, so what happened must have been for the benefit of the workers, strangely enough that it was done by a Social Democratic Party, which I suppose, a party of pardons, which should probably take care of the workers. So much for the sin of government. If there are several transactions between Karin Universal Engineering and MTS in the form of loans, then almost all our entrepreneurs are criminals, and this will probably explain well to them SDP, HNS and HSS representatives, especially HNS entrepreneurs. If they knew the Bible, they might never throw away the stone first, but they are not expected to. Media logistics works well but conductors wave without notes, so this biennial performance is not convincing. The goal is not Minister Zuzul but the government, and it needs evidence, the State's Attorney's Office and the State's audit say it is stated in accordance with the law, but is not taken into account. Unconvinced structures are repeated from day to day in all media, and this is how they occur, there is an affair, and it takes more than a share of salaries for workers. I am aware that you gentlemen would prefer to watch a protest of dissatisfied workers, roadblocks, strikes and the like. Strange some conflict of interest. As the charges arise, you can see from the recent contribution of a television station where they claim to be headship, it seems to me Dubrovnik, that it has awarded a concession, now listen to this, the concession to the cousin of a member, one member, or county headship, one councilman of the county chiefship. So obviously I don't know, but in any case, insinuations and accusations. And now imagine, a colleague of a small island community with a smile commented that almost all relatives are in his municipality, and no one outside will come to work, so on and on. In order to protect himself from conflicts of interest, I ask all entrepreneurs who report to competitions, to numerous competitions in the Municipality of Saint Sunday to apply a family tree with all branches at least two hundred years ago. We're a small country, so family bond is more of a rule than an exception. Gentlemen, your specialty is a party tree with tightly intertwined branches and in four years the symbiosis has somehow worked, you have embraced the neighboring state tree, because the state juices have positively affected your property, but that has come to an end. By creating the Zuzul case, Hebrang, and so on, you want to restore the previous situation, and I really don't know if this is all the fruit of your impatience or personal loss, but explain it to the people you're trying to manipulate, and that's going to be difficult. I think this story is over, the only question is who's the next minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27807	Thank you very much. It is Mrs. Mirjana Brnadić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27808	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Miomir Zuzula's abilities and his successes on the external political agenda and his overall contribution to the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader should not be discussed, as it is known. And even political opponents admit it. It is also widely known that the attacks on the indictment and defilement of Minister Miomir Zuzula are known and tested SK method, a public link. Even before the relevant institutions establish the truthfulness of suspicions, the avalanche in all the media from press to special TV shows, with the god-awful goal of disclosing a minister's suspicious affairs. In fact, with one single goal, which is the destabilising of the Croatian government and the Croatian Democratic Community. You're doing a hell of a lot of noise. HDZ is firm with its ministers and government, which shows and proves its work every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27809	Let's be collegiate to our colleague, and let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27810	The HDZ is tight with its government, with ministers working alongside the Government, who demonstrates and demonstrates their success in managing the state every day and will not tolerate illegal acts. I am responsibly saying that in HDZ, we will not support any minister or any official whose competent institutions prove a conflict of interest or a criminal act. But we also don't agree to public persecution, a public lynch based on suspicions and insinuations. Looks to me like someone's getting very nervous. Because the election for the president of Croatia is closer, and it is known why they are nervous. We say in HDZ that officials should not put their private interest above the public. That they must carry out their duty with honor, responsibly, knowingly and honestly and untrustworthyly. We've won the citizens' trust, and we won't let him down. I was going to say something about the conflict of interest and to present some data and evidence, but no doubt no insinuation for a former minister about his conflict of interest, but there will be an opportunity to present it here in this House of Commons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27811	Thank you very much. Mr. Jure Bitunac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27812	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I congratulate the government and I welcome the decision to write off the taxpayer's debt to Imostro Imotski, and in order to reconcile the obligations towards workers towards 168 workers who worked and did not receive salaries. Living in Dalmatia Zagora is very well known by people in Imotski, Sinj, and in all of this area, where permanent emigration with the belly after bread was present and the Croatian Government in the 1990s by establishing Imostroj, so the founder of the Croatian state did not stress it tonight, and it was in 100% state ownership trying in some way to help that end. Perhaps we should ask ourselves tonight what we as parliamentary representatives can do, and what can the Croatian government do in this direction? The Croatian government's decision to leave claims to workers is an attempt to help the Imotski, Imotski province. In this regard, I believe that the government has shown its social concern, sensitivity both for defenders, pensioners, and in this particular case for people who have been on the street and who have not received salaries for years. As for the write-off, I'll only say the following. I already said that in one replica, we need to know that the government of the 1990s, so the HDZ government, all the HDZ governments until 2000, that in order to stabilise and economic opportunities and to save certain companies, and by virtue of the Sanitary Law, they helped and wrote off many companies of debt, I am particularly familiar with the Cetinski area when it comes to Dalmatian women, when it comes to Cetinki, they were far greater than this. However, the government of Ivica Racan in its term was also through a policy of targeted bankruptcy, and in order to change for the better, I believe for the better, the economic picture of Croatia did the same thing so that the Dalmatians that I mentioned earlier also wrote down a significant amount of about 30 million in that time. I can say that the distinct right of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, which was given to the Croatian Employment Service that during the sale of the Dalmatian woman that sold for 4 million kunas, for 4 million kunas, I repeat that they gave it up on a separate right and all that money went as far as it could, the money was small, the workers went a lot to settle their obligations to the employees. I repeat that the intervention of the Croatian state in terms of improving the economic picture should be present in the future, and I believe that in this direction we will make good moves, and as we know all the countries of the world both in the east and in the west, transition countries, when it comes to intervention in the economy and assistance to those on the street are present. As far as the purchase of property by Karin Engineering company is concerned, I don't want to repeat it. The unquestionable fact is that the buyer bought the property and did not buy a legal person with his specific rights and obligations, etc. Therefore, he bought clean assets without rights, without obligations, and thus without obligations to workers. The conflict of interest over Imostroy de facto can't even be and I think it's even too much to talk about. And when it comes to the relationship between Karin and the Zuzul family, it must be clear that there cannot be any conflict of interest, if there are any irregularities then it should be the subject of an investigation of state services and the rule of law. However, the State's Attorney's Office has cleared any doubts. Whether we who are in this House, whether we who pass laws will question the institutions of the rule of law in the judiciary, whether we ourselves in some way by our conduct, do not contribute to our speech that the picture of Croatia... the word of corruption is in the world is exactly what it is. Let me, Mr. President, say a few more words about the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest? I think Mr. Kapraljevic, who is there all the time, and I don't want to call my colleagues, we could have talked about it in the hallway, but it doesn't matter, but I'll say it, it's my personal impression that something has always been camouflaged, protected somehow, etc., so here's me for myself specifically. I ended up on some portal on a web site. It's a page, because I was the director of a utility company, and I'm saying it now for the first time in public, but it's clear. And that's not what I came across, it's my desk while they're listing there on the Internet, Jure Bitunjac is a parliamentary representative in conflict of interest. And it's about me being the director of the municipal society means not my company, but the municipal society sent a single inquiry and I asked for an application to be manifest by my status with a request to still be director at the time, because it was about re-designing businesses and de facto and choosing a new director, it's still a process as we all know there's always more interest when it comes to such a job. And by listing that particular one night, I was in Zagreb, a cup of tea tells me "you're here and there" etc. That's when it comes to the Committee, his work, therefore, I won't, I'm not even happy with the Law on conflict in the prevention of interest, but I believe that he is who he is can be implemented, but there we need to be correct all together and opposition and position. However, I would like to say something in the end and it seems to me that this is one thought-out scenario, that this impact on foreign policy is successfully implemented by this government by Dr. Sanader and Dr. Zuzul, who have been accepted, extremely accepted in political, worldly circles. And I think the sight of these choices is that this is just one attempt to construct a case and that in some way try to save it can because the real danger is that instead of the president, we'll soon have a president. And exactly what was I supposed to do? It was meant to save the political skin of the electoral body in some way and this case was defacto constructed and it was an attempt at all costs, at all costs, to undermine HDZ. However, I believe that each of us MPs must personally wonder where the national interest is because, when it comes to national interest, we also use that term in the position and the opposition. Here, I'd like to finish this, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27813	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go. And I'm sorry, there's one correction to Mr. Anton Kapraljevic's incorrect quote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27814	I've never reported for corrections of incorrect allegations until the moment Mr. Jure Bitunac said he was in conflict of interest. That's not true. Mr. Jure Bitunjac has cleared up his conflict of interest thanks to the committee's discussion, I publicly commend him here in front of everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27815	Thank you very much. It's good to hear that, even if it's late for these hours. Now it's Mr. Zivko Nenadić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27816	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, even though there's no point in arguing anymore, so all those numbers, the arguments I've armed with, they don't make any sense because obviously those triggers don't mean anything. And in fact, in all this debate today, it is the most disappointing statement of the opposition MPs here that the opinion of the state's attorney doesn't mean anything, that the opinion of the state's audit doesn't mean anything, it's a tragedy that parliamentarians in one state say so. Even though we're here in the corrections of the allegations of everything we've said, and how it's been going, and it's got nothing to do with the government's decisions with the buyer, it's all clear, it's all said, and I'm not really going to repeat it. And which is the result of this whole affair, in fact, which is not an affair, and the whole as they called it, the Imostroy case, which is not a case at all, however, that sale itself and the Imostroy course ended successfully. What's the score? The result is that the 168 workers who worked for three years who did not receive the salary that they still received most of these backlogs and others that are more important, most important, far more important, is that the factory started to work and that 20 new workers were employed. And then what's the problem? The problem is obviously in politics, which is that the promoters of this shift felt that this government's policy, and especially foreign policy, is indeed daily harvesting and receiving, successes and ordering results. And one of the most important factors in that is, of course, the foreign minister. And of course it's a thorn in the eye for them that needs to be prevented or what's done. And that's what the SDP Vice President's statement shows a few days ago in Free Dalmatia, Mrs. Opačić, who says we're not interested in Zuzul, we're interested in the government. And that's true, they thought that, and they kept saying that HDZ would take them into isolation, that no one would accept them, and now that they were happily seen and gladly accepted as partners and the Croatian government and foreign minister, then by any means should be prevented. And then, of course, provoking through the media that unfortunately are largely, I would now talk about journalists their speakers and then then call on the same speakers that the public's view is that they should resign, etc. But that's what we see, see and see more and more the public. And then he writes one of their journalists and they say it's a public opinion. So they won't be able to get away with this because they don't have any arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27817	Thank you very much. Mr. Mato Stimac. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27818	Mr. Vice President, I will try to be brief everything is said in this launch of the trust issue of the Foreign Minister which was stated and signed in all these orcrestal attacks throughout this period, which was contained in a series of television and press statements in which it was spoken, deceived and wanted to discredit directly the government that is experiencing its growing success every day. And who's talking about moral values today? Who's talking about moral political matters? Pusic, Tomčić, Racan, are these the moral values of Croatian society? Are those the ones who should be talking about morality? Don't we remember the three wives of the former prime minister employed in state services in the highest institutions? Have we forgotten that? It wasn't a conflict of interest, there were no irregularities. When he began to reach out to those who had actually robbed the Croatian state, when things were seen to come, I ask you, Vice President, to assure me freely to speak. And I'd ask my colleagues if they think I have to break up, I'll break up. When they are sensitive, so close friends that someone will have to face Croatia's justice and the Croatian public to answer, they went together as a scattered orchestra, hit Minister Zuzul because we'll be able to prescribe something and actually shoot down the prime minister and government. Clearly, unequivocally why did I mention the three Pusic, Tomcic, Racan who were the first to sign? Because it is clearly seen from their statements that they have been correctly handled with the help of Mr Kapraljevic, who collected certain arguments for them and then resigned so as not to be the one who brought it out but in the press, these are the factions of HDZ blamed by Minister Zuzul. Let's go cover up and let the HDZs look for each other. Clearly, Tomcic says he welcomes Sanader's intention to clear up the negatives in society. But he surprised me by the way I thought. He shouldn't be involved in politics because he was caught in a trap along with Zuzula. Imagine how planned they are as hunters of animals making traps. And who, with what right, and I will make it clear that there are other statements that speak about how they do it today, today. Easy. HDZ are all affairs. HDZs have all been thieves since their entire time, and as far as HDZ affairs are concerned, they're highly echoed in public. We're wondering why they're so loud in public. Why didn't your affairs echo like that? Well, because you've changed the entire media executives in both the press and the electronic media. That's why you have everything under control and we're the ones who didn't dare to change all that and put it under control like the real government would. But believe me, you will not experience that this Croatian House and these honorable Croatian MPs who together created the state of Croatia allow your insinuations, your delusions, your lies do not end and that the Croatian public does not know the true truth of who you are, what you have done with state property throughout this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27819	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Antun Kapraljevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27820	I am very glad that Mr. Djakic called me and declared me one of those who collected information about Mr. Zuzul. The only thing I've collected from Mr. Zuzula is his property card. And what he wrote in the property card, you can all find out because the property cards are public. Both mine and yours and Mr. Zuzul's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27821	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Nikola Sopčić, come in. I hear you've decided to cut the debate short, so I'd like to thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27822	I'll cut it short, I'll cut it short. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, respected foreign ministers, colleagues and colleagues. It is increasingly evident that this whole debate over not trusting Foreign Minister Zuzul was well-cuted at the dawn of the future presidential campaign. Obviously, it was the proposal to draw attention from certain events such as the current president's statements that Croatia and Montenegro had never fought a war, so the president himself looked back at this case in his famous style where he said if two had robbed a kiosk two years ago it does not amnestize the one who does so today. I don't know which two he meant. But it's not good if those two make up someone else to distract themselves and forget what happened back then. Accordingly, we have witnessed in these less than a year to get out of certain ministers, the desire is to try to find a weak spot for this government so long the target was Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Dr. Andrija Hebrang, but when it didn't work out there going on and now is the target of the foreign minister. It's a little strange that he didn't care about the morale of government officials and their conflict of interest, and in many he was present in the government itself, the former government of the coalition since the very beginning of work. No one noticed from the signatories, 44 of them that one of the government's first moves then and then the economy minister was to vote on customs reliefs for the import of toys, and by chance the business is being done by his wife's firm. Unfortunately, it is not important whether damage is done to the Republic of Croatia throughout this campaign towards the foreign minister. A certain damage was done, but it was made by the very ones who tried to construct this affair. Today, a colleague named Ferenchak also referred to the non-payment of obligations to the state. So let me take a quick look at it, but for a shorter, closer period, an event than two months ago, but it's another company. A competition has been held in our county for the construction of the sports hall. It was contacted by several bidders and selected the most favourable firm but then one of the bidders who is familiar with the situation that this company gets jobs complained about the tender because, and argued that the company submitted a false confirmation of the Varazdin tax administration because the company in question owes a tax. After the complaint, it was found that the company owed a million kuna tax and submitted a false tax certificate. The company happens to be called "Coning" Foreign Minister Miomir Zuzul, one of the most successful foreign ministers since the existence of the Croatian state, is probably the reason for being more interesting as a target. [[Intruder: Which is an accident.]] It's a fact and it's a job of opposition to try to challenge certain government moves, to be a certain correction, but it's not good if it's done by twisting facts and performing structures that have nothing to do with the truth. I'd like to talk a little bit about facts. The fact is that the company "Karin Universal Engineering" bought the property, stressing the assets of the company "Imo Machine" in bankruptcy and I can't see what the interest of the buyer of the property is? Interest is a worker. It is an interest of the worker to write off the debt or to keep them calm from the bankruptcy mass. I don't know Mr. Karin, but I don't think he's such a sucker that he tried to intervene for something in which he has no personal interest. So all the arguments are getting thinner then try to construct something else. I can't even believe that the problem is that Imotski workers, and for that reason, there's been so much grumbling over the write-off of the claim when we know that many companies, many companies, and especially the famous "Vicor Lenac," have been pouring far more money from the State budget than the one that's been talked about here. And in the end, it turned out to be the least of the benefits of the workers in Lentz. Here, this write-off goes directly to workers who have not received their salary in 3 years and therefore their salaries and severances are in place. For this very reason, any further dismembering of the relationship between the owners of the company "Carin Universal Engineering" Mr. and Mr. Minister as well as his wife and their relatives is excessive and unnecessary. If we continue to believe that the relatives of government officials should not be engaged in any business where the country's participant is, it would be a good idea to prescribe to which knee it applies and see if that applies to the wives of the former ministers. For all the above and for the vice president's appeal, I'd be done. Finally, I support the government's and my colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Community Club, and I believe there is no reasonable reason to vote for mistrust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27823	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Bagaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27824	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. From the beginning of the affair to this hour I would sum up everything that has happened so far in the following: Our opposition is joking, they lack only power. In the assembly, they shall be gathered together, and they shall rule over us, and you shall give power to the nations; and you shall persecute the HDZ into hell. Last is our target, and Minister Zuzul is only collateral damage. I'd say victim. And therefore, Mr. Minister, my support to you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27825	Thank you very much. For shortness, for shortness and clarity. Mrs Zdenka Babic-Petricevic has now applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27826	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I'm really going to try to be brief, which is not common with me, but a few minutes of vice president of the HDZ Club. For this reason, I didn't want to give up, because today's debate, first of all, is I look forward to one side, which is happening in one casual atmosphere, and on the other hand, it's not a casual atmosphere, because here the verdicts have been repeated several times today, by several clubs, by several, in an individual debate of several colleagues. Their judgments very much visited me at the time of the political lynching. And the political lynch, I hope, and I thought that it ended with the establishment of a sovereign independent state of Croatia and that it would never try to return again in Croatia, but the attempts seem to have just begun, so I will end up with this one opening part, and I will immediately cross over and respond to what I have reported several times today in the debate, but here with our kindness we have given up correcting the incorrect quote and replica, but I have been offered a few statements, so for example, Mrs. Ingrid Antičević, who, I don't know where she is now or I don't care if she's sleeping, whether she's listening to me, whether she's watching me, but I won't stay in debt to her, so I'll tell her. Dear lady, about the reputation of this government chosen by the Croatian people, for the reputation of Minister Zuzul, perhaps tomorrow there will be someone else from the ministers and also from us, don't worry, don't be so bold and here today what you have done several times, especially from your club, you have read, read the verdict to one person. It was past that time, Mrs. Anticevic, when my friend Petar Shale, in Zadar, received five years in prison, and the verdict was issued on behalf of a political link by a well-known judge, Marinovic. Don't come back or try for that time. Mr. Ferenczak, in connection with reading the verdict to Minister Zuzul. He started counting and then comparing his president, Mr. Cacic. Mr. Ferencak, there is no comparison between these two persons, with neither spirit nor politics nor morals. And if you started defending the gentlemen of your presidents, your parties and your clubs, you'd soon be left without the first people in your parties. So to Mr. Cacic that you did not mention the case in Dubrovnik, that you did not mention the case of Israel to him, that you did not mention to him the case of Zadar and the Technical School, that you did not mention to him all that is not mentioned here today. And as for our conscience, how we will decide today on Mr. Zulul, the Croatian Democratic Community always has a conscious and responsible debate on everything, including its people, and when we have set them up and entrusted them with trust, in ministerial chairs, so we follow their work, and we do not solve our problems with a baseball bat. And your voice today was really tired, me, I'm really worried, I guess Mr. Ferencak got tired of you tearing down your illegal three-storey in the suburbs of the city of Zagreb. But, however, here, I'll end this. Although I am an emigrant agent, I am glad that the government has made a decision regarding Imostroy and thus proves this government not only here what has been mentioned several times today is socially sensitive. For every end, every MP of us says, they're in charge, and I'm going to say that for the property. The property was not only in charge of this power, and those of all previous authorities and future authorities, for this country and this government is responsible because it wants the whole of Croatia to live, so that the property ends live, and for many the property end of the unknowns, and God forbid that you, on the right hand side, honor the rare exceptions, decide on the fate of the imotic region. Then they'd turn into nursing homes, but we won't let that happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27827	Well, ladies and gentlemen, MPs. I call upon all MPs to bring the debate to an end properly. We've still got a lot of MPs, and I'm inviting everyone to be here at the end of the debate to vote. I hope that those who have run this, those who have run this agenda, will also be at the vote. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27828	Thank you, Mr. President of Parliament. Honored ladies and gentlemen. Honored Minister. It will be that this time around midnight is an optimal time for a kind of debate, a serious debate that some things in our society should still be resolved once and for all. But it is very interesting that this serious debate at this time is taking place beyond the public's eyes. Before noon and in the afternoon we had a debate about television and we all, and above all about its role in public, and here's one of these, to say a very important, very important debate, we decided that it was happening, it was happening without the presence of the same public. And we're actually ready to do anything and swear to that public. And indeed, this case, the case of a vote of confidence, or of a mistrust of Commissioner Zuzul, opens this very important issue of ours, is what our relationship is with the public. Once we swear to that public, and when our position suits us and we win the elections, then we kind of get our legitimacy out of that public, and the second time that same public changes our opinion, then we're very inclined to change that relationship and say that it's being constructed, that the public is being manipulated and that it's happening to us, just like that, such affairs, scandals, scandals, which I don't know question our credibility, our credibility, and even today with these serious moments for Croatia, we're still discussing some of the issues that some of the rules of the game would have to resolve. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But obviously that such game rules do not exist and we have been here harshly for 15 years now that this Parliament, under more recent social political circumstances, is actually avoiding establishing these rules of the game. That's where it can happen when these rules of games are gone, that everything is allowed. Is that how we want it to be, this one we present, so very often in these 15 years we could hear that some things may not have been, were legally, or were not against the law, but that their morality is questionable. But on the other hand, I can also understand a whole series of actors involved in our political life, that it can't actually be solved when the rules of the game don't exist and I think, above all, that a very ethical code of conduct in Parliament which the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest should perhaps resolve, that this is a story that has appeared since the 1990s, but is actually constantly prolonging for some better times, and these better times never come. What's really bothering me, and that's actually one fact how we look at the fact that some politicians become lobbyists. It usually happens at the end of a career, it's the same legitimate right of every politician to become a lobbyist and it's his conscious choice and he's certainly in some way breaking up with a political career and starting to deal with lobbying and I don't mind it, I think that this modern world, the democratic world knows and that we just have to accept it too. God forbid Croatia has as many lobbyists as possible. But now there is another problem that also a modern democratic world with a long democratic tradition where and where it successfully solves, and that is the problem of coming back, whether a lobbyist can return to politics and when he can return. I think that's actually the thing that we've been taking silently in many situations, and we simply didn't ask ourselves that, and actually, this man who's coming back from the lobbyist, he just wanted to go back to active political life, he didn't want to be tied up by all this luggage, this fact that doesn't have to be worth it at all, but that he's lobbying, that in certain jobs he's been involved, that he's close to certain people that I can later say in making political decisions can be a distraction, and I just think that's the case we've been facing these days, for a month now. If I didn't have any animosity towards my colleague, Zuzul, I think I might be able to remind myself of the spring of '99 when he, as an ambassador to Washington, was making some statements that were part of the HDZ then, I don't say everyone, didn't like it, I was publicly defending him because I thought it was the ambassador who conducted the state policy, and certainly not the partial interests of a party whose lucky case belonged to him. I think I stopped very clearly that time. But as I'm saying now, I can't stop right now because of this fact that it was due to be taken into account and when the government was drawn together, the mandater, that exactly the man who came from January 3rd to 2000 was very narrow, or decided to break up his political career and became involved in... circles, and then at the end of last year was suddenly returned to politics, and I think that's where these problems come from I don't want to go in, and I don't think that Parliament should be turned into a courtroom, but the voice of the public is the voice of God after all, and I think that every party and the prime minister must take account of it, and that the public should not be denied. ... /The speaker turned off, then turned back on./... I would ask you Mr. President to ask these some who systematically do it when I say they don't do it anyway...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27829	You put out your own hand, I watched. Go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27830	How can I turn it off on my own? But well, I think you all know, you're always right that we agreed today so I'll accept your explanation. It is precisely the British Parliament that because of all these things, such or similar adopted an ethical code which is called ethical principles that apply to all aspects of public life, but... The principles of his creator and there he says, he writes things, and I will now briefly list these principles that every politician should stick to, and that is the principle of selfishness, meaning first of all that he advocates and defends only public interests, that is the principle of integrity. [[You don't understand.]] Public politicians must not allow, public workers, or politicians, to be bound by individuals or organisations who can influence them in the performance of their duties. Then it's the principle of objectivity, certainly there's the principle of responsibility, and according to that principle, they differ seriously from non-serious societies. It's the principle of openness, every time a politician has to put all the information he has at his disposal just to remove any suspicion, that's the principle of honesty and the last one, but not so and less importantly, that's the principle of leadership by example. In some ways, we are committed and we are in some way the mirror of this society, and it is very important how alone in these situations we behave that by example we are just showing and proving that politics is primarily honorable work. And precisely in that sense, that this case is precisely the reason that we, too, bring such principles, that is, such an ethical code to this House and that we would finally have ideological discussions, discussions that are... and which are actually each other's defenses in advance attack... /The speaker turned off, and then turned back on./...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27831	With your right index finger, you're off.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27832	How can I when it's... I have to admit, Mr. President, you have a terrible game review, but for a few times, it happens to you, too, but here's the end. And I really say it is high time that we move from these ideological discussions to the rules of the games and in this Parliament which would then commit every political official no matter what political option he comes from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27833	Now you're done? Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27834	Mr. President, Mr. Minister. Listening to this debate is good that Croatian television does not transmit this. It is good that Croatian television does not pass this on so as not to hear this misery in the Croatian Parliament. Why do I say that? It is unfortunate that in this debate we defend one case of conflict of interest with other cases of conflict of interest and that there is no end and that is very sad for the Croatian people. Unfortunately, we have also entered the constitutional crisis tonight, and it seems to me, as part of the election campaign, and that is unfortunate, and I have to repeat again what the party president said when he said we were sticking to this country's rules, which is to accept or respect, even though there is a lot of hollowity in the current Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, this would not have happened. This would not happen and should be realistically said for this part concerning the amendments of the Committee members in the last session, the great guilt is borne primarily by the ruling coalition. That's true. You remember how he was expelled from the Committee by Mr. Radelj in such a way that the President of the Constitutional Court wrote to President Shakespeare that he asked the Constitutional Court, one insinuator, for information on why they didn't fill out the property cards. And what did we come for today? We turned the Croatian Parliament into a courtroom. So is this the Croatian Parliament? It can't be a courtroom. The Croatian Parliament must not be a courtroom, and we see that this continues. Here's a proposal for an investigation committee of conflicts of interest regarding Mr. Cacic and that, I hear there will now be another investigative committee for Mr. President Sanader to have these indications, and where we will end up. Are we going to judge someone here every day or are we going to work on the rule of law, that the Croatian Parliament, if it has an obligation, and has an obligation to appoint a commission to do so and to enable that committee to do so? It's rightly said today and then it would be easier for Mr. Zuzul, I know him and I respect him and I appreciate him as a man, we've known each other for a long time, he'd be much easier today, he's here on the defendant's bench. But why, because of the failure of the rule of law and because of the error of us in the Croatian Parliament, that no one else is to blame here, we representatives for not allowing this commission to work and in the current form of the commission could work that it wanted to work. It's not officially dismembered. Why didn't you from the ruling majority help Minister Zuzul and apply yourself to determine interest. Why you couldn't stand it, you could handle it, you brought him here today to sit on the bench like he was a defendant. And you could have done that, like you could have done that part. We didn't sign anything, we stuck to principle and consistency, and if what we said you were holding on to it, it would be far easier for him today. But that's the thing where you go to boast about these things, change the members of the commission across your feet, and we could agree you could have had 2, 3 now you have 4, 5 in this commission you could help Minister Zuzul and give that proposal and it could be all fixed and the thing is clear to me today you wouldn't lose it deep into the night because tomorrow is even more important to us, tomorrow is the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War. I tell you this objectively, you brought the man to the defendant's bench most responsible and you could've helped him. I appreciate him and I respect him. He knows how to do his job. You didn't allow the establishment and work of an investigative committee and that's what it is... So, well, maybe I'm speaking louder so I don't mind when it goes off, thank you very much for reminding me that I need to turn on the microphone. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] Well... the glasses are six inches thick and he says he's out on his own. Therefore, I will finish my part since we are here deep into the night, I plead to this Croatian Parliament to do what we are tasked with and to no longer allow the Croatian Parliament to turn into a courtroom, to actually place people on the defendant's bench and there is no place to do what we are supposed to do to establish a commission and all of these cases, and cases of investigative committee for Mr. Cacic, for Mr. Tomcic, which you have proposed, perhaps tomorrow on the right, will propose for President Sanader and we are committed to what we are here for. With this presidential campaign, Croatia is entering an additional constitutional crisis and we need to take measures to make everything work and really raise the standard of citizens, not to lose here by arguing and accusing a man who is probably innocent and would prove that this is so that this is all. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27835	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27836	Mr. President, I must correct the incorrect allegations of my colleague Kovacevic. In fact, counterpart Kovacevic said that HDZ is trying to justify one conflict of interest with another serious conflict of interest. This is simply incorrect because in all acts we have made it very clear that, based on the fact that there is no conflict of interest in this case which has been filed and proposed an opposition, there has been no opposition and this is clear and evident from the audit reports and reports of the State's attorney and from the facts that we have stated. And the other thing is don't tell us that we put Mr. Zuzula on the defendant's bench because it's simply incorrect, so read the material, and you'll see the signatures of those who did it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27837	There's no Mr. Kovacevic, you'll get a warning, you won't know the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I know. There's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27838	Article 214 concerning Article 209 should have been said by Mr. Honorable Representative which corrects my incorrect claim, I said he could be in conflict of interest and you as president should have said that Mr. Kovacevic did not say that because Mr. Kovacevic did not say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27839	Mr. Kovacevic is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and you get a warning. Continuation, correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Jagoda Martinčević Majska.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27840	I have to correct a respected colleague in two claims, we, therefore, brought him here as if he were in a courtroom, brought by someone else, and it's clear who brought him to the one who signed it. And the second is not true that the rule of law doesn't work because if the state's attorney and the state's audit don't belong to the rule of law, then I don't know what belongs to the rule of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27841	Just before I saw the phonogram of the session when Vice President Luka Bebić chaired the comment of MP Ivo Lončar when he commented on MP Ljubica Lončar's statement, Lalić, so it is clear that in that noise Mr. Bebić had not heard and that it was obvious from this phonogram that MP Ivo Lončar had hurt, offended him, I now give him a warning. Representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27842	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be brief what I meant to say in favour of Mr. Minister I said when I answered on behalf of the club. I'd like to make one comment about how I felt as a man, as a representative of this entire debate here. I mean, because I've been eating press bread so far, and there's been a lot of calls here for journalists and news reports. I am colleagues and colleagues astounded by the fact that in a single parliament such as this, on the basis of news reports, it is in a literal sense to judge and judge. It's my impression, and I can't shake it off. I point out that because every newspaper report is known to last for just one day. News reports are also being made to spend that day. How true is that newspaper report? I'm not going in here right now. I think it is ugly for all of us to seek arguments in a debate in this way, based on newspaper reports, daily news reports that are often timed. I'm also amazed that you don't trust the government, so the state audit, you don't trust the state's attorney's office, I don't think there's anything wrong with us when we don't trust such institutions and institutions and we put emphasis on news reports that in no society at all can be the basis for some quality debate. There were really a lot of words here, a lot of ugly words, a lot of hard words, a poet said that he hung himself here many years ago on Trešnjevci, "Kill me too much word." There were indeed a lot of strong words here that really killed, I admire Minister Zuzul for being a man who endured all there... and for the very end of what I said that I would be brief, when I heard all this what my colleague Loncar said despite what he had received notice, when I heard about those cases and arguments that he made when he compared it to what was imputed to Minister Zuzul I must say my position Minister Zuzul's nun against what was brought here. And in the finale, if someone really had antipathy, I say the quote to Minister Zuzul after this whole debate, in fact, a man gets the impression that he's getting more and more comfortable with that man because he's successful, I say to the man all of it, and maybe someone likes my line, which is more defamation and lies, Mr. Zuzul has become more and more like it somehow. Thank you very much. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27843	Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27844	Mr. Piploic, quoting this alleged poet who hanged himself and who said he killed me too much of a word, I hope he doesn't point to Minister Zuzul to hang himself in the same way. Mr. Minister, please receive these messages with special attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27845	He hanged himself for both of us for information, hung himself by poet Branko Vinkovic, but it was another one of his songs, not the word that killed us, that's the one that hasn't hung himself yet. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27846	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Given that time has moved away, I will indeed be very brief and since Minister Zuzul represents Croatia in the world I will mostly touch myself with a few sentences only of this topic. In fact, as a parliamentary representative and as a member of the parliamentary delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and as a member of the Committee on European Integration, I am very often contacted with our fellow parliamentarians from other European countries. My colleagues and many of you have the same opportunity, and I think I might say some things that you know well, but I think it's important that I underline them tonight. In fact, those European partners who are prone to Croatia, I underline those who are prone to Croatia, they will honestly say that the Gotovina case is not enough to prevent our approach to Europe, but always that, provided that the Croatian Government, the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian judiciary do not make any other wrong move and unexpected move. These include, among other things, those decisions resulting from political affairs and a deviation from democratic standards. And unfortunately for them, we have colleagues and colleagues every day. In the past two, three weeks alone, let's look around and see, there's the Zuzul affair, the affairs in connection with the occupier, the affair with the incomes of independent parliamentary representatives, the affair with the selection of members of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. My colleagues and colleagues in the corruption and crime affair are not coming down from the pages of our daily press. All these affairs definitely do not contribute to Europe's Croatia, do not speak in favour of civil and advanced Croatia. These are the factors that distance our country from Europe and the values that we all swear to. Unfortunately we're just swearing but nothing and very little, I don't know how much sense it makes to continue, I repeat, unfortunately these values are just swearing but nothing or very little we do to eliminate these phenomena. Tonight's debate is just a confirmation of that. Because of everything we've learned over the past 15 days about Imostroy's "MTS" and Karin's Universal Engineering, the political bonton requires the precise behaviour of the minister, the prime minister and the opposition. And that's why I'm surprised at the arguments and the arguments and the complaints at the expense of others. In everything that happened today, I also see a small tape, a small shift, as some members of the ruling coalition today had the strength to express a different attitude than the position of the Croatian government. We all know colleagues and colleagues that it's only time, only time. Ten years ago, many opposed the attitudes that are now mutually supportive. I hope that the moral and political dilemmas that he had today...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27847	My colleagues and fellow MPs please rest in the hall, I'm going to interrupt the session for the sake of dying.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27848	I hope that the moral and political dilemmas we have today will be resolved together and permanently. I'll stop there because I can see that it really doesn't make sense, Mr. President, we're tired, but my message was supposed to be quite different from what the others said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27849	Thank you. Honorable representative of Neven Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27850	... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27851	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac. ... He's giving up. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27852	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry that there's no Mr. Sanader's meeting here today because I'd like to apologize to Mr. Sanader for even asking a question for such an honorable man and for asking if it's possible for them to write that he's the one who denied the tax that they're true. I also can't believe that all those newspaper inscriptions mentioning some Bechtel affair were true. I don't believe that. And especially I can't believe this last affair of conflict of interest because here, there were so many lawyers and everyone said that Mr. Zuzul was not in conflict of interest, there joined Mr. Bajic and many others in the whole play, so here I am sorry that I can't apologize to Mr. Sanader for even asking a question about these three possible things. However, I wouldn't be here today, I wouldn't ask him about this fourth affair, because now I'm sure it's a lie, for this affair, supposedly an affair about money laundering through the NGO of LFK. I also can't believe that Mr. Zuzul lied, it's not safe, because he wouldn't have changed his mind twelve times in four days, I believe that he was sure that the money wasn't paid, that there were no bank statements, I don't think we even saw them. I'm also sure that the contract was void, and I know that they agreed on a contractual termination of the contract and no family ties and no conflict of interest, and there were some referents who wrote all sorts of things, they didn't know what they were supposed to sign up for, so in the end, they didn't even know who was the owner of what, who was the director, but I know that Mr. Zuzul didn't know about it, because many of them here confirmed it. So it was also whether the contract was consummated or not, I know it wasn't, I'm sure. And I also know that the MTS account serviced housing loans, and I'm sure that's because here's what everyone claims, and that's how it's shown. And I also know that Mr. Karin is a successful entrepreneur, because all those who point out that he owes something to the Ministry of Finance, they lie. However, I have a dilemma that I must ask Mr. Zuzul, although I say I am sorry that there is no Mr. Sanader to apologize for having expressed my doubts at all, I believe you will tell him. But I'd ask Mr. Zuzul for some things that are not clear to me at all, and I believe most of our constituencies that we're getting pay depends on whether we're board presidents or not, meaning from about 12 to 18 thousand kuna. So I'd like to ask Mr. Zuzul, let him give us a prescription on how to buy an apartment in America, and I apologize to the house, say house, house in America. I'd beg and I'd like to know what the value is? I didn't. In which way it was bought, the president may do a little bit. In which way it was bought..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27853	What's this about?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27854	They're distracting me. Thank you. I'd also like to know how to send our kids to school in America if that schooling costs $38,000 a year, and for two kids it's $80,000, 76. But you probably need to live there, so that's a little bit more. And also if Mr. Karin, and I believe that, because here it is today proven, if Mr. Karin was paying off the housing loan, so I wonder since it's worth 226 thousand euros, in which way this apartment will now be paid off... How will that apartment be paid off if Mr. Kren no longer has it? [[speaks off, can't be heard]] And now to confirm that I am absolutely certain that Mr. Zuzul is not in conflict of interest. I must quote the principles of division of the law, which is "that officials must act with honor, fair, conscientiously, responsibly and impartially, safeguarding credibility and dignity, entrusted with their duties, and the trust of the citizens". I am convinced from all your discussions that this is so, and I am sure that even that article 6 and) you quoted here about a possible conflict of interest does not stand. Because in no way did he use the position of the officials to influence the decision of the legislative executive or judicial authority to achieve a personal breakthrough or breach of the connected person. Either God doesn't have any privileges right or he's done business in another way or he's got himself or his connected person in some other way. Here I am, again I am sorry that I failed to tell the Prime Minister, but I would still ask you, Mr. Minister, if you could give me the answers to these questions, so you can give us instructions for all how can we achieve a similar Croatian dream?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27855	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative of Jagoda Maja Maritinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27856	Mr. Kapaljevic, we are obviously allowed here in mutual conversations, replicas, etc. However, when children are involved, I would say that it is not worthy of anyone who has children of their own. Because this is the way we're going to ask all the citizens of this country who sent their children away for school, and they're not officials where they got the money? I think it's an unworthy level of conversation and discussion in this high house. Otherwise your pledoies, which were of course ironically intonated, I think they also belong to more than one theatre sphere, rather than the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27857	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27858	Well, I wouldn't agree if I ever mentioned kids. I mentioned the money. Just the money, I mentioned the cost of schooling. And I didn't say anything against the kids, but I appreciate everyone's kids, because I have two kids, and I have a roommate now, because my son lives with me, so I'm sure he wouldn't go to the kids. I was just asking about the possibility of schooling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27859	Honorable representative Ivo Banac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27860	It's late, I'll be very, very short. It is quite clear, Mr. President, that a good part of the members of this House simply does not distinguish a crime from a conflict of interest. The conflict of interest is not when you meet your paws in honey, but when it can happen with your cooperation. For example, it's not bad to judge someone. But it's a bad assessment if it's about your son, if you're a professor. Even if that son is a first-rate student. It's something you just don't understand here. It is not understood in the context of a corrupt society, I fear, where such incidents contribute to the delegation of the system. Mr. Zuzul would do very well if he would consider not only this affair, but all others with whom he was connected to resign, but he obviously will not do so. He treats our debate lightly. He's been laughing all night like this is none of his business. It concerns him, because everything that happens here I repeat the delegating of the system. Our people need to find examples among political leaders, not examples that will in the worst way possible imitate. And that's the problem with what happened in this case in general. And I warn you, if we continue like this, there will be effects that are imminent when the political system is not perceived as legitimate. This means that political struggles will take place outside this House, that they will cross the street, and that would be tragic. So I ask Mr. Zuzul to do what I think every patriotic citizen in these circumstances must do, and that is to resign. And those of us who think he's in a very rude way hurt the institutions of this system of course we're going to vote against him, we're going to vote to take away his mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27861	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27862	Well, Mr. President, Article 206 doesn't say anywhere that the cameraman can speak at the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27863	I'm giving you a warning, Agent Glavas. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative of Luka Bebic for the last five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27864	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Minister. This debate has shown what is obvious and visible in recent months, it has started with Hebrang, then President of the Parliament that the parliament is not working, that it is not democratically run by the Parliament and now it has reached Minister Zuzul. If this keeps up, you other ministers don't think you're gonna get your turn. I believe that this debate has shown and proved that this proposal for a vote of no confidence does not stand, that every debate has reduced, arguments have fallen, and in the end there has been a pleading, a pleading to, like, whether it is morally politicalally-like. That is, the only moral political resemblance remains and you who are a little older than me know what it means, I have experienced such disqualifications in my life as morally politically inadequate and as such excluded from the Union of Communists of Croatia, long ago. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Croatian Democratic Community will refuse and will not vote for this proposal. And I also believe that other MPs will see that this is all very weak and unargumented and those who are calling for moral political responsibility could have done so for three, four years so they are not and are therefore unconvinced and therefore this House I am confident will not accept their proposal for a vote of no confidence to Minister Zuzul. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27865	Thank you very much. I'm asking the MPs to tell me what's so funny because I'm not, obviously there's some conspiracy of laughter that something obviously was very funny that we didn't see here. But okay, let's keep it a secret. We've finished discussing clubs and MPs. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Minister may give a speech before the proposal's final speech. Minister Zuzul, would you like to give a speech? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27866	I thank Mr. President, I thank you all for those who have shown faith and trust in me, of course I am convinced and once again I claim that you were right and you are right there is no one I cannot look into because there is nothing wrong with what I have done. But, of course, there are questions and there is a right to questions, whether they seem smart or stupid, reasonable or not. Let me say right now, I respect this High House, I've proven it patiently by staying all debates regardless of whether I like them or not. It is true that in one case, I have responded with laughter, and what else I have left, I have been told and that is, of course, true and so that under parliamentary immunity, I can speak to whoever I want. And in one such case, it was such a speech that I couldn't react but laughed. If it was considered an insult to this House, I apologize because I didn't care in any way. If it was understood as my comment on what the MP was saying then it was correctly understood. Mr. Kapraljevic has asked a whole series of questions, I can't teach him a lot of what he asked. But there are some things I can do. It's easy to know how you can study outside, you just have to ask around. There's also a scholarship when we mention kids, I know hundreds of them who have scholarships and I helped them myself and thank God they have kids who can study outside and get scholarships. Mr. Kapraljevic if he wanted to know something then he might know how I bought the house because he said earlier that he owns property cards, he owns mine, and let the look at it exactly how I bought a house in Washington but of course it's too much to ask because it would require that he learn something. But when he said what he didn't believe, let me say that I don't believe one thing about him. I really don't believe that Mr. Kapraljević waved any payments or saw any payments because he is for God's sake a parliamentary representative. And the council representative knows that the unauthorized possession of bank notes or similar materials is a criminal offense. Well, he'd probably turn himself in or ask to be questioned whether it's true or not. It is also difficult to believe that gentlemen and Madam Representatives are honoring me for having addressed myself to the legal and legitimate institutions of the rule of law. You cannot object to me for not speaking to you, no matter what it is called the Commission for conflict of interest. First, there was no conflict of interest. And secondly, that there is this committee that I must honestly tell you after tonight's debate I didn't realize whether it exists or not. Here I am now volunteering to call when it is established, let it begin immediately in the case, it will determine exactly the same because there is nothing else to determine. Because they're facts. And I urge you once again to look at the facts, to conclude on the basis of facts. Because there's what's really old truth. When enough times a lie repeats itself, then it becomes true. And when enough charges are made, he becomes guilty. The democracy of the ladies and gentlemen conducts the procedure and totalitarianism implements... It is the right of Parliament and the duty and the obligation to carry out such actions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In democratic societies, doubt is both a normal and a legitimate thing. As long as this procedure goes on, we don't think we're unique in the world in several national parliaments, you have similar procedures. You have a similar procedure in the United Nations, you now have a renewed procedure in the European Council regarding the European Commission. You're not right about those who think it's insulting the democratic image of the state. Just the other way around. It shows that democracy is mature in the country. What is insulting is the conclusion based on insinuations rather than on facts. Because in all these procedures that exist outside, there are two rules. Until it's proven someone guilty is innocent, and if proven guilty, he's bound to leave. I've taken a step further, I've asked the state's attorney's office to examine if I'm guilty. Not just to leave his post. If I'm guilty, I'd probably end up in jail. However, in the way this debate was being held, I think it was becoming one thing clear. It wasn't about any legal guilt, but it wasn't about any conflict of interest. There can be no conflict of interest where there is no interest. I once again note there was no transfer of money that would end up in the private pocket of me, my wife or anyone from my family. And when it came to the fact that there was no fact for that, then we began to receive lessons from democracy or morals. I agree, and what's legal right doesn't have to be moral. But morals are not defined by papers. It must not be defined by the Rules of Procedure, and God has preserved us from going to establish a Committee on Miracles and Morals. That's still, you'll agree in other times. And the debates of some were really similar to other times, as it was well said, when first it was found that someone was morally responsible, and then it would prove that he was guilty before the law. I am firmly convinced that no one here wants and regrets such times. The same was said in the court of the public. It is known how, when and where in public, the public works in democracy. Nothing like that, let's be realistic here. All that there's someone I don't know exactly how much data they want me or don't want me. Well, that doesn't mean anything, gentlemen. There are those here who have entered with 5% of the Parliament and are equal to those who have entered with no idea how much. Does that mean that 95% is against them? I don't know. The public in democracy has, not only the strongest and strongest right to vote, which is at the time of the election. And the public will give their voice. Whether it's me and my stranger or you or it's gonna be the time they're gonna show you. If we start to interpret the public in the way it's interpreted, then we've changed democracy. Then democracy is not what is voted in the elections, then democracy is what I said as some seem to still think or what someone else wrote. That's how we end up in totalitarianism again, not democracy. There have been a lot of cases that I could explain right now, but I don't know how much that makes sense right now. I have an answer to a lot of what's been said. I know it won't change your attitudes, and that's why I won't even bring them up. If there's a future chance I'm ready. Let me say, there's none of you on either side that I can't look into. There isn't one of you who can tell me that I've done my job unfairly, unprofessionally, and there's no one who can just prove to me that I've gotten rich or exploited in the wrong way. Because that's not true, gentlemen dear. There's a way I'd resign. The first way is for the prime minister in whose government himself to show a minimum of confidence in me. Like I believe in him, I don't trust him. I'm convinced he believes in me. If he didn't believe my survival in such a government, he wouldn't have made sense. I have shown in my life that in the different, different stages of life and the different spheres I have dealt with there was one thing that was always true, and that was that I was successful. I could do it again. And I wouldn't cry for any function. You've had a chance to speak, I think, but of course you can throw. Since the Prime Minister and the Government, my colleagues who have come here tonight have confirmed that they have a clean, firm confidence in me and them, I, of course, unless I vote differently, am proud to remain part of that team. I thank my party colleagues not only because they supported me but because they showed the firmness of the party. And to you others, you really don't need to worry about our party or how the public reacts to it. There's something disturbing about what Mr. Secretary was saying. There's something worrying. Unless we make decisions based on facts, but based on the impressions created. I'm going back, gentlemen, to that again. It's not a legal state, it's not a democracy. That's something else. I invite you all to vote on your own conscience, and I will respect every decision of this high house. Thank you. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27867	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27868	In order to clarify the dilemma about the property cards because you expressed doubts that I did not want to publish them, first and foremost on the commission we never made a decision on how to publish the property cards. And I'd very much like to have made that decision all the cards of all the officials and yours and mine and of all the others would be published. And then I'd ask a more specific question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27869	Unfortunately, it wasn't even about correcting an incorrect quote. And now I would like to ask the promoter, the Honorable Vice-President Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27870	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. There's a lot of things being said in the debate tonight, but most of all, it's most surprising what was said about turning the assembly into a courtroom. What is the purpose of this House? We were working tonight and we should have done one job which is one of the fundamental affairs of each Parliament and the fundamental tasks of each Parliament, which is either trust or mistrust to the government or trust or mistrust of any of its ministers. It's the task of Parliament. Parliament must discuss this, and it is obvious that this debate is evidence that a very strong reasonable doubt has arisen that Minister Zuzul has no confidence in this Parliament and therefore this debate has been launched. There is no debate or need to be discussed here, regardless of course people speak freely of what they want, but there is no need to discuss and draw conclusions on the basis of newspaper articles although they sometimes point to the path to which they should be explored. It was clearly seen here and nothing in this entire debate was disproved, just the opposite that Minister Zuzul made contradictory statements about his business, that in these contradictory statements he denied his own statements from the previous day, and that of course it does not raise doubts but shows that there is no credibility. And nothing that's been said here has been denied. We also received a report from the State's Attorney's Office, which is based on insight into the facts available within a week. Therefore, there are still all the reasonable doubts set out in the proposal for a vote of no confidence. The fact that the presentation in this House was more about the presentation of the minister, the examples of an unknown man who spoke on television, not about the allegations that were brought here at the outset or which were put forward in the motion for a vote of no confidence, speaks enough about the fact that there are no arguments against what was put forward in the proposal. Therefore, I think that this debate, and especially here, the steps have shown that nothing has been denied by the government, which is the State Attorney's report and the State Audit report, seems to me now to be an additional question in the business case of Minister Zuzula, especially when it is seen that this company is also the only company in the whole country, as has been confirmed by the tax administration that has been favoured in this way. So, of course, there will be something I absolutely agree with. Which I will absolutely agree with Minister Zuzul. Vote by your conscience and how you will vote, you will also influence this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27871	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27872	No matter what it seems to be in vain to speak in this House, it is necessary to correct an incorrect assumption. My colleague Pusic, quite the opposite of your alleged false suspicion, based on the State's Attorney's Office and the State Audit report, I will read only the following. That, in the first instance, all available data, the State Attorney's Office has found that there is no basis for any suspicion of any criminal offence, nor has it established the existence of legality that would require the conduct of the civil management department of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. Also, it's completely incorrect, we've already been on several occasions, but obviously you haven't listened to the debate that this isn't a precedent regarding the write-off of debts. We achieved only on Dion and 86 million kuna, so on the Dalmatian, so I told you very clearly about the write-offs of debt to various societies that were owned by DAB, for example, so the same state institution, don't reiterate the truths, which are not really based on facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27873	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the vote. Honorable representative on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27874	On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, and pursuant to Article 238a, paragraph 6. I suggest that the Rules of Procedure be voted by hand-lifting.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27875	SDP club respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27876	On behalf of the Klub SDP, on the basis of the article, I think we are looking for a single vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27877	Okay. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27878	The IDS Club suggests we vote with the key, because, no, not gentlemen, so we're getting a printout of all the MPs who are, uh, abstentioned, against it anyway. So whether we vote individually, by calling or voting with a key, technology is the same. And we suggest a key. Because we'll see who voted for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27879	A colleague of Cain, a colleague of Cain's. According to the Rules of Procedure, if a vote is requested or named, when requested by a representative club or by a proposer of an act, as requested by the SDP Representatives Club, Article 229(3). The Rules of Procedure say that a name vote shall be held when requested by a representative club or by an act promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27880	I know that, but no one can hide how anyone voted...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27881	Oh, wait a minute, wait a minute. But also, according to Article 238a. At the request of the representatives of the club, a vote will be held by hand. So here we now have two competitive proposals, two competitive proposals. Comrade Vujic, don't talk to me, no, no, no. Listen to what I said. So we have two competitive proposals. At the same time, the Rules of Procedure say in two articles, one is that, at the request of the club's representatives, a vote will be held by hand, and the other says that at the request of the club's representatives or promoters, they will also hold a name vote. I'll put you on the vote on how we vote. Whether or not we will vote, because I cannot decide, when there are two equal proposals from the Rules of Procedure, how to vote. I will therefore put the first vote on the proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives, a proposal by the HDZ Representatives Club to hold the vote by raising hands. You can't throw it away, colleague Vujic. I've warned you many times already, you can't. You have on behalf of your club the word again. Representative Opačić, president or vice president of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27882	On behalf of the SDP Club, please take a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27883	Ten-minute stop? When the club asks for a 10-minute break, then the club needs to explain it. It reads in the Rules of Procedure, at the reasoned request of the club's representative, the president of the parliament will approve a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27884	Here, I'll explain it very soon. We need a break to consult on how to vote and so on about all of this that you have now produced in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27885	Okay. Okay. The president of the HDZ Club, Mr. Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27886	I don't think the reason for the break is justified. So they are not justified because there is a way to vote in the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure. Three ways and I ask the Parliament to decide how we will vote, not to ask for a break in half 1 on how we vote, and everything is written in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27887	And when the Rules of Procedure says that, at the request of the club's representative, a reasoned request will be given a break, I will approve that break. Ten minutes. My colleague Arlović, he asked for your club break, I give it right away. What do you want now? ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, colleague Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27888	Mr. President, I think you're interpreting the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27889	Which article I hurt, please state.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27890	Article 238a, because you said that, at the request of the representative of the club, a vote will be held by raising your hand, which is true, but you did not say that it applies only when an electronic vote is applied before and if it does not come in the electronic vote, because that Article 238a refers to an electronic vote and if it happens in that segment there is no agreement then it can be asked for a vote by raising your hand, otherwise Article 229a regulates how it is voted in the Croatian Parliament, and I ask you to respect the decision of the SDP Club and the Proposer to vote by name on this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27891	You probably missed the last paragraph of Article 238a in the heat of controversy, which states that the electronic vote cannot be held in the name vote, and I quote it previously as you quoted it as saying "at the request of the representative of the club of representatives will be held by a vote by raising your hand", and the article... Yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah. And Article 229(2) says "the public vote is carried out by lifting hands, by name or by electronic vote", and paragraph 3 of the same article says "that the name vote is carried out when requested by the club of representatives or by the proposer of the act". When the Rules of Procedure was drawn up, it was worth seeing, not a competitive, exclusive provision, to introduce it into the Rules of Procedure. I'll give you a 10-minute break now, and we'll proceed afterwards. 37, 47. I'm asking the representative of the SDP Club to take his word. The Honorable representative of the club Mr. Ivica Racan here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27893	Mr. President, I'm sorry I have to talk about technical matters on behalf of the club. We honestly don't understand why this show of strength. In our opinion, the requirement for individual voting abolishes other requirements. You can interpret how you want the Rules of Procedure by training strictness, for the first time in the history of the Parliament, as I have heard in this way, the request for individual voting is lifted. I don't understand that act of yours, I hope he's not the introduction to any other suspensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27894	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Luka Bebic on behalf of the HDZ Club. The president of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27895	I have nothing to add except to vote on how we vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27896	Gentlemen, there is no reduction at all, I have a request from a club to vote by raising your hand by calling for a certain provision of the Rules of Procedure. I have a request from another club to apply the Institute of Namely Voting. I can't arbitration, they'll arbitration the Parliament. The council will arbitration. Here you go, buddy Tomci.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27897	Mr. President, I'm asking that we speak individually on behalf of the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27898	And that's not going to work, because it's about individual voting because it's not going to vote on whether it's going to vote individually and by individual vote. We messed up. Messed things up. Gentlemen, we'll start something later tomorrow so we can finish something early today. Tomorrow's Saturday, yeah. Otherwise I have pleasant news for all of us, we will also have a meeting of the Parliament on some days that are unusual we have received a series today of EU laws so that we will do just as other European parliaments have been doing when they agreed to European legislation at a rapid pace. Comrade Tomcic, you want us to declare ourselves individually whether we will vote by name or if we will vote to do this... My colleague Arlović, here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27899	Mr. President, we couldn't vote on any of the other proposals. I remind you that this issue has been resolved by the Rules of Procedure, so we must stick to the Rules of Procedure here. The Rules of Procedure explicitly states in Article 229(3) of the title vote shall be made by an imperial norm when requested by a representative club or by an act promoter. Please respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27900	That's what you've already said. That's where we differ in interpretation between you and me. Let's go nice, first we'll declare ourselves by name whether we vote and how we vote. Here you go, Mr. Baby.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27901	I suggest we vote on the way we vote by raising our hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-25-0.u27902	So we have two competitive proposals again. So with your permission to shorten this whole story I will now put to the vote on how we vote, colleague Cain, you with the key are boring already, leave the key, third time I already explain to you when the demands for a name or individual or raising your hand are that there is no electronic vote. He doesn't have a colleague, Cain, he doesn't have one. So, please, who is of the MPs and advocates to vote on the motion for mistrust to a member of the government, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Miomir Zuzul, by raising his hand? Thank you very much. Put your hands down. Who is in favour of voting by name, according to the SDP Representatives' Club proposal? Who's in favour of voting by name? Well, it's very logical to give now that I've put to the vote on the proposal to vote by raising my hand that they voted, so now I ask who's against it. Well, then we'll go against it. Then who's against voting hand-to-hand? Yeah, you counted it. Give us a good score. Who was it to vote for by raising your hand? 70 votes to vote by hand and 60 were against it. Very cleverly, I thank Representative Kramaric, very cleverly. We'll vote hand-to-hand. I am voting on a proposal for a non-confidential statement to Foreign Minister Miomir Zuzul. Who's up for this proposal? I find that MPs of opposition parties, except HSP representatives, have left the assembly and refused to vote. What's the quorum now? Yes, 79 MPs are in the hall, so there's a quorum. Who is it that, who is I am voting on the motion to show no confidence to a member of the government and Foreign Minister Miomir Zuzul Who's in favour of this proposal? [[There's no 79 people here, there's no 79.]] Okay. [[President, there are no 79 people. We're looking for a recount. Yeah. Let it be counted again. Well, there isn't, it can't be 79. You don't need to make a farce, I mean, it can't be 79.]] On request, at the request of the MPs will be counted, please count. 78 MPs. ... It's William Herman. It's 78. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, now I'm putting it to the vote. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Who's up for a vote of no confidence? ... It's been counted twice. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Who's to vote for mistrust? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No one. I find that he has been rejected for distrusting a member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Foreign Minister Miomir Zuzul. I interrupt the session, resume tomorrow at 10:30. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing with a session on the agenda; - The final draft law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, second reading, P.Z. No. 180; club representative of HSS, respected representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go.
