ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13002	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I ask you to take note of the second part of our question, or proposal, when we have asked you to ensure that there is a Prime Minister present here at the Assembly when we discuss that item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13003	I'll try to secure it. This is a united debate under these two draft laws. On behalf of the clubs for 20 minutes. Clubs can distribute among themselves to speak more advocates on this subject. I'd like the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Vesna Skara Ozbolt, to explain the additional draft law amending and supplementing Penal Code No. 88. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13004	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The reform of the judiciary is a major task and one of the government's main tasks, in order for the judiciary to achieve its full independence and efficiency. The creation of a legislative framework and the strengthening of institutions to combat oranized crime, corruption, war crimes, hibernetical crime, terrorism, are the priorities of these governments. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the Penal Code in order to achieve an adequate legal framework for the fight against criminal pressures against international standards. Although the draft law amending and supplementing the criminal law in the course of the assessment of the situation and the description of the basic questions to be regulated by this law is very extensively and detailing all the decisive facts that justify and make this change of the Croatian criminal law necessary, please allow me to point out in particular some of these facts and to add to them some of which may be of interest to discuss these changes in this high home. From the entry into force of the criminal law and the beginning of its application on 1st January 98th to the proposal of these amendments, more than 6 years have passed. The new Croatian criminal law is designed by law until then and has been amended three times. The third and most abundant changes were those in December 14, 2000, which came into effect with the shortest possible vaccio legis 8 days after the publication in the National Journal. After that, four major changes were proposed, contained in the law on amendments and amendments to the criminal law, which took effect on 15 July 2003, which should apply from 1 December 2003. By decision of the Constitutional Court of 27 November 2003, the law was repealed and should therefore be considered as not even adopted. Keeping in mind that the material criminal right, which is largely contained in the criminal law, is only one of the instruments for countering behaviours that are dangerous to the fundamental freedoms and rights of citizens, and other constitutional values. And that any change to that part of the legal system of each and every one of our countries must be well thought out and covered by the political era, the Government believes that it is developmental and justified to approach Croatian criminal rights in two stages. This conclusion is based on an analysis of the data on the crime and its phenomellologies, taking into account the principles of rule of law, which are both on the basis of and on the restriction of criminal legal coercion, but also on the effect of protecting all rights and social values guaranteed and protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and international law against all of them indulging behaviours. It is these two stages that have also been justified in view of a number of issues discussed in both the profession and the public, and here in the Croatian Parliament last year, over the proposed law on amending the criminal law. In the first phase of the first phase, which is the content of the bill we are currently discussing should be limited to those changes that are necessary and urgent and which do not require a thorough scientific scientific scientific practical and criminal political analysis and judgment from their justification. In the second phase, which follows and continues immediately behind this first phase, according to the Government programme, which highlighted the determination of ensuring the necessary legal conditions for sanctioning crime, and their representatives and defining economic and organised crime by establishing responsibility at all levels of assistance will be analysed by all earlier and new theoretical and practical political proposals and reasons for changing criminal law, and will decide which of them is, and why should be proposed in the Croatian Assembly. This applies, for example, to the complex and interconnected normative structure of tvz. Mr. Ospodarskog crime, the complexity of the issue of general and linear tightening of repression, and the introduction of a life sentence. Prolonging the deadlines of an age of eprisil collection of fines, and others. Which is closely related to the relationship between the existing legal and judicial policies of punishment. This is a particularly important issue of punishment policy, namely how and to what extent the legal repressive system so far is applied in court practice and how relations between the frightening and generally preventive effects of the penalties prescribed, and the particularly preventive effects of the applicable criminal sanctions in our criminal justice system are. It is already being organised and will be known by the end of this year. The changes that are now being proposed are the largest part of the decision to comply with our criminal law, with international commitments, and so on. For international integration residents, the United Nations, the Council of Europe and the European Union. And those relating to criminal law and criminal justice. The criminal law of the modern state is, despite intense international integration processes and beyond all doubt, a legislative act exclusively of state sovereignty. It decides which personal freedoms and rights of man and other rights and social values will be guaranteed and protected by the constitution of each Member State of the international community, that State shall protect itself precisely by prescribing criminal offences and which sanctions, therefore, which must be applied by the judicial authority to their perpetrators. However, in addition to the constitutional basis, both for the regulation and application of criminal legal repression in the modern concept of sovereignty and international law is considered a legitimate reason and a basis for the processing of the content of each national criminal law. Thus, whoever is prescribed in Article 1 of our criminal law, and this is why the increasingly recent changes in the sources of international law, which our country is bound by a legal ratification act, to their application, in domestic law not only make up the most of the content of the law that is proposed but are also one of the main reasons for these extraordinary and additions to our criminal law. In the light of the reasons, the applicant clearly stated and quoted each of these samples for each change based on sources of international law and made it possible to compare it with the proposed change. This sought to avoid the formulations that are totally undefinedly calling for international standards of demand for the international community and the like. It could be considered that the need for media freedom and with this both the binding and normative content of criminal offences against honor and respect when the perpetrators of these acts are journalists also concerns the relationship between national criminal law sovereignty and certain international standards to either the proposals or the objections of international organisations to these content. The government considered Croatia's strategic interests to justify the judgment of the current solutions and by establishing a reasonable and fair balance between media freedoms and justifiable criminal protection, honor and reputation for each person's proposal to redecorate some provisions on liability for crimes against honor and reputation and the crime of libel. The current incriminations of criminal offences and new crimes such as those prescribed have been redecorated. The definition of a criminal organization, the crime against humanity, the command responsibility, the discovery of the identity of a protected witness, the recruitment of mercenaries, the incrimination of obstruction of justice, the prevention of evidence, here's cybercrime, a very current topic, the abuse of rights, the public exposure of something that needs to be used for private purposes. Trade in human beings and slavery, giving, or taking bribes in economic business, banning the cloning of a human being, preparing a crime against the values of protected international law, and joining a group to commit a crime of terrorism, that is, international terrorism. The incrimination against hate speech was extended in Article 174(3) of the criminal act of racial and other discrimination in such a way that this incrimination now contains a ban on any form of discrimination by entering into the feature of the general clause or other characteristics on the basis of, for example. sexual orientations, etc. In accordance with the additional protocol under the Convention on Cybercrime, on the criminalisation of acts of racism and xenophobia committed through computer systems, the new paragraph 4 shall be incriminated through the computer system or otherwise. Any material that denies significantly reduces, approves, or justifys the crime of genocide or crimes against humanity. Such a proposed criminal act is now entirely sufficient to cover all forms of discrimination or so on. hate speech. In relation to economic crimes, it was necessary to prescribe new corruption offences in order to prevent corruption in the private sector by fulfilling the obligations undertaken by international conventions, in particular the criminal legal convention on corruption. In order to provide criminal protection to endangered witnesses who are willing to testify against organised crime, corruption, war crimes and other serious crimes, it was necessary to prescribe a new criminal offence, reveal the identity of a protected witness who sanctioned any action taken to reveal the identity of witnesses. And in this way, the government provides assumptions for more effective prosecution of organised crime, corruption and war crimes. In the context of the implementation of the UN Convention on Transnational Organized Crime, the Proposer has changed the sentence in the criminal offence of an agreement to commit the crime referred to in Article 332 and is increasing the sanctions in that criminal offence as well as in the criminal offence of the association for the conduct of the offences referred to in Article 333 for their special execution of these offences. The new offence of illegal construction incriminates any construction without a building permit or against regulations, or despite other decisions by competent national authorities, given that the illegal construction is particularly illegal in protected areas in such a way as to threaten the devastations of those areas, and the protection of those values cannot be ensured through administrative or criminal proceedings. And the new crime is an illegal exploitation of mining wealth that incriminates irregularly or contrary to the decisions of the state bodies exploiting the mine treasure. Here is an effort to appreciate the time in this House of Commons and to avoid repeating what is mentioned for the amendments and those other relatively broadly stated in the opening text of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, and for every proposed article of this law, let me, however, just one more note. The Government of the Republic of Croatia considers opposing all forms of crime, especially those directly or indirectly related to terrorism, transnational organised crime, corruption, illicit production and drug trafficking, all forms of violence and crimes in economic activity as one of its main priorities. In doing so, she is deeply convinced that more effective opposition to these and other forms of crime is achieved by systematic and mutually agreed legal interventions not only in the content of material criminal law but also in criminal, criminal and other laws relating to the overall action of criminal justice by the police, the state's attorney with the USKOK segments, the judicial authorities until criminal and criminal sanctions are imposed primarily on fines and prison sentences. But these legal interventions are only part of the overall strategy of strengthening the rule of law and curbing crime. The remaining but more important part relates to the scientific and professional analysis of the overall social individual causes of all types of criminal behaviour, but also to the efforts to remove interference and to achieve better conditions for the rapid and effective application of existing and applied legal content. That's what I personally consider a reform of the judiciary that I stand for without delay. The bill is therefore not only the first phase of the change in existing criminal law, but it should also be seen as part of this reform in the realisation that will soon follow the other legal proposals that will be your judgment. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13005	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Just a few notices ago about the committee's work. Vice-President of the Committee on Economy, Ms. Dragica Zgrebec has scheduled a meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction instead of at 2:00 p.m. at the House of Representatives. So the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction at 13 o'clock in the House of Representatives. Tourism Committee in Hall 84 at 13:30. And it wasn't scheduled in Hall 133, so in Hall 84 at 13.30 a.m., the Tourism Committee. Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee at 1300 hours in Hall 133/I. The Legislative Committee at the Centre Hall at 1200 hours. The Legislative Committee at the Centre Hall at 1200 hours. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System at the Small Council at 12:30 p.m. The Committee on the Constitution at the Small Hall at 12:30. The Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government instead of 13.30 at 17.00 in Hall 133/I. And the Justice Committee, 13:30 at the Centre Hall. I would like the honourable representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, to explain the bill on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13006	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Ministers with fellow Members, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club proposes to amend and supplement the Penal Code completely on the trail of those amendments and additions proposed by the earlier government and which amendments and additions to the Penal Code were passed during the former coalition government, the authorities. These amendments and additions were the crown of the normative part of the criminal reform, which also consisted of reminding ourselves, because they are exactly as they are conceived and why we think we are just insisting on these comprehensive changes because they are just being added to the legislation we passed during the former authorities, the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. What was one newspaper in our Penal Code where the criminal responsibility of legal persons was prescribed, considering, of course, also on this European and global trail that criminal offences should also be punished by legal persons, not just for some violation of economic and financial discipline, prescribing criminal liability. If we had had this before, we would have been more effective in detecting, processing and punishing the crimes committed during the conversion and privatisation. Because often, as the theory used to say, responsible people used to hide behind a legal person like a straw man. Of course, we should also be working on the implementation of this law now, which is in any case not an easy task, given whether it is one completely, one new institute, one new way of thinking in our criminal law. It is also up to date, this proposal to amend and supplement the SDP Club Penal Code is also bound by the law passed during the former government and the Final Proposal for Law on the application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international, war and humanitarian law, here, which everyone already calls the War Crimes Court. Namely, it is an extremely important law which, not only has the Republic of Croatia ratified the Statute of the International Criminal Court and which took effect on 1 July 2002, also fulfilled its obligations as a signatories country of the Statute. But first of all, it was also in Croatia's interest that this Law which contains provisions providing for a more quality, more effective prosecution and trial and sanctioning of war crimes offenders. And in this way Croatia has good prospects which, behold, are being achieved but also with not only this good normative but one active approach as it is being negotiated with international institutions, that those accused before the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague can, however, experience the national legislation, the national judiciary under national law, which is always a certain benefit and in any case better for each defendant, i.e. the defendant. So, I would also like to mention because it is also important that these changes also concern this SDP Law Proposal. Because we brought in during the former government and the Law of Compassion, which was also on this trail of the efficiency of the criminal justice system, to remove that part that had unnecessarily burdened our courts in the pardon process so far. And that the good part, that is to be transferred to the executive power itself, in particular to the Ministry of Justice, which will be prepared by that large part and technical matter. However, in any case, the transparency of the pardon procedure itself is also contributed, but the courts are also disbursed so that they can deal with the primary task of processing and punishing perpetrators of criminal offences. And it's also noted, because it also concerns these changes. It is noteworthy that during the former government, the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime was also passed, and Croatia only thus showed that it was ready to be able, and certainly in that sense, as much as those institutions will be strengthened every day will be more mature and able to deal with this most difficult form of crime. So these were all measures in this normative, but not only normatives that resulted in one increased efficiency of our criminal legislation, which, in the course of the 1990s, had been burned by a large social criticism that the criminal justice system was ineffective, that it was exhausted in petty extravagant penalties and that it was generally unable to catch up with the right type of crime. Let me just point out that the successes were such that for the past year, criminal trials, or criminal courts, increased their impact by 30%, that the state's attorney's office is no longer behind. Of course, it should not be said that all the problems have been addressed. However, I think that this removes the most pressing problems, but that in any case it is also necessary to strengthen the severity of the criminal trial, especially in the process of detecting serious crimes. In order to do so, a further reform of the Criminal Procedure Act should be made. Here, it seems to me he's somehow dead, no more public speaking of this further reform of the Criminal Procedure Act. As you know, in the course of the former government, it is quite a change of law in the sense that many difficulties are removed, primarily those which have allowed many participants, especially the defendants, but also other participants in the process to delay the proceedings. So on that trail one step further should be made. I think that the government will continue with this trail if it really wants to continue a better efficiency, that is, that is, which we are and can argue that it has also begun in the process of detecting and processing serious crimes, and that is only possible if the police force is placed under the jurisdiction of the state's attorney's office in that part of the regular force that is just taking part in the process of detecting the perpetrators of the crimes in providing clues. Because we still have paralysm, or parallel power in detecting and processing, that is to say, the initiating of a criminal offence at all. And that’s what often and publicly creates a confusing picture that ultimately and later is responsible for some possible failure of a procedure. In this way, it seems to me, if this reform continues, that it will be more transparent, and then more responsible, and in any case more efficient. I don't think a single government that is safe within itself is afraid of the judicial branch of power, especially in that part, because let's not forget that the state's attorney's office, an independent and independent judicial body, gives such powers. After all, many countries have already set out in that direction, and we are already a little late. In any case, it is necessary to speed up the work to amend the Criminal Procedure Act. I would like now, here, to specifically cross over and to propose amendments to the SDP Penal Code. It is not possible to just talk about this proposal, and not to refer to the Government's proposal because the Government's proposal is somewhat a subset of this large gathering, and we have no significant objection in this section. There may be a little less punishment proposed by the government, but in any case we welcome these changes that were also needed, but that's not enough. I'd say it's essentially two different concepts. In fact, two completely different criminal political views on this issue. At all, the problem of the place and the roles of criminal law in society in general as an instrument of fighting crime. In fact, we at the SDP Club hold that, for criminal law, those negative social behaviours, social relations, which are so dangerous that society should react to them in such a way, i.e. with the most severe sanctions of a single order at its disposal, are so dangerous. So we come from this concept of pronounced social harm, resulting from the basic conditions of living together in the community. Unlike that concept that seems to me to be going on since 97, and in this sense criticism goes on, not in what has been done and proposed by the government, I repeat once again that there is no delusion, we welcome it, but why not go with radical changes, or more comprehensive ones that are purely complementary and those laws that we have already passed. In fact, as is stated in the rest of the section, so what the Government does not propose to amend, and the SDP Club proposes to amend in its proposal, it is to change such an untapped concept so far that criminal law can be gained at prestige and effectiveness. In order to end up a justified criticism both professional and general public that the criminal justice system is exhausted in fines, that it has won at large, that it has lost because of this effect, that the army of petty random delinquents is essentially treated equally as a real professional delinquent. Because in such conditions, therefore, when even a more remarkable social behavior becomes a criminal offense, it is logical that a lesser punishment is provided for it, so it is even more logical that courts tend to minimum, so they impose mild terms or fines, or even a special minimum according to general rules, and then the public gets the impression that there's a criminal court and there's no such thing as a terrible thing, something charming. And that way, and that's the most dangerous thing to do when a criminal law occurs, or criminal justice, because it then melts its blade, it loses the differentiation of a criminal trial, and the expansion at the end of a criminal trial is not in one democratic style of a country that wants to become democratic as much as possible. However, the democratic and humanitarian profile of criminal law must not lead to a deterioration of its protective function. Democracy and the liberalisation of criminal law do not mean mildness to crime. Therefore, the criminal right by itself to be, by its most difficult threat to sanctions which a legal order has at its disposal, should essentially contribute to strengthening the social and legal awareness of citizens, their proper social ethical evaluation, to making their contribution to the formation and consolidation of those values, and that is only possible if it is perceived in this way. So obviously, it's precisely because of the existing criticism, if there's any openness to the public, and that's exactly what I've been saying before that the existing Penal Code in which it hasn't changed so far has failed. On the contrary. Most citizens have sought the strongest protection of these values that have become part of the social consciousness at all, and that is, above all, except for life and the body, the right to security. It has become one of the general values that is essentially in the modern world in modern society and most endangered. This proposal by the SDP Club seeks to eliminate the inaccuracies, indetermination and non-compliance of certain institutes and with the fundamental principles of the Constitution and international law. Because we'll see later in a more detailed analysis and comparison that the government didn't go with all the adjustments necessary, at least in the opinion of the SDP Club. What is most important and what is changed according to the SDP Club's proposal in the general section is the introduction of a penalty proposal to introduce life imprisonment. The punishment of a long-term prison. Our public has already declared that. And over 80, nearly 90% of our citizens believe that there are situations where a life sentence is shown to be just and just. After all, one rational society always thinks, because it is always one social and cultural size and criminal act, but also a certain sanction. Which, at a certain point at a certain stage of the period in specific social conditions of life and development, needs to be discussed here on such a penalty, metaphysicalally and irrationally, will not bring fruit. So as long as there is, and this is what our public knows, and this criminal law must have hearing and sensibility exactly what they think and what citizens expect. So they know situations where society has the right to defend itself against such dangerous perpetrators who kill, who are hired killers, who so little appreciate their lives, to say that they kill like they're doing the most harmless work. and the public was sensitized to this extent that certain associations of citizens who were families whose members were the victims of such a kind of mindless part were formed, and victims of innocents who did not contribute to what had happened to them, that is, apart from being alive and being on the road, or even the perpetrator came to them. So such a one-time and where you're threatened to repeat the same... So we also had in our recent judicial practice exactly where the maximum sentence of prison was imposed, the perpetrator released and repeated the work, but not by chance, but by the work he announced, which he spoke in the courtroom, which he spoke in a penitentiary institution. And it's being raised here, this is a very serious thing, and the question is, does society have the right to defend itself against such perpetrators? Also, one big news in this proposal, and something that proves to be just and just, is the extension of time-consuming deadlines. The question has been raised, is there really some kind of dispute, whether the reverse action and change of law on the age of persecution even makes sense, or whether it is constitutional? However, the SDP club has been calling for a resolution of Croatia's Supreme Court since 1983, which has undoubtedly solved the problem. And she said that there is a possibility and allowed to extend the general deadlines in those things where there is no statute of limitations. Why? That's why, but not where it's already aged. And I don't think there should be any dispute about that. Of course, any perpetrator of a crime has the right to ask the social community to launch as soon as possible, or that he knows if he will receive the punishment. However, he should not also calculate, this is what happens to us, he should calculate and wait, and in general, since 97, 98, the maximums of almost all criminal acts have been reduced linearly, and then with these mild penalties gone abroad, they are still posted via the media with us, mocking all of us and waiting for them to expire, that is to say, that there is an absolute outdated execution of prison sentences. In addition to such facts, we cannot deafen ourselves and make deaf, dumb, and blind. This is the opportunity, therefore, to react in such a way. In the general section, it is also a significant change in the definition of a criminal organisation, immediately to point out that the government also reacts in a certain way and better incriminates or better defines a criminal organisation. However, there is no reason to lose what our proposal contains. It is precisely that a criminal organization, because such an organization, has joined more persons to commit crimes but not only, to gain material benefit but it is not enough but also to master or attempt to influence economic and political life. It's a real one, and it would be a comprehensive definition of a criminal organization. And what I mean is a significant newspaper and what the SDP Club suggests is that, in a particular part of drug abuse, it is released as a criminal part of drug possession. Why? First of all, because a law on the prevention of drug abuse and the Law on Infractions, which is one central, normate, is a central normative act concerning this drug problem, about cultivation, about the sale, storage, storage, but also deals with the issue of addicts, their protection, but also with repression. This simply shows that this is not acceptable behavior but seeks to react precisely to such perpetrators who are now considered delinquent under the existing law, whose criminal legislation and justice are constantly being dealt with and become inefficient then in the repression of drug abuse, drug dealers are being lost as witnesses, this has also shown a statistical analysis of the monitoring, detection, processing and punishment of the crimes of drug abuse. So, a completely inadequate society deals with sanctioning, and what does it get? It only spends huge resources, if we consider that over 75, now close to 80% of the crimes of drug abuse is exhausted only in the possession of drugs and the total amount of crime close to 12, 13% participates, then you can think of what is a great amount of energy, time and money because of the criminal justice system, the launch of a criminal apparatus is always expensive and that, for years since the criminal part was spent only one tenth of the state's money in prevention, in the treatment of that youth that is most often the subject of these crimes would have a much smaller problem. And the criminal justice allowed him to deal with those very forms of dangerous forms of smuggling, breeding, trafficking in these intoxicating drugs. So it ends up being drug addicts, drug lords who are never, in any case, drug addicts. And then those who are more victims than some dangerous delinquents, we use them as witnesses, and in that way we exist more effectively in drug control because we have to distinguish significantly from irrelevant. It is essential to reduce the offer on the market but we can see that it is not shrinking and that since we have this criminal act as an entirely inadequate way of fighting drugs, this unfortunately evil has only escalated and we have more and more addicts and we must seriously imagine, therefore, how effectively and rationally to fear here. And I say from a purely criminal, political point of view we courts release the processing and sanctioning of this species here's the crime so far and it's all about such lewd things. Because if the legislators thought it was so particularly dangerous, then they wouldn't have prevented the punishment of the law for a year. And we come to an absurdity that in the Law of Infractions, that is, the Law on the Restraint of Intoxicating Drugs, we are destined to have more severe punishments. We have scheduled a prison sentence of 60 today, or 20 thousand kuna. And here, as a rule, parole is handed down before a criminal court. And so we come to one, one position on which the proposer and the legislator would have to seriously imagine that he simply subjected the criminal trial to a more authoritative and strict trial. In such a situation, criminal law and criminal justice must never and in no case at any time be allowed and cannot be placed in such a position. What seems very important to me is also in this general section and it does not contain the Government's proposal that is taking away property benefit. ... There is a standard where courts would be mandatory but here it is so placed as an imperative so that there is no doubt about whether it creates certain difficulties or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the court is now in charge and not the court will. It is one of these linguistically better formulations but which undoubtedly gives the court in this great commitment, i.e. an irrevocable and irrevocable obligation. The SDP proposal distinguishes murder and murder. This is also on the trail of our Croatian language and we see that many other European legislation distinguish these difficult killings by calling them just such an adequate concept as we have in our Croatian language murder. And we just for the murder of especially a police officer, a state attorney, a lawyer, a judge, persons who guard either detainees or prisoners, in any case persons who expose their lives but who are obliged to expose their lives in this process of detecting and processing those perpetrators to protect them in this way. Or to avoid the threat of killing such a person pulling a life sentence. It's something that the public expects us to do, as the public expects these people to expose their lives. And no, here's just to quote the Italian president who said and they have big problems with the mafia, criminal organizations, so, confronting that kind of crime, there's no need to have illusions, and in our case, it means your head is exposed and in an adequate way such a person must be protected. Of course, punishments also increase, sharpening the penalty for severe bodily injuries. We have no sense of being small to 3 to 5 years old, people staying disabled, so by chance they're still alive. It's nowhere in Europe. And we correct that one injustice to sharpen penalties for serious bodily injuries. And what I think is very important is that it is a stronger protection of workers' rights. So far, we have an incriminating failure to pay, or the rights of workers, a violation of the wage rights that means nothing in practice because almost no one has been convicted because the employer has not paid his salary. Well, that's why we better incriminate things here in a way that criminality is not a violation of wages rights but a payday. Equally better and stricter sanctioned kidnapping. This is something Croatia will only face, and unfortunately it faces especially the kidnapping of children “kidnaping”. Unfortunately, here's the government's proposal doesn't contain it, and we're proposing a prison sentence for up to 12 years. Then, in the act of coercion, in the criminal offence of the threat, the illicit use of personal data was meaninglessly fines by asking the question of why they are then found in the Penal Code in such a way that penalties are prevented up to one year. So we're proposing this stricter punishment. What the government doesn't do contains our proposal. This is a new work of excelling fascist, nationalist and other totalitarian states and ideologies or promoting racism and xenophobia as a special work, and there have been a lot of debates about the government's proposal at the time, and this is exactly how the consensus is and I am formed and I think a very well-incrited act and an adequate punishment has been prevented for it. In the end, it should not be forgotten that if in this way it is not sanctioned that, often, the state authorities are under public criticism, which is why such things are tolerated in society because there are always disturbances of citizens. The new crime is a crime against humanity and we look forward to the same incrimination having the government's proposal, but also command responsibility. If then the opposition had voted in favour of the proposal at the time we would have today, here comes Mrs del Ponte, we could have told her, long ago in our law we have incriminating command responsibility which is very concise, very restrictive but absolutely satisfying the criticism of the European Union and the international community regarding this institute. I would also point out that his author, that's what the Government has completely rewritten, and we thank her for that, the author of our distinguished Professor Novoselac. Here's the first time I apologize to him for even mentioning him because it's a very self-discovery man. I'm sorry that at least the government didn't invite him when he was being used by his authorial work, that at least that's what he's doing in this work. But perhaps less important for that, it's important that we have this incrimination, I say, but it's a shame why not vote for that law? We would be far stronger and more ready today. New incrimination and international terrorism also contain and has a government. A crime of trafficking in human beings and slavery. Our proposal also provides punishment for preparatory actions but also as a particularly difficult qualitative form that often occurs in practice when the subject is women and children, when their documents are being destroyed. This cannot be sanctioned as that work where they were committed after the existing destruction of documents. It is not an adequate act, then, because it is the destruction of documents that makes this criminal act of trafficking particularly difficult for people where it is then prevented and the high penalty. And so we plead to the government to think that this particularly difficult qualified form, which is common in practice, we don't go deaf on it because that's what other countries have. Our obligation, which Mrs. Minister spoke of, was to sanction the preparation of criminal offences, to prepare a crime against the values protected by international law as a special act and to contain one and another proposal. However, it is equally necessary to sanction and ex post assistance of the perpetrator of criminal offences against the values protected by international law under the same obligation. The more the government calls itself, the more adequate it has been done, the more the state itself protects itself in its own special head, these crimes against the attack against the state. So not only the preparations, but also the help of the perpetrator. And it's very important, therefore, for this crime of insult and slander to say something, that we predict only a fine which is one newspaper, but it's not unusual and we distinguish slanders which is very good for journalists. So he who blacks and diphims knowingly lies from him, that he cannot esculpate, but that all those consciously doing their work will be esculpated.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13007	Comrade, I'm sorry, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13008	Which I can't prove my truthfulness, but it's still true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13009	Thank you very much. We're going to a club debate. First on behalf of the Club, Damir Cain, IDS Club, was registered. Here you go, my colleague. I'm sorry, we don't have any records on behalf of the working bodies. Working bodies. The board, what are you sorry for? To the judiciary. [[Intruder: Justice.]] Excuse me, colleague Cain, I didn't see you sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13010	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on Justice discussed these proposals of the law at two sessions, based on Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. At the 4th session held on 27 April 2004, he discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the penal law sent by the government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Parliament. In his opening statement, the president pointed out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has joined criminal law changes in two phases. In the first phase, necessary and urgent changes were proposed, primarily concerning the harmonisation of the Penal Code with international commitments. By harmonising the Penal Code with international conventions, the bill prescribes new criminal acts such as crime against humanity, command responsibility, computer counterfeiting, computer fraud, bribery in economic business, banning human beings and others, and also amending some solutions such as the definition of criminal organisation and the change of criminal acts against honor and reputation in order to establish full freedom of information without the influence of criminal-law repression. In view of the actuality and adverse consequences of the action, the Proposer shall prescribe new offences of anti-exhaustive construction and illegal exploitation of the mineral goods. In terms of economic offences, it is proposed that significant interventions were made with novelties from 2000. The Head of the Working Group from, from, to draft the Bill's Proposal, pointed out that the second phase of the amendment of the Penal Code requires a thorough judgment of the scientific expert and political public on the complex issue of repression and economic crime. During the debate, the Committee members supported the proposed amendments and complemented the law, assessing them in particular in the part relating to the implementation of international law. On the text of the proposal for a law, the Committee shall make the following comments and proposals. An observation has been made to the applicant's commitment to approach criminal law changes in two phases for the simple reason that it is easier to give an assessment of the whole. It has been pointed out that the legal proposal in question did not prescribe the ex-Fashist state's greatness. Or promoting racism and xenophobia. AND that no acts in the area of economic crime are covered. It has been stressed that the proposed changes in criminal offences against honor and the reputation of changing criminal liability all the burdens transferred, the evidence being transferred to the prosecutor. It is proposed to review the existing definition of criminal organisation, since it can be established for other purposes than those prescribed. It is estimated that illegal construction is a major social problem, thus prescribing new criminal acts of illegal construction of exceptional importance. An amendment to Article 252a shall be proposed in a way that resolves anyone without a building permit, replacing words, who, without the necessary building permit, is justified by the fact that the Construction Act prescribes the conditions of construction and special permit. After the discussion, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose the next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. The draft law amending and supplementing the criminal law tabled by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted. Second, any comments, proposals for an opinion, will be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the criminal law, in order to take them into consideration when drawing up the final draft law. At the 5th session, held on 25 May, I am considering a draft law amending and supplementing the penal law that was sent to the president of the Croatian Parliament by the club of representatives. In this debate, the Committee also held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the government does not support the draft law. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the proposal proposed significant changes are proposed in the general section, with regard to the extension of the period of limitation and guilt, and then abolished the provision of pardonation and, in the area of sanctions, a long-term prison place is proposed. In particular, the current paragraph 1 of Article 173 has been modified since the possession of a small amount of drugs for its own use, should be treated as an offence rather than a criminal offence. Which is in line with the law on the prevention of drug abuse, which is by no means the so-called drug abuse. Decriminalization in the broad sense of the word. because such behavior is forbidden and punishable as a violation. Significant changes are being made in the area of economic crimes, a new crime of ex-Fassic state excelling, and an insight into racism and xenophobia, based on numerous civic and initiatives. A new criminal offence and violation of the law in a court procedure with a direct intention to harm or benefit the parties to the business. A representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support this legislative proposal, for reasons which are also mentioned in the Government's opinion. The debate stressed that some criminal rights solutions were harmonised and that they were contained in the discussed proposal by the government of the Republic of Croatia and the proposal in question. The assessment is that in the second phase of making changes to criminal law, some solutions contained in the law amending and supplementing the law, which, by the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, should be considered. It has been pointed out that the change in criminal law that will follow should make an effort to regulate the issue of outdated criminal offences in the area of economic crime, committed during the implementation of privatisation and conversion, and prescribed the work of extenuating fascist ideology. After the discussion was held, the Committee on Justice with two votes in favour and seven votes against decided to propose the next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. The draft law amending and supplementing the criminal law of the SDP representative club shall not be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13011	Thank you very much. Whether any of the working bodies are present, because it says that the debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Justice, European Integration, Family, Youth and Sports, Gender Equality, Information on Media Information, Spatial Environmental Protection, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Reports you received at the session, if anyone else gets back, we can find out that they don't. Okay. A colleague of Caine's club IDS, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13012	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Clear life evolves, and it is logical that according to some evolution this evolutionary process is changing and supplementing the criminal law itself. I don't know, like a cybercrime scam needs to be understood at this time and find a place in our new criminal code. To speak on the other hand of the need to install an edict in the criminal law on the command responsibility of crime against humanity in 2004, and it is similarly slightly deplaced in mind that in the territory of the Republic of Croatia they will certainly not again again the horrors marked by the early 1990s. Finally, individuals may be held accountable for these behaviours, but they may be subject to international ratification conventions by the Republic of Croatia. Finally, someone today will not be able to stand trial under these provisions of new criminal law but can base the provisions of international law. However, if in the 1990s it was possible to commit a crime on the side of one who defends himself in the Homeland War, Croatia would certainly be spared the trauma of The Hague. In the end, I even dare say that generals are sacrificed more precisely soldiers and politicians on behalf of whom they may have previously acted as if they were not dead building successful professional and business careers. It's not fair, but that's the way it is. So it's illusory at all in these incriminating words. In this legal proposal, on the other hand, there are a number of living norms that clearly depict certain states of coke were cartoonists, one archaic period during which to express myself, this country went through. It was a period at some point in time, however, in the 90th and after, even after 2000, the functioning of state bodies that simply went into their extremes. So let's take these articles that talk about illegal construction. Article 252a(1) says now in this proposal for a government code. YES, anyone without a building permit or against the regulations or bans of an illegal state body will be punished by a fine or a prison sentence of up to 3 years. In Article 252a, paragraph 2 of that same Article, it is said that whoever commits the offence referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article in an area which, by regulation or decision of the competent national authority, I would add local self-government, declared culturally historical, full of cultural good or protected natural value, or an area of special interest to the State. He'll be punished for six months to five years. This means, in particular, that any construction without a building permit will be treated if a criminal offence is committed. Ignorance of the law doesn't make any sense. And after today's discussion and then, if this norm is caught, no one will be able to say it's for instance. I don't know a building permit or a fence around your henhouse if it's more than 180cm, as well as what our regulations require a building permit. So if you do it without her, no one will be able to justify that he didn't know what was coming next. If someone takes you on the tooth right now, you can spend three years in prison for that henhouse. And now I'm asking myself if it's a normal state, there's no one who's built something without a permit to build, renovate, and so on. And therefore, before this law is passed, it is urgently necessary to change the law in construction so that not every building in the end turns out to be a criminal offence. Then the question arises, do we have to close every such builder? So where are we gonna go with all that under the quotes of the "immaculate" builders? The prisons will become too tight for us, and those who should first and foremost be dealers who ruin our children's fate as families will remain at large. I agree, I absolutely need to put order in the space. I also agree that lawless construction has taken the proportions of the verse mainly at sea or rather by the sea. I also agree that a number of years before and after the 1990s and after 2000, the state was passive, but I want to believe that the vast majority of MPs will agree with me that it is not the same to build, say, without permission somewhere along the sea, which is the impertinence of a couple of exellance or in a village without permission to build, for example. The garage or instead of a spent roof make a concrete roof. What's the IDS club stand for? Clear for maximum control of construction, but also maximum simplification of construction permits, so that citizens are no longer hostages to the inaction of our administration. That the administration's insubordination doesn't drag people to jail because a year of waiting, for example. on a building permit, he collects your construction by 10, 15, 20 or 30%. In this way no one has the right to harm the state or punish the citizens. I therefore advocate that this paragraph 1 states that an individual will be punished who is building without permission in a fine or in a prison sentence for up to six months, let's stop at those figures. In the case of illegal construction in a protected area, for example, in paragraph 2. National park or by the sea, i.e. With an area of special interest to the state, I suppose it could be a path through which some pipeline, gas pipeline, roads, etc. should pass. The punishment should be up to three years and let's not simply push those penalties too far, because it can't end up being a function of then criminal law. It is also true that it is likely that the institutes of easing penalties can be reduced, but I would also like to see a judge who will, for example, see a family building without permission in one Buzet at a time when you no longer have social housing and when the sub-inhabitation on the other hand is paid by dry gold to determine for this man for a year, two or three years in prison. I didn't build without permission, so someone wouldn't accidentally take it wrong. And it's a good thing I didn't, but it's not a good thing I didn't build it. As far as bribery is concerned, it should now be clearly sanctioned. Not only for the person who has public authority but also in economic business because Croatia has a sufficient number of state-owned companies where such behaviours mean doing business at the expense of the one who should otherwise be the one who runs the business actually does damage to him, so there is an exaggeration with us. When the privateer is by comparison probably such a condition is hardly possible, but when the state is by comparison, when the utility company is by comparison, it doesn't matter if it's owned by the city, the municipality, the county, then the state, then I don't think it surprises anyone. However, these provisions are absolutely to be incorporated into the Penal Code, but should have existed before the start of conversion and privatisation in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. If the penalties are signs of lawless construction of a dragon, then the head that talks about human trafficking and slavery simply in some way dares me to say it in privilege. It is said here that anyone who breaks the rules of international law recruits, buys, sells, surrenders, transports, translations, encourages or intervenes in the purchase, sale or surrender, hides or receives a child, a minor, etc. etc. Then the fines are guaranteed from 5 years and beyond. This does not mean, however, that it is a small penalty, but certainly incomparably smaller than the code said by the lawless builders. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. criminal offences committed by means of public communication. For me, this measure is logical, but it does not mean, as Mrs Ingrid Anticevic used to say, that anyone from the media can slander anyone under quotes in the way he likes it. It's finally the cancer of our journalism. I agree, however, that civil liability is quite sufficient and that freedom of speech must be protected in both this and that of people working in the media. By abolishing criminal persecution for the claims made, I support, and on the other hand, the advice would be never to sue any journalist, or political opponent. However, on the other hand, the publisher must give you a chance to deny him in the same way and in the same form as someone calls you. This inaction should also be sanctioned in some way under quotes, and that means that the editorial processing of the text in one case or another in the one where you are slandered and in this other case must be approximately the same, not that you find yourself on the back pages of some cursive writing or I don't know what to call it, which is the usual practice in the Republic of Croatia even though this matter is regulated by other laws. Secondly, as regards this SDP proposal, it should be said that their proposal is certainly worth the attention because it is a de facto small criminal law, a code that contains even Article 161 and which has been, in fact, before us, already on the agenda for, say, a year or two days. The question arises whether it is so wide-ranging in this normative part of the Penal Code. Is it in any way encouraging or jeopardizing only legal certainty? I find it particularly interesting, for example, to say the provisions of Article 4 which refer to antiquity, but the proposed solutions may be more appropriate from the existing code. Let the state simply do its job and not allow it to fall into old age. The question of life imprisonment honestly and against my belief as well as the death penalty even though the long-term prison de facto turns into a life sentence, because if someone is sentenced to 30 years in his 40s he's de facto sentenced to life imprisonment but the IDS won't go against the public or this proposal because maybe it's even more humane to keep a life in a prison facility than to let him out in his 75s. What I welcome in this SDP proposal or proposal can and can say, the former government is sanctioning the greatness of fascist, Nazi and other totalitarian ideologies. I remember what these discussions were like in this part of the criminal changes a year or two ago in this assembly. I am also to be honest with you why the former Government, for example, did not install those changes into the catalogue of incrimination, that she had the courage not to be raised by the urn by that disgrace from the monument of France in Sukun, which she did not have the courage to remove, but I want to believe that with full right she would do so by the new government, although I am surprised that the government in the opinion that we had had had the opportunity to hear from the representative of the Committee on Justice, was about to declare itself in a way that those provisions did not need to be embezzled in the Penal Code. I also believe that the monument in Slunj will not be removed because it does not have a building permit because if the condition is a building permit, then in Croatia it could easily begin to build monuments not only Francetic with a building permit, but that the monument will eventually be removed because it supported a totalitarian ideology or because it thus spreads hatred across the country. Generally, lifting penalties for all actions of the IDS Club does not approve. So it is not only the purpose of the Penal Code, then, that the pronunciation of these, under quotes, of maximum punishments or of preventing the maximumist punishments that an individual, under quotes, should turn away from a crime. If it were that simple, there'd probably be no crime anywhere. If that were the case then we probably shouldn't need judges, prosecutors, police, eventually we just need traffic police to advise us how to behave in traffic, pedestrians to enable, I don't know, that easier communication. But regardless of the level of punishment, we simply won't be left without criminal behavior. What should be particularly regulated by my court in this bill is the abuse of the judiciary. When it happens that the judiciary is beginning to abuse its position, and from several recent media inscriptions, we can conclude that there are as many things in Croatia as possible, then it is a sign that the rule of law has touched the bottom. When you list, at last, the polls in certain institutions, then the courts in Croatia that should stand very, very well, unfortunately, very, very badly stand. Finally, the way the judiciary can ruin you without having any consequences is something that can't be described at all. I'm not going to talk about any recent cases, however, something about the SDP proposal in Article 337a, but that punishment should be far greater than these 6 months to 5 years, at least from year to 10 years in prison. So now we're not going to compare a ruined human destiny for illegal, say, court decisions with the lawless construction of that said chicken in the area of Buzet. Clearly, there is talk of getting someone benefit or harm. However, in my view, it should be added, if it is also misused, knowingly abuse the procedural norms regarding the attempt to harm a person consciously or to endanger her procedural, human, civic or not knowing her rights. All in all, clearly, life evolves, so must this life follow criminal law. However, in all these changes, especially when penalties are due in response, a measure needs to be found. With drugs, I'm absolutely or the IDS Club is absolutely against legalization and even the mildest forms of these drugs psychotropics. About decriminalization of certain behaviours there is the use of small amounts for its own use, etc., to debate although I am sure there are no parents who will accept it, especially if a child can be exposed to such a single risk. And let the state show what it knows, which it can and can clearly express the maximum repression because it has the full legitimacy and mandate of Croatian citizens. But also, let our parents, let our victims, children, neighbors talk about those who in this way abuse the health of our children, and not to live permanently in some oath of silence, avert and thus feed organized crime, and then call the state for inaction, local self-government or someone third. The rights of the worker, i.e. the failure to pay, whether to treat it as a criminal offence. I think it's logical, just say who's gonna be sued by a craftsman or a peasant if he can't afford his own money? However, I support this principle, in Croatia too many people have been exposed to such a form, under quotes, almost slavery. At a time of 120, 140 thousand people worked, and they didn't get paid. Today there are over 40,000 still working, not getting paid. It's a huge social problem. Whomever they punish here, whether the director, whether the owner, whether the legal person, etc., if they don't get on the market is also a questionable norm, but let's try to introduce order here. For the end, all in all, life evolves, and it is clear that this life should also be monitored by criminal law. And the IDS Club is absolutely that one and another legal proposal goes into the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13013	Thank you very much, Comrade Cain. On behalf of the promoter, MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović reported. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13014	Thank you, Madam Vice President. As ours, our proposal contains comprehensive changes, then it's logical that these half-hours are not, in that general part, not particularly counting. So here, I'm using this opportunity to also look also at one of the most significant of our very significant amendments now. In particular, significant changes are proposed in the area of economic crime. This already may be boring to say, but it must not be forgotten and it must not be a fact that during the conversion and privatisation, a large number of anti-legislative actions that are often not processed, which make it difficult to affirm the rule of law, bring mistrust to citizens and laws and powers. And I can say that, and that coalition power, the ineffectiveness of it, even though the causes are comprehensive, cost exactly this. So that's something that citizens won't forget about even this government, and that's why you need to think about how to find it. Here, here as proposing us and as legislators, you do in that normative part that this type of crime is best sanctioned. Because what was illegally acquired through the existing incrimination couldn't have been easily dragged. And besides statutes, and that is why this is especially composing our proposal to extend the statute of limitations and about this better incriminating of economic crimes is possible and in the future combating this type of crime that has caused a great mistrust of citizens in all institutions and ultimately in honesty and justice. And even if it makes sense to still fight for such ideals. What is also very important to mention, and this is a computer counterfeiting and a computer fraud which also contains the Government's proposal, but our proposal contains a new criminal act, a chain game. It is also a special kind of fraud that is often the victim of our citizens and I think the government should also take care of it. Our bill contains better incrimination, stronger protection of violations of the rights of the producer of sound or image footage, because the penalties are intended to be ridiculous, a year. So what's he doing in criminal law where he's been incarcerated for a year? It is therefore proposed to amend the sanctions to increase the prison sentence to three years and the same thing that is also very current that the Government is considering, proposing the Final Proposal of the Interest Act. And parallelly, the Penal Code is also proposed, and that's not at all a matter of thought. So does the government run one consistent policy? Now it's time to react this way. We took care of that before, when it was the government's proposal. So it is certainly suggested that the penalty for the loan agreement cannot be a year. If it's a year you're practically just a form to incriminate it, but practically no punishment, no prison sentence, no real sanctions, no real social conviction for such social behavior. and very questionable, this is what the SDP Club's proposal changes, it is questionable that one third of the suspended penalties in the Penal Code are existing penalties by year and later perhaps another two-thirds to, or another third to three years. And then it makes sense to say, which is the consequence that criminal policy is mild and too mild, because, above all, it was because the legislator put it that way. And the penalty for concealment is tightened, and especially for a qualified form when it was committed in a group or criminal organisation, and up to five years, the government doesn't say anything about it. It's very important and here's the new, new incrimination that the government is proposing, illegal construction in particularly protected areas. However, other existing criminal offences are not systematically approached again. Look at the little crime scene that's talking about environmental protection, there's a lot of exaggeration. Our proposal for a law contains a penalty for the continued pollution of the environment to rise to a measure of three years. For a prison sentence of up to one year, where you can cause considerable damage to plants, to the animal world, where it has been prevented, please punishment for a year. And that's exactly what a reckless, stop-up behavior has to do with the terrible consequences. Even sometimes it's absurd, but sometimes it's more than conscious and deliberate. Then illegal fishing. To avoid a private lawsuit, the SDP's proposal is to launch an exopho on official duty. And we look forward to the government accepting this incrimination of the illegal exploitation of mine goods that once contained criminal legislation. And then very unusually, it evaporated from our criminal legislation. So then it happens that illegal mines dig it up, damage state property, and then sell it to the state for highway construction and so on. And yet to be noted in this criminal section of illegal construction, only illegal construction is incriminating in particularly protected areas. That there was a crime when social property was once protected, so it just turned into the protection of state property. It was a criminal act for the possession of such property at all. It's not construction, it's state property. But then the original HDZ government thought there was no more social property and no more criminal activity. What delusions and consequences. We, our proposal also contains the addition of the criminal part of putting people and property at risk and in some forms of abstract endangerment. It's not often something that happens in the world, that various blackmailers or terrorists are being followed by bombs, and even those who haven't exploded, we're proposing more sanctions and the introduction of that crime. The threat of public traffic with a fatal consequence in today's existing law is a three-year sentence. Here we hear Minister Kosor announces co-ordination, stricter penalties, amendments to the Transport Safety Act. So did anyone in the government remember to say something about this Penal Code, and you're proposing at the same time the Penal Code and you're not talking about it. That's serious criticism. Criticism with regard to the systematicity and comprehensiveness of the conduct of a particular policy. Well, we can't just run when something happens to public effects in that way. What a co-ordination, and it is proposed, at an earlier cabinet session, or several government sessions earlier, to amend the Penal Code. And that's not a word to say. However, an opinion is given, where the government is given an opinion that rejects such a SDP club proposal. We'd love to have the government take it on its own. Because that's what these changes are all about, it's government business, not opposition. But we have accepted and waited for the government to react in such a way, but unfortunately only in that minimum part, again where something is being forced, not something where it is necessary to react independently, how to make its criminal justice, which is more effective and more effective. And the same counterfeiting of money as the typical criminal part of organised crime, where we sanction it on an efficient basis, or we suggest sanctions and money laundering, a new name, rather than concealing illegalally obtained money, where the right core of things is not seen. And another thing, we keep warning, there's no sanction for basic form. And we suggest that, the government doesn't react to that. There is no penalty for sanctions, the penalty provided for money laundering, or illegally obtained money, and it is still not corrected. And in any case, it is necessary to tighten the fines and also to increase the sentence to 10 years in the event of bankruptcy of 5 years. The abuse of a monopolies or ruling position on the market should then also be brought into line with the Constitution. Finally, the responsibility and better protection of children, especially those exposed to pornographic material, as well as the obligation of staff of an educational institution who does not report a criminal act committed to the harm of minors, has been strengthened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13015	Thank you very much, colleague. Will one of the government's representatives or can you do it later? How about later or now? Later, thank you. Let's move on in the name of the clubs. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS, respected representative Nikola Buljanic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13016	Thank you. Madam President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me present on behalf of the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the PGS at this stage of the debate primarily on the proposed texts of the laws on amendments and additions to the Penal Code. Later on, when we come to another part of the debate, we will likely have amendments and remarks to what the Proposer proposes. There are clear reasons and the need to pass this law and to pass this law at this time. On the one hand, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to adapt its criminal legislation to international obligations under the conventions ratified after the entry into force of the Penal Code, which applies from 1.1. 98. Especially with regard to new forms of crime, organised crime, computer crime of international terrorism, its financing, as has been done in both proposals and the government's proposal and SDP's proposal. Then corruption of illegal migration, human trafficking and the like. But as with a number of other international law regulations. The adaptation of our standards is not and must not, in the opinion of the HNS Club, the PGS be dictated by pressure and desire to meet these and those requirements, in order to reach these and those objectives. All these standards that work in the world to which we want to join are these, and we want to accept them not because someone is forcing us but because we want to function as Europe and were and were not in the European Community. What we want to act as Europe and at the moment of our approach to the European Community. That should be, I am convinced, and that it is the central strategic commitment of Croatian politics regardless of who is in power. On the other hand, the new criminal offences that I mentioned earlier as well as the escalation of certain criminal offences and groups of criminal offences in particular in the area of corruption and economic crime, and their insufficient determination and lack of adequate force in the law also condition the need for a thorough revision of the Penal Code, therefore, not only to adapt to the current, current requirements of the international community. I would especially like to emphasise the need developed through the development of the democratic institutions of the Republic of Croatia and the awareness that we are building a country that is part of a modern civilised world to be sanctioned with the eloquence of fascist and other totalitarian ideology. Europe is built on anti-fascism, Croatia is built on anti-fascism. It's a fact that we must never give up but that we must not ignore. Therefore, the objectives of passing this law are to stop the escalation of criminal offences, especially of new forms of crime, but also of classical crime, and to promote efficiency, justice in sanctioning and preventing crime. A little bit about methods. The proposal for a law on amendments and complementarity of the Penal Code to shape it by the SDP significantly enhances repression. This is evident almost through the entire text of the law, i.e. the bill. Of course that would make sense. All the repression-enhancing blades are standing. If the case law were different and that practice would not show that the repressive apparatus of the law and under existing regulations is used very, very timidly and with a high dose of insight precisely to the perpetrators of criminal offences and not to their victims. So if, for a criminal offence for which a sentence of up to 5 years has been prevented, for example, the most frequent punishment on the lower border is prevented or even below it, and even a suspended sentence, then it is illusory to expect that the more forbidden punishment will act preventively on the future potential perpetrators of that crime. They're not gonna read the law, they're watching the practice. About the proposed life sentence, I'll do something else later. The government's proposal for the same law is more cautious, we assess cautiously and the changes are limited to the most or almost exclusively to adapting to international standards, so it is proposed to be gradual, to amend the laws at stages of which the proposed text would be the first. This concerns, in particular, the change in the provisions on economic crime. Well, the government will note that these changes will be approached in the next phase of the law. We're convinced the urgency here is not necessary. Moreover, these 14 years have shown us that we should have had such laws before. A fundamental obstacle on the road to legal regulation in this field but not only design but also full application but also the value of international experience is undoubtedly current court practice. Obstructed maximum penalties are very rarely pronounced and the system of mitigation for the perpetrators is so wide that each so much occurs to repeat the most severe crimes almost without exception with tragic consequences. The case-law at the same time is unequal, and in no case does it matter whether you did the same criminal part of the traffic in Zagreb on your way to the Adriatic, for example in Gospić or at the sea in Split. Respecting the absolute freedom of judicial assessment, the circumstances of committing a criminal act, such differences lead to the loss of meaning of certain provisions of the law. Good laws are an excellent prerequisite for a fair solution to disagreements in society. But without an effective judiciary or the most just, the most comprehensive laws do not represent God knows what. The development of judges, and the establishment of a judicial academy, and there has been a lot of public talk there should play a key role. In its judicial reform programme, the Croatian People's Party has proposed some solutions that would certainly contribute to efficiency. The Government proposal practically covers those amendments and additions to the laws that the Republic of Croatia is obliged to implement. So it's not about cosmetic amendments to the law, and changes are essential but the width of change is limited. The government said it intends to change the law to several stages. Why, at this time and right now, the government is not proposing some detailed changes particularly to the economic crime plan, the question it will need to answer in the debate will follow after the first reading of this bill. On the other hand, the legal proposal of the SDP contains 160 articles, 161 in fact, which means that it proposes to amend 40% of all members, all articles of the law, this is an apparent new law. It is not, however, that all these 160 amendments are fundamentally changing the text of the law, but changes are also taking place through the amendment of the details of the articles. It is obvious that this proposal is aimed at a thorough revision of the law and not only the necessary adjustments but also at changing some fundamental settings. The HNS and PGS Club assesses not only acceptable but only the understandable insistence of both the proposings to bring the penal law of the Republic of Croatia into line with international regulations. This is about the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, Criminal Law Convention, Corruption, the International Convention against Recruitment, Use, Payment, Training of Mercenaries, the Convention on Cybercrime, the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings, the Consensus with the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and so on. It's obvious that time for all of this has been relatively small. And that, as soon as possible, this aspect of the functioning of the rule of law should be systematically and thoroughly adapted to global, especially European standards. This adjustment is not a clear thing in itself. Neither can nor can I be convinced that it's not just an answer to someone's press and someone's dictatorship. It is about establishing standards that have proved acceptable, effective, good and which of the countries whose community we want to enter in a few years have made such a group of countries to which the whole world envys and which we are trying to get close to. In the same context, we want to support part of the SDP proposal on the introduction of a new criminal part of the greatness of fascist and other totalitarian states and ideologies or the promotion of racism and xenophobia. The introduction of this crime would certainly help to remove concerns in practice and court practice and concerns in some heads and in Croatia and thus reaffirm once again as a country built on anti-fascism and indistinguishment of any form of totalitarianism. We also positively assess the introduction of a criminal part of the spread of false and disturbing rumors. It is part of a potentially very high social danger especially when it comes to the possibility of malicious use of means of mass communication, especially of electronics, and these days we can see from the newspapers. The proposals pay due attention to the clear definition of international terrorism and, in particular, the new criminal part of terrorist financing, which has been completely neglected so far. It is similar with computer crime as with modern form, as with modern crime. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The law which fully transfers the liability for libel in the media to the editor of these media is abolished, so-called objective responsibility and promotes the freedom of the media that we experience as a positive shift. It is also part of a law that has recently experienced numerous criticisms and strange disagreements in, in, in practice. On the other hand, the intention of defamation and damage is still sanctioned in a special part of the Law in Article 203. A little bit now, yes, these were the positive sides of the law by the club's assessment. To say something, the bill of law, is to say something about what seems unacceptable to us in these proposals. The proposal to tighten the repression, which is one of the key specifics of the SDP proposal, in our opinion, would not in the real environment receive the desired results or contribute to better prevention. As I was saying, the case law shows that high obstacles are rarely pronounced. And they spend even less time at the end. So we think that this proposal only raises the public and actually cloudes an unacceptablely ineffective prevention and sanctioning of criminal offences. We consider this a politically harmful and loss of energy and attention that should be directed elsewhere. The HNS doesn't accept the suspended sentence of life law, the prison pardons, instead of a long-term prison as it is now in law for several reasons. The arguments that there is a public support for such punishment do not seem particularly convincing to me because if a good choice is made the moment when a truly terrible crime similar support could be obtained for the death penalty and for any other extreme full - time measure. The sentence of a life imprisonment in our opinion is the revenge of society and is completely deviating from what this Law should wish to receive. Both topics were discussed extensively on the round table of the HNS in amendments to the Penal Code, which was attended by university professors, some prominent lawyers and a number of other experts from this area. Through the discussion and in the survey questionnaire, which the present experts have therefore fulfilled, opinions on life imprisonment have been shown to be divided. About 50 percent of respondents agreed with the fine, the other half did not. Interesting results were obtained in a survey conducted by the Croatian People's Party on a relatively representative sample of 2046 respondents from across the country. Here over 80% of respondents considered it necessary to impose life imprisonment sentences for the most severe forms of criminal acts instead of the long-term prison sentence so far. It is obvious that the opinion of the profession and general public opinion is at stake, so these issues certainly deserve a further broad public debate both in professional and lay-off circles. The extension of the flag period shall be achieved by the automation of the increase of the suspended sentence for a certain criminal offence. Further extension of the flag should not, in our opinion, lead to an increase in the efficiency of the system. On the contrary, the real chance is that by making a large number of decisions, it would simply be delayed with a cut: Well, there's still time. And time doesn't really exist if we know what number, what number of unfinished cases are in our courts. The government is neither trying to define more clearly the description of the crimes in the area of economic crime except those which are strictly concerned with adapting to the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia. The explanation that this will be the subject of the next phase of reform would be convincing if we had clearly defined phases and deadlines. This is how vague the intentions are, and it seems unclear to me that the proponents' motives are to skip such an important thing. We should ask the question clearly if we have time. We're confident the answer wouldn't be positive. And to narrow my attitudes. In the course of the debate, I think it would also be very useful to bring together the positive sides of both proposals and remove those parts that are unacceptable and include parts that are not directly related to the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia in the reform of the law. Is this now about a comprehensive change in how the SDP proposes or, or, or something narrowed down, but in any case wider than the one proposed by the government. On the other hand, this topic is too important and too extensive and it is not possible to allow it from the debate and to exclude the professional public at this stage. The second intercathedarian session of the Faculty of Law in Osijek is looking for a change of law. It was somewhere in the fall of 2003, she gave up the bar. It would be good for everyone to make their views known to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. I expect time for this after the first reading, and I hope that the promoter of these attitudes will respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13017	Thank you very much, colleague. Let's move on with the debate on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13018	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, above all on behalf of the HSP Club, I will refer to the government's proposal for a law amending and supplementing the criminal law and I can immediately say that the HSP Club will support the fullness of the Government's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. We agree that it is necessary to make important reforms within the judicial authority, and one way to make the right important reform is also part of the change in criminal law in such a way as to make a precise and precise description of the crimes so that there are no later different possibilities for it to incriminate crimes that are against, and we know that crimes are not to go into obsolescence or to be bad accusations and continue to be what has happened before. But here again we have to, I think we have those rightful rightful questions of prey and robbery in conversion and privatisation. So grab and rob in conversion and privatisation. When I say so, we know for a fact that the former government has won elections in robbery and robbery in conversion and privatisation. Did what she did in that she didn't do much. Very little. And I can honestly say she hasn't even changed the Privatization Act. So it was all about all of that. Why that didn't happen, but for us, the right question can't be solved in a way because we stick to the principles of Roman law, and that's something that's invalid can't become legally valid. Unfortunately, we are coming into a situation that is not just “de iura” but “de facto” that predatory and robbery are in conversion and privatisation are essentially legalized. Why are they legalized? For a number of reasons. They were de facto legalized because they were, we had a bad Penal Code, they were bad descriptions, uh, and beings of crime and everything else. The second is the situation were bad accusations so no charges. There was bad co-operation between the police and the state's attorney's office and the consequences of all this were many acquittals and the most unfortunate thing we saw was the report and the State's audits that, in many cases, the robbery and the robbery in the conversion and privatisation occurred out of date. We will never or can never accept it and also most Croatian citizens cannot accept the consequences of the pensioners, especially workers and defenders. Because during the Homeland War, one of them was defending the state, one of them was stealing that country. And now watch what happens that everywhere in such systems is now those who are meant to grab and rob into conversion and privatization acquired economic power, now it is normal for them to start operating as a legal state. They will now give everything that the rule of law works so that all that property means illegal, anti-moral gain can defend. And they will and will be the greatest advocates to make the rule of law work. So this fucking thing here and the government has to give their position as well as how to solve it all and put it on its right feet. On my own, I say the proposed law, I must say that by reading the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in particular Article 2 which says that the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia is inalienable, indivisible, and reading the second article which shows that the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia extends in its respective areas, rivers and all how it goes, and also the third one that says that Croatia has sovereign rights and jurisdiction in the sea area, in the Adriatic Sea outside the state area, to the borders with its neighbours, it seems to me that we will need to propose and introduce a criminal offence that is directed against the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. I say this here responsiblely because this afternoon we are going to make one decision that is essentially in line with Article 2(2) and Article 2(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so it is obvious that we must bind ourselves as well, do not violate the meaning of our representatives in the Croatian Parliament so that we do not violate the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and act towards the Constitution. I also think we should introduce a new criminal act called capture of rust. And these are all sorts of variations for you when officials in the realization of their interest do something that is directed against the nation against the people, and against all citizens. Therefore, we will have to limit ourselves here in a way that we fully fulfil our constitutional obligation. As far as the descriptions of the crimes themselves are concerned, we are pleased that the definition of association for the initiation of active acts is also satisfied with the introduction of the criminal offence of the illegal expatation of the mineral goods, related to the illegal construction of the matter, it is clear to us that the achievement of this criminal code of crime refers only to those protected areas. But obviously we will not be able to resolve this issue only by criminal law, but we must take other measures to discuss more about the laws when Mrs Dropulic comes. But one way is to pass laws like Sweden, Austria about bans only construction where then we can do much more precisely and precisely determine how and how it can be built and how there are no such situations as there is in one Sweden and, let's say, in Austria, self-building is prohibited, and that means that those who perform the works can automatically take measures and everything can be solved much simpler. Now we come to that variant first we need to be aware that this is all we do and that we support in the Ministry of Justice to really implement the reform that the judicial authority becomes what the constitution says, that it becomes independent, that we have a trio of power, if the judicial authority becomes what is recorded and in the Constitution, then we will also get the basis for the full functioning of the rule of law. But unfortunately, we have to remember what the situation is now, the fate of the government, about the fact that there really is a situation that we have a bad machine is bad co-operation between the police and the state's attorney's office. We have a day-to-day situation that many girls give us information that has either a state secret or other degrees of secrecy or business or other variants. And normally we come all in that we need to conduct full education, judicial authorities and the creation of a judicial authority in a way that the judge will not react in a particular case if someone calls him from the supreme authority telephone, but the judge must be a judge, he must be independent. But in this, we, too, must make much more of the Croatian Parliament, and this is related to ensuring the financial resources for the work of the originals. We ourselves know the conditions under which the judiciary works in no way and the conditional rule of law has an impact on how much funds it will propose for the judicial authority, if the proposal means less automatically, in such a way it indirectly influences that the fateful authority does not become what it should become. Therefore, before the justice ministry and the Croatian government, there is one important task, and it is not enough to do just the normative part, the legal part, for the practice of reform, but to take the most important step, to establish the right judicial authority. So which will be educated only permanently independent and in this way we will get the citizens of Croatia to gain plenoy in the functioning of the rule of law. Because at this point, we know what kind of survey indicators are on how much we believe in the power of judgment we know how many objects there are and everything else. Is it about all of this we have to say that first all of this has to be done not because we are courting Brussels to someone else, third, but because of Croatian citizens. It means that the justice system works and all of this is less important for us and for Croatian citizens we will have something in the regulation that Carla Del Ponte told us or someone else, that is irrelevant. The important thing is that what we have works, and that's how we build legal charms. Further regarding the introduction of two new crimes it is a command responsibility and a crime against humanity we must be aware of the following facts, the Croatian Assembly did not make a big mistake in this assembly of nerves in the former assembly, we ourselves know that we had military co-department and military prosecutions. And military courts and military prosecutors who had many of these things to sanction and run just when they stopped to do these jobs, then in 97, military courts and military prosecutors were abolished, Mr. Bajic, who was in the military prosecution, and then what was worse, that all those cases that were or were filed against the unknown perpetrator, against the known perpetrator. Whether they were filed by the M.O.P. back then or by the military police were involved with the person in charge, now there were six military courts, there were six military prosecutors. And then it didn't know who was in charge, so it went out of the drawer into the drawer, and in the end we came into a situation where it was all dictated by the Hague tribunal. So I say there are a lot of links to the government has the Ministry of Justice will have our support in this section to implement reforms. And in that part and by encouraging these changes and additions, I'm saying two proposals and SDP's proposal is a good thing for a man to be realistic. And this proposal is good enough, so maybe you should see that certain things are trying to be coordinated. I'd be right behind this part of extending the deadlines of limitations. if it could solve those cases where the statute of limitations occurred. But there's also room in these situations for us not to go into obsolescence again. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13019	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the promoter again Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go. Just as you approach the speaker to read a note. That, in accordance with Article 207(2), the time for the application for a 10-minute hearing has expired. Thank you very much. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13020	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, what my colleague Kovacevic was now saying, I think it is of paramount importance, and that is what I would like to say, and what the SDP Club proposal contains. Namely, the relationship of the other two branches of government to the judicial authority. But we also witness some unusual situations when in the process some trials that are of exceptional importance to the public are then the question of the law is whether the laws are good, as they are. When we pass the law, when we propose it, when it is passed, when it is time to react then we switch to the burden, or to the field of trial. Of course, at all times we need to look at what this means in practice, but we need to concentrate on exactly what we can and must and what we are obliged to do against the judicial authorities. The SDP club proposes to better protect the judiciary, to really be a government, that the judge in the courtroom is power. We are witnessing unfortunately today that the judge is simply afraid of aggressive parties, participants in the procedure, to threaten one party court in front of another party. As the party then behaves and feels where the court does not react, because it is not adequately protected, because then he must file special private lawsuits and, apart from his own cases, he must deal with his cases, and this is almost daily in Croatian courts. And how, then, that citizen who is conscious, who has come to justice can expect justice from a court when that court is often unable to protect himself. And that's something that's been resolved by all the legislation. Well, it's not just a murder of a judge or an assault on a judge as an official as a special offense. That's your special weight. Special weight should be given when the parties to each other are offended by the court, so it is not an insult to the parties, it is an insult to the court other than that, and that is the way to think. It is something that is called obstruction or obstruction of justice everywhere in the world, and it is something that contains the SDP's proposal, and it is something that needs to be introduced into our legislation, into our Penal Code, and with that we are already fat late. So it's one sighting of our cause, better protection of the court, better its security and personal and its independence, but then also greater and concentrated responsibility. Because a person who is not protected by a particularly official person, especially both a judge and a judicial authority, cannot then have adequate responsibility, and can neither gain nor accomplish anything that has been given to him by law and Constitution in this important and important social task. That is why we suggest that judges of protection, that any demeaning, insulting or inadequate, rude conduct in the courtroom is a criminal offence, is a obstruction of justice, because it is a kind of always pressure and makes it difficult to make the right decision, because the trial is one of the most complex intellectual activities where those minimum conditions of respect and discipline must be ensured. Now there is a complete mess, but it is also a guilty legislator, has not provided adequate protection, and that is something that needs to be changed, unfortunately the government's proposal does not mention at all. We also propose to criminalise the crime of preventing evidence that is in line with the ratified United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. But on the other hand, we propose to introduce no new criminal offence in the criminal offence against the judiciary, the crime was familiar with our Croatian criminal law, but in the 1990s, it really magically disappeared from our criminal law and it's not good. We propose the introduction of a criminal offence, the violation of the law in a court procedure, and this criminal act would not only be limited to judges, judges as perpetrators, but would include both state lawyers and their deputies involved in the court proceedings, i.e. in the decision-making process and would only be held accountable if they violated the law in order to benefit or harm a party, so they violate the law knowingly because they violate the law daily in terms of the intention of the guilty, guilty, wrongly established, wrongly established facts. It's those injuries when you always react normally to a higher court. But using your judicial function not only for the unconscious but for the illegal, knowingly misused to harm others or to ensure the benefit of others is something that devastates not only the judiciary but it undermines the total society and the trust of society in the institutions at all, and that is something that is very dangerous. But of course, here is the question of whether there is one here and indeed there is a certain tension between the unimpeached principle of judicial independence and this crime. However, until now, after this criminal offence has disappeared from our criminal law, it is possible to sanction such an unlawful conduct by a judge or another judicial officer through the abuse of his position which was completely inadequate and what happened in practice, that it was precisely after that that chicaneous treatment against very conscientious judicial officials who were convicted and when it was not easy to process, even a little light thing, that criminal charges were filed against them. That's outrageous. While others who have not acted consciously could not fail, because such an overly wide-ranging thing is entirely adequate to sanction the conscientiously illegal conduct of a judicial official. So when it can be abuse of everything, then it's not abuse of anything. After all, such an obligation belongs to us also from the Constitution. Therefore, this crime is intended to protect judges, in order to protect against chicane behaviour, but there must also be zealous law enforcement authorities here to sanction, i.e. to initiate proceedings against those who falsely report only to deconcentrate the long ones, destabilize the words in this important and important business. But on the other hand, to be condemned and to be judged by one who, past every sound logic, is judged by something that only a healthy person can no longer explain. That's all that's left to incriminate. I mean, first of all, it's in the protection of the judicial authority, but it's also strengthening responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13021	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We will now be contacted by State Secretary from the Ministry of Justice Mrs. Snježana Bagic, and behind this I am obliged to give information that we will have a break by 14 hours, and at exactly 14 o'clock will begin with the proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on enlargement and jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia on the Adriatic Sea. Since it was a change, first we had a plan to work without a break, I told some of them so. I'm just giving you some more information, yeah. The MPs are looking for a break, we can discuss it, but first the secretary of state will... Okay, but first the secretary of state, I've already announced her, and then we can open a discussion with the clubs. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13022	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here, at the end of this part and after the presentation of individual clubs of representatives, allow me first of all to thank you for the obvious and the opinion and the observations, of course, all those who have looked back on both the Government's proposal and the SDP Club's proposal. This proposal for a law particularly at the end of this discussion has been observed and should be seen in a broader context, so that, within the framework of judicial reform, what the two other authorities need to ensure that the judiciary works successfully, effectively, and in order to be able to fulfil its task and, of course, remain independent and to judge under the Constitution and the law. It is true that we need to create conditions for the judiciary and the state's attorneys and judges in particular who judge, to make judgments, among other things, other than the working conditions to be sure of their tasks. This, of course, is not always easy to provide because as much as we try to ensure fully secure conditions can always be surprises. Therefore, prevention must be as good as possible, so the measures we take to ensure that they work safely within the framework of the judicial police and other countermeasures, must be applied to all courts as systematically as possible. The only segment of this is the provision of effective, adequate legal protection. The question arises whether in our existing legislation, including criminal legislation, this measure is sufficiently secure or not? Of course, it can always be debated, it can always be thought that it can be better, but we must note that at this point in our legislation, criminal law has a special chapter called "Court Cases Against Justice" and that, among the other acts relating to illegal behaviours that represent incrimination is also violent behaviour towards a judicial official. In order to fully assess whether it is necessary to strengthen this in a legislative sense, I think one analysis should first be carried out as to how legislative measures are even applied. On the one hand, on the other hand, on the one hand, it is one legal framework that we must provide to the judge, other judicial officials as mechanisms available to them to be used in the trial. Therefore, I must also point out that there are a number of means, instruments, measures, penalties which he may give to the participants in the case of an unlawful or unwitting or incorrect conduct towards the person who is conducting the proceedings. This is about this broader context as part of the judicial reform and the creation of conditions for the work of judges, on the one hand. So, their safety and on the other hand strengthening their responsibility. When we're on this plan, the debate was in this direction, and that's whether the Government's proposal is wide enough. In fact, it was assessed that the Government's proposal was too careful. It is possible to say so, but if we observe whether to go gradually into several stages or in one, the government evaluates and evaluates and I think we have explained enough in the opening statement, that a certain amount of caution is needed. Why? Because by my judgment, it's my personal assessment, sometimes we go into changes to the law, and we haven't analyzed enough reach, their current application in practice what we're going to achieve through that application. That's what I'm saying because this Penal Code, for example, which we're discussing today, has been going on for six years, and this would be his fourth amendment, or 5, if we talk about what the Constitutional Court has abolished. And it is always going with the same intention, therefore, to improve efficiency, to make criminal legislation safer, easier to apply, and that the Penal Code which, by its essence, according to its location is repressive, therefore, responds to its task. Of course, in the case of repression, we must not always forget the prevention that is necessary and if we improve prevention, then we will need less repression. I, part of the opinion of those who in this debate today, have pointed out that the question is whether the very height of the fine, the raise of the upper threshold, is something that will contribute to better functioning of the system, criminal legislation, to impose greater penalties. In fact, practice shows that even in cases where you have been given a highly obstructed sentence, it is often not pronounced. So, you need to analyze the reasons why simply these assets, these cases when you have a high sentence don't apply, why it doesn't express itself. That is why, and in relation to this SDP proposal which has a number of criminal offences where this amount is increased, i.e. the level of the suspended sentence, the Government of the Republic of Croatia considers and assesses that it is not necessary or necessary to do so now at this stage. That a thorough analysis, judgment and assessment of the amount of penalties prevented, criminal policies, judicial practices, reasons for judicial practice in the leading cases and when it may not impose the highest penalty should indeed be made. What are the reasons for the ease of circumstance and only after one such systematic overall analysis to go to possible and increase the level of the suspended penalty for certain crimes, i.e. to consider some other ways, the possibility that this repressive system, i.e. criminal policy, should be determined differently, and that the level of punishment to be determined and imposed, would be appropriate to the illegalities of his actions, what he did, and why he is tried, or why he will finally be convicted. There have been a lot of objections here in the area of economic activity, i.e. for crimes in this area. Of course, if we look at our reality and the public that appeared in both the transformation and today in the economy and certain criminal proceedings that are being initiated, it is quite clear that the subject and the area of economic crime deserves special attention. However, I return to the fact that we have had several years in our criminal law a number of criminal acts that can be committed under the area of economic crime, that major penalties are foreseen. However, for example, the realization of all these things, the success of all these things does not give us the right, or it is shown that when we prescribe a criminal act again, the question of how the work will be carried out. Therefore, the Government estimates that, in addition to these criminal acts which have been received and bribed in economic business, it is necessary to finally come up with a description of the beings of these crimes, which have been taught by these experience so far, that there are not always dissonant tones, that we have prescribed criminal offences on the one hand, and that the system is not working because the criminal authorities, the state attorney's office or ultimately the court has not applied this provision enough, that is to say that there is no conviction for a criminal offence and that, or the person who was the suspect is released. Of course, when we have an impression or when it is presented in the media that someone is guilty, and there is such a case that he is released, then it is both an area and a field subject to other comments, etc. Therefore, I also think that in the area of economic business, this is why criminal law must as clearly as possible determine the parameters and there will be criminal offences in this area. That's it. I thank you in this first part, so we'll continue to argue further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13023	Thank you very much to the secretary of state. There are still 5 clubs and 12 individual representatives reported. At 2:00 P.M., we'll start the debate exactly as we agreed. I'm calling on all the committees who are now sitting down to try to finish their work so that at 14 hours after lunch, we'll all be ready. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13024	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work on the amendment law proposal and supplementation of the Penal Code, two draft laws. It is on behalf of the HDZ club, the respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13025	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have two proposals to amend the Penal Code, one proposal to the government, one proposal to a colleague from the SDP. I would say that both proposals are high-quality, both based on scientific and professional principles, but there is a big difference because the government is going into a slightly smaller extent of amending the law while colleagues from the SDP are going into one broad and more extensive amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. I'll say something first about the government's proposal, and then on the SDP proposal. It encourages the Ministry of Justice of the Government to give us once again a quality and good material, because it gives hope that the situation in the judiciary could change in due course for the better, and what is really necessary for our wishes and ambitions to access the European Union from this law is indeed seen to be based on scientific and professional principles of work and as a consequence, I believe that when it is in another reading that it will not suffer any significant and significant changes. The aim obviously of this law is to comply with our legislation with European Union legislation and de facto the largest part of the change concerns the implementation of the obligations undertaken under various international conventions. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union has made a commitment to co-operation in the prevention and prevention of criminal and other activities, in particular in relation to the prevention and control of illegal migration, the prevention of money laundering and income acquired by criminal acts, illegal production and trafficking in drugs, trafficking in human beings, corruption, counterfeiting of money, smuggling, illicit arms trafficking and terrorism. Therefore, by applying and harmonising our law with signed international conventions, we see that new offences are also being introduced in our criminal law, we see that certain descriptions of the existing criminal offences are being specified and are also being brought into line with international conventions, which is actually good. So we have the Convention on Cybercrime where a new piece of computer falsification and computer fraud has been introduced. Then we have a Corruption Convention where we now have two new acts of bribery in economic business and bribery in economic business. It also introduces certain works and precisions based on the international convention against recruitment, use of payments and training of mercenaries. Also based on the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings, we have a criminal act of banning the cloning of human beings. When we see this, we actually see that the development of society, the development of science, the development of technology also brings some negative consequences, and through these very crimes that have been introduced as new to our legislation, we see that as a society we must react and sanction and act negatively. It is significant that this law introduces two new crimes, which are illegal construction and illegal exploitation of the mine treasure. I believe that it is important to say something about it, because we will see the next point of the Law on the Communist Economy that this government has decided indeed on very serious measures to combat illegal construction, which is very important because illegal construction has indeed taken a major wave and I think it is very good to go with such measures and criminal legislation to combat such a phenomenon in society. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The penal law that speaks of media freedoms has also made certain changes in the government's bill of law. The provision of article 48 was deleted, meaning the responsibility of the editor-in-chief, and Article 203 was a little bit better formulated and de facto we are now getting that not as it has been so far that the journalist has to prove his innocence but actually has to be a state attorney, the prosecutor has to prove whether, guilty journalists of committing a defamation. I repeat this law once again, we consider it truly professional, truly quality, but there is one thing I would still like to stress here, and it is related to the criminal act of command responsibility. It is equally defined in the proposal of colleagues from the SDP and the Government. Article 2 states: The persons referred to in paragraph 1 were the commanders who had to know that the subordinates were about to commit one or more of the offences referred to in Articles 156 to 167 of this Act, so due to the failure of due diligence, they did not take all reasonable measures to prevent those offences from being committed. I believe, however, that this may have been the definition that those persons should have known that, since this first reading might have considered a different definition, it might have been that it would have been said at the beginning that the persons in command were listed in paragraph 1 of this article who had missed due diligence, so they did not know that the subordinates were preparing to commit one or more criminal offences and therefore failed to take all reasonable measures to prevent the execution of those acts from being punished. This "must know" I have to admit a little bit bothers me, and it seems to me that one pretty hard definition that starts here is so here's a suggestion that maybe the proposer by the second reads eventually think about it or maybe it's already part of some international standards. As far as the SDP proposal is concerned, I have already said it is also very professional, it is also based on scientific principles, but it goes significantly wider, it actually regulates the extension of the issue of limitations. It goes to one tightening of criminal sanctions and the Government's proposal, the government's argument shows that in the second phase of the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act after further analysis has been carried out to determine whether it is necessary to go with the extensions of time-limits, whether it is necessary to tighten criminal sanctions. The SDP colleagues also propose to impose a sentence of life imprisonment, and I believe that it should be attached to the government's opinion and not go perhaps quickly, because the extension of the deadlines is outdated as long as it would allow us to sanction some of the behaviors that have been, but again it may be an alibi for the failure of the rule of law and I must acknowledge more that our bodies and institutions work more effectively, work faster than to do potentially their slow, inefficient action, we are going to extend the deadlines of limitations. So the HDZ Club will support the government's proposal. I repeat, once again, we find it highly professional, a very competent task force has been working on it. and we also support the principle that the amendments to the legislation go into two phases and that it really is because it is a very sensitive segment to approach it in a studio way, in a way that I consider very detailed analyses that they have for the consequence of then such proposals as this one, which I consider to be professional. And we will support this proposal sent by the government. And I say once again we are glad that they come from the government to the Justice Department at the beginning of the term of office really good laws and this gives hope that the judiciary will indeed, for the judiciary, come much better days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13026	Thank you. On behalf of the Club Libre, Honorable Representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13027	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the LIBRE Club, let me refer to some of the key questions in our court, not to a more detailed debate on a series of issues that may have been earned, but simply there is no time and therefore the orientation here is what we think are the key issues, and we think that this is from a general part of the problem of time-consuming deadlines, and, of course, from a particular part of that criminal part of that crime or, in particular, the criminal part relating to the area of the economy and the slander, so if we get to say something about the criminal part of drug abuse. Well, good. As far as deadlines are concerned, we think we are more prone to the SDP proposal, actually to the government's proposal that passed the first reading, and here it is essentially on the second reading. So, you, according to this proposal, the extended deadlines of limitations appear as indirect or direct, these directly with a natural direct extension, and indirect with an increase in the specific maximum of penalties, and in some criminal acts, what is important to us primarily in economic offences. And these proposals were still in the first reading, and later, especially in the expert literature, they encountered certain disputes and can be accepted, of course they can be countered. In fact, what's generally or generally an argument, it's that here it's that if these new deadlines are introduced, they're actually out of date, actually about unwarranted tightening of repression. And the second objection we just heard, then it's about a possible delay in court proceedings. And it's true that the repression will be sharpened. But that doesn't mean that's why it's unwarranted. So, that doubt can be precisely in whether it's justified or unwarranted. But as we are representatives of numerous statutes, it is far more important that they are citizens of our Croatia. And the causes of these obsolescences are multiple. However, it is most important, it has shown the caselaw, the shortfall of deadlines, and especially for this, as we say, the easiest criminal acts, and then the deadline is two years old. If the purpose of the punishment remains to affect citizens' awareness of the justice of punishment, and the public is disappointed, we are not dissuading that it is indeed disappointed. Not by punishing some forms of crime and not being left in a general place, whose form of crime, then it should be said primarily by those associated with conversion, this is said to be related to conversion. But they're connected except for the conversion to a lot of other things. What to say to the fact that the traditional Osijek industry has failed, not just because of war destruction, but because of these connections. So then there's this story of a justifiable or unwarranted increase or an extension of an outdated deadline that suddenly gets some new content. And that's where mostly the old criminal persecutions are now taking place, and our opinion is that it's just justified to extend the limitation deadlines, if nothing else sounds very comforting that something like this doesn't happen again. But it's where it can fit on the tail of literally each of the beasts, if possible, especially the beasts. After all, the sense of limitations is that it is not punishable for a criminal offence if it is forgotten and no longer experienced by a social person. And can anyone dare say that with economic crime in Croatia it happened? We haven't forgotten that crime in the economy. Whoever says he forgot, should at least have some nightmares. You'd have to have a little conscience when you look in the mirror and face it, that there was crime and there was it, and then, of course, you'd say about it once again, ageing deadlines can be completely different and it has to be completely different. The team may be within the limits of what the European experience knows. Here's a little illustration. The limitation deadlines under the German Penal Code are 30 years for criminal acts with a prescribed life sentence, 20 years for criminal acts with a prescribed sentence of 10 years. 10 years for criminal cases with a prescribed sentence of 5 to 10 years and 5 years for criminal cases with a prescribed sentence of 1 to 5 years. Three years for other crimes. Here's actually an opportunity to set up a reliable orientation that then says, yeah, there's experience, let's reach out for it and because experience is positive, but especially because domestic context in terms of the need for criminal persecution on this issue is really clear. Almost unequivocally clear. Of course, in the context of this case-law issue, is it important to answer the question, can the extension of time-limits also work backwards? Of course it's one of the principles of criminal law that can't happen, there's no retroactive action. But let's not just stick to the principle, but let's work it out and see what it really looks like. So there are some situations that need to be distinguished. If an extension of the limitation period has occurred only because of an increase in the prescribed penalty, such an extension may not act reversibly, that is the principle, since even such an increased penalty cannot be applied re-applyed. In that case, there is a starting date to the prescribed penalty at the time of the initiation of the criminal offence. But if, at the same level of the prescribed sentence, longer limitation deadlines are foreseen, at the time of its entry into force, the statute of limitations will also not be allowed. But where the statute of limitations took place has become impunity and the perpetrator has the right to trust in the state that she will no longer pursue it. Destroy the evidence, for example. which is in his favor. However, if the age - old novel is still in progress at the time, the limitation period for the novel will have to be applied despite the fact that the perpetrator is more unfavourable. In that case, impunity has not occurred and the perpetrator has no right to calculate with its performance, especially if he is aware that due to possible interruptions of the statute of limitations, he cannot know in advance when it will occur. That's exactly what our punishment is about. So much for time-consuming deadlines with a message that we want to send clearly. It is necessary to make time-limits obsolete when it is orderly, where this is legally permissible for the protection of one of the basic social values. What's that? The constitution is protected? So, justice. As I have initially said from a special section, we are particularly interested in one criminal act that appears in the proposal and in the first reading of the former government and now the SDP proposal appears as some kind of new criminal part of the economy. And we need to replace some existing crimes and think of it in a much more successful way. In this context, the current government's proposal suffers some criticism. But of course, both proposals can do what we expect, actually make a real improvement. Therefore, several master parts under this proposal should be removed from unconscious economic business, abuse of powers in economic business, etc., and replaced by a criminal part of the abuse of trust. And we think that's good because that's what we're actually adapting to new relationships with, those relationships that are characteristic of market relations, and we're leaving in that sense those institutes or those crimes that are already in this area that are pulling a deep lead from some, not with any political connotation of the socialist period. And this new criminal act rests simply on the idea that all those who have been given the care of other people's property must carry out this duty knowingly otherwise be held accountable for the damages caused on that property, whether by their acquisition or by other means. The criminal act primarily includes the criminal activity of management structures in companies, so members of the management of the stock companies, directors of companies with limited liability of members of the supervisory boards. And what is particularly important in our court but also in the care of other people's property that doesn't add to any legal person. And as predicted, the work has two forms. A fundamental for which a sentence of 6 months to five years is provided and qualified with a sentence of 3 to 15 years. The question of whether the new law is lighter is simply because it abolished several acts. No, I don't. We will resolutely argue that this is not the case and that, in fact, because of the modernity, the answer to the Croatian context requires that the solution be accepted. It is modern not as a general place, it is modern precisely because it responds to the context. And that ultimately passed on the experience from the German Penal Code. As far as slander is concerned. Let me say this on behalf of the club. The right to free expression of thought and the right of the public to be informed of all relevant events versus the right to protect honor and reputation can never be of more serious interest when it comes to conscious lies. It is otherwise necessary to assess the situation where the perpetrator does not know whether the factual claims he makes are true or not. This is exactly the situation in which journalists are most often found and this is what this subject is about, which conveys certain information whose truth cannot be determined. Such behaviours as set out in a model of foreign law should include a special criminal act. Or a particularly easy form of libel. And then it would consist of carrying out or passing on factual claims that could save someone's honor or reputation but that they don't know whether they're true or not. And such a criminal act is subject to a prerogative that everyone also considers the victim to be good until proven otherwise. To assess whether a journalist has acted in good faith in a particular case, not with the aim of harming someone's honor and reputation, it is important, among other things, to verify the information, because the permitted risk of untrueness and factual claims should be taken to the least possible extent. The requirements for verifying information must be, that is the essence of reason. Because imposing too strict rules could significantly make it difficult or even disabling public information that, in addition to accuracy, needs to be met by a demand for timeliness, i.e. currentity and given the significant differences between slander and other qualified forms from which it originates and divergence in the application of the grounds of exclusion of illegality. For these crimes, the solutions proposed by the Ferend deleges in the direction of the distinction of the difficult and easier form of slander and the exclusion of illegality only for the easier form deserve approval. And we support exactly that kind of solution. As Colloquial says about the drug problem, we want to show ourselves as follows. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The penal code, I think, should support that proposal that comes to us from the government. The problem, with regard to the possession of intoxicating drugs without the intention of placing on the market, the possession of a certain amount of drugs for personal use alone may be satisfactorily addressed by applying the applicable provisions: material, insignificant part referred to in Article 28. Penal Code and Procedural Code, applying the principle of criminal prosecution, criminal law. Transferring the possession of intoxicating drugs for its own use in the area of criminal law could contribute to the dispensation of the criminal justice system, as statistics show that this is the very form of abuse of intoxicating drugs is the most represented in the case law. But on the other hand, such a solution could have a negative impact on the effectiveness of criminal persecution in other cases. In fact, it is difficult to expect that offenders in connection with the possession of intoxicating drugs, without the intention of being placed on the market, would appear as witnesses whose testimony would be applicable in criminal proceedings against persons involved in the sale and production of intoxicating drugs not only because of fear but also because they regularly supply them with intoxicating drugs for personal use. And the final problem in determining whether a certain form of intoxicating drugs is intended solely for personal use or for further sale remains the same in both possible models of regulation of this issue. We think that both proposals, and the SDP proposal, read the former government's proposal from first reading as well as the government's proposal, the current government should support them, recommend them for a second reading, as well as recommend that these two proposals try to do with as little political intervention as possible the proposal, the whole proposal, the final proposal, which will then really enable that the Penal Code that should actually appear in Croatia. It may sound like a phrase, but if it appears in that part, and in particular it is important for economic crimes with the way that it remains the possibility of persecution, and that it is realistic, then I think that we can expect the realization of what is so important and the principle already mentioned, the principle of justice. On the contrary, it would mean that there is an intervention of political will contrary to the principle of justice. That wouldn't be good, of course. In that sense, Club Libre supports both bill proposals for a second reading with proposals as we have said in our presentation. Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13028	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Josip Vresk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13029	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Croatian Peasant Party Club will, of course, support both of these proposals, given that the laws are in the first reading, but I must say here that I am truly sorry that because of the error in the procedure of adopting a KZ novel from last year, the Constitutional Court abolished that law because it was a good law and this SDP proposal was actually on the trail of the law. But what's there is. As far as the government's proposal is concerned, we believe that in the current situation, Croatian material criminal law can be updated in three ways. One of these 3 ways is simply to take over the criminal law of obligations that the Republic of Croatia has from 6 conventions that are listed in the assessment of the situation and the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court which is also mentioned here. Another way is to nominate Croatia's criminal legislation, in addition, can be done by one medium option to go through intervention measures, so that the regulation of those socio-socially dangerous behaviors as criminal offences can be prescribed and for them by prescribing penalties that presently pose a serious social danger, which seems to have been done here. And the third way is to make one whole modern new criminal law, which is, of course, a long and hard job. In its own assessment of the situation, the Government shall, as a proposer, take all 6 conventions, therefore, and the Statute of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, whose provisions have been translated into its proposal and, of course, intervene with several new offences, and I will later discuss one criminal offence called illegal construction referred to in Article 252a. I'm going to say something first that I think of old age. Of course, some are, and I think the government gentlemen know very well, the famous Supreme Court decision of 1983, which seems to me to be on the trail of what counterpart Herman said and which actually differs when they extend the laws of obsolete deadlines, i.e. Whether the limitation deadlines are running at a time when the novel is being carried out or not, and I think it's a good guideline that should serve the government to draft a final bill. Of course, I'll say something about old age by mentioning each other's regulations. The Ministry of Justice, as far as I know, has formed an extremely high-quality task force currently working on draft law on criminal proceedings. Of course, I don't want to say that our current law on criminal, criminal proceedings is the only one responsible for the fact that so many of the statutes of limitations are happening, but it is one of the reasons for such a situation. We believe that along with this, with the Penal Code of Emergency, we should urgently cross and draw up a whole new Criminal Procedure Act because the law we currently have does not meet the needs of the state or its repression apparatus. I will only read to you a sentence from the preamble of the Rome Statute, where it literally stands, that is, the obligation of the Republic of Croatia: “Confirming that the most severe crimes concerning the International Community as a whole must not remain unpunished and that effective prosecution of their perpetrators must be ensured through measures” and so on and so on. So it's obvious to put an emphasis on effective prosecution. We know in what state our Code of Criminal Procedure is in, and we hope that the Croatian Parliament will receive a newer quality proposal for this law, which I hope is still working on. What I want to say is when the government started this, this middle, middle way so in another way, middle option by accepting the provisions of international conventions and prescribing some other criminal acts that might still have a chance to do this, it's not good, and the government didn't do it well, which is maybe in the assessment of the situation by using data from the Ministry of the Interior first and then from the state's attorney's office and courts should actually intervene in this law in something that represents a major problem, which is the safety of road traffic. Of course it's not necessary because these are generally known data to present here data, numerical indicators of what the situation is like. From what I hear, a new Law on the Basics of Road Safety is being prepared, or as it will already be called, I don't know, but I believe that by intervention in criminal law, criminal law should also have helped solve this problem. I talked to a professor from law school the other day who calls it terror. I don't want to use such a hard word, but the fact is that there are problems and the fact is that these problems will not be solved only by amending the Road Safety Act. It is therefore necessary to intervene in this Law. I agree with the SDP's proposal to impose a life sentence. If I am not mistaken in 1990, we have taken a good stand by abolishing the death penalty from our criminal law. It's humanity, she's been leading us into taking that attitude, and that's good. However, we did not find a suitable substitution for that generic prevention and this appropriate substitution is a life sentence, because the punishment of a long-term prison cannot be an institution to end a death sentence. And finally, I'm just going to say one more thing about the criminal offence of the illegal construction referred to in Article 252. I could still understand if the crime against construction would only be what is contained in paragraph 2 of that article. The term of this article shall be as follows, the criminal offence referred to in paragraph 1 shall be considered as construction without a building permit. It shall take effect on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union and on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. He'll be punished for six months to five years in prison. The joke on the side of the room is the way it is, every intrusion into the state's space has to control it. And any non-compliance with the rules in that area must be adequately sanctioned. However, our constitution allows the return of certain provisions of individual laws. There's one problem with criminal law. I mean, what I'm saying is that actually, to those who have been illegally built so far, until the day of entry into force of this law, nothing is actually going to happen under this law. They will be subject to administrative proceedings by a misdemeanor, but under this law nothing will happen to them. That's why it won't happen to them because at a time when they did it, it wasn't prescribed as a criminal offence in criminal law. I'm not sure that prescribing a crime of illegal construction is a good way to solve problems so far, and that any threat to punishment, reduce number or simply prevent any further unlawful action. And I'll say it and why. Regardless of the amount of penalties prescribed, and the penalty for illegal construction is high, I believe that court practice and that's good, and may I be forgiven by the judges for getting involved in the jurisdiction of the judicial authority, go as always moving will move cautiously. So it's not going to be a maximum penalty, it's going to be more likely, because it's not about the return, you know, nobody's building an illegal 10 times. A minimum penalty shall be prescribed or alert measures will be prescribed. And now I wonder if that's going to work. I know that there are problems with inspection services at the end of the day, Minister Matulović Dropulić said that there is indeed an open competition in her ministry for the reception of construction inspectors and that no one will answer. That's a problem. But it's not a problem that can be solved through criminal law. I'm not sure that one of the states in our environment that even one state in the Union has this kind of crime. That illegal construction is a crime. I'm saying I'd understand if it were a criminal offence under paragraph 2 or if it were a criminal offence that someone who was building an illegal building expressed after a warning or after being punished in a mistrial. However, something else will happen to the courts, and I am not sure what is stated in Article 252 that only the one who does not have a building permit is going to enter the area of criminal responsibility. I'll tell you why. That would be good if it didn't become a criminal offence not to report a crime. This criminal offence is being prosecuted on official duty, so the prosecution of the capital offence is being carried out by the State's Attorney's Office. This is a serious crime. Imagine a situation where someone who builds has a few neighbors. Which all in that administrative procedure were party to obtaining a building permit. All of these people know because you need to know, that it's a criminal offence and that a still valid article that requires not to report a crime as a criminal offence is, in fact, all those in the field of criminal responsibility. But let it not discourage the government I was just trying to help. I think the government for the government would be much better off eradicating this article or if it were to be made public or because it thinks it will solve this problem, that it would leave this provision, then as a criminal act, it would be the only thing contained in paragraph 2 of that article. The Croatian Peasant Party will, in that sense, issue a final proposal if the amendment remains this way for the Croatian Parliament. For the time being, he will support both proposals in his first reading, hoping that the government will send a new law on criminal proceedings with this law as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13030	Thank you. Club HSLSA and DCA respected deputy president Djurdja Adlesic. Which part will one part and the other part will be respected by a respected wartime officer, Mato Brletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13031	Thank you very much, Mr. President, so we have before us a draft law on amendments and additions to the law that has already experienced a number of amendments. Even one failure that the Constitutional Court abolished. And evidence that it is a complex topic is the administration of a number of amendments and additions that show that it will probably need access to a more recent, whole draft of the law. And with such a newer design, there is certainly an opportunity for opposition proposals to find their place. This is mainly about harmonising with European legislation. These changes are not limited to agreements that Croatia has ratified, therefore to those stemming from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Already, there are some changes in the zoom that have been held necessary to address public slander, abuse of intoxicating rust, economic incrimination, some new forms of criminal offences that require the necessary incrimination or correction of penalties. This is why the government probably intervened already in this bill. With regard to the fact that we hold that the laws must be of quality I will make here remarks that I think will come in handy on the non-final version of the law in order for the law to be better. Namely, in the area of drug abuse, experts warn that the unclear definition of the therapeutic community is. That it is necessary to define works that can or are more precise to define works that can be replaced by mandatory treatment in a rehabilitation home. And more specifically sanctioning escapes from stable homes. I will not particularly explain the need for precise normation of the issue of combating trans-national organised crime, since the existing provisions are often insufficient. Since there are new forms of occurrence then crimes such as human trafficking, especially women and children. Corruption, cybercrime, crime against humanity, cloning, responsibility, and the recruitment of mercenaries first placed in our Penal Code. I'd actually like to warn you about something that we've all been talking about these last few days, or it seems more whispered to me, but almost all of us are talking about it, and that's the part that's connected to cybercrime and the necessary protection of privacy not just public figures. This is where I really expect government representatives to tell us how or at least tell us what they're going to try to do to sanction that part. These days we all read about a case that fills the pages of our press and cover, it is, of course, a famous singer of Severini, but it is now just an example of how our privacy is actually completely unprotected, and it is necessary to regulate it by law. In fact, it seems to me that we are completely unprepared for all technical possibilities that the law does not sanction or inadequately sanction, because most of you colleagues and colleagues have cell phones that you can photograph not only here, but not just record your closest ones, you can do it on the beach without the knowledge of someone you film, and you can also do it in other objects and not just each of us, from public persons but from others can be found where his privacy is no longer protected. The sanctions that are foreseen so far I think they've been moving around for about a year, I'm afraid they're just stimulating, because they provide a great opportunity to earn, so I expect the authors of this law to answer what they're trying to do. I set that example because I hear you whisper about it mostly. I will draw attention to the part that is better decorated, which speaks of abolishing the guilt of the editor-in-chief and other persons referred to in Article 48. The criminal law, therefore, is about modernising criminal law because the responsibility of the editor-in-chief can be determined through a civil case anyway. We have all agreed so far that it was necessary to intervene in the area of economic crime, because international research unfortunately continues to say that Croatia is still classified among the countries with a high degree of corruption which certainly ruins our credibility on the international agenda, but it is also dangerous and the fact that it does not represent us as a serious partner in international affairs. We also welcome the introduction of a new criminal offence against the illegal exploitation of mine treasure, sanctioning and detection of protected witnesses, cloning human beings. We also believe that there was a need to sharpen the penalty for using symbols that glorify the symbols of totalitarian states, ideology, promoting racism, xenophobia, and calling for any form of hatred and impatience, although in young people I advocate primarily prevention. However, if we compare with Europe, I must say that our sentences are often milder, but perhaps judges are more prone to giving lower sentences, and it is precisely in certain cases, such as abuse, rape, drug trafficking, criminal organisation and similar acts that the penalties should be tightened, but also with the recommendation of judges that in these cases, maximum punishment should be decided more frequently. I left behind something that we talked about, some of us, and in the last term, it seems to me that they have spoken here often and others from the opposition, but also positions, these are stricter penalties, i.e. the necessity of stricter penalties for attacks on officials primarily on police officers. We witness more frequent such attacks often and fatal consequences, and when something like that happens then we give due attention, unreserved support, but here's a chance to sanction it now by law. I can remind you again of Officers Željko Murk and Milenko Vranjkovic, however, because of them and many others, we support the union's proposal to seek the strictest penalties for assaulting police officers and maximum penalties for killing police officers. But I think we should think about how to protect other people like market inspectors, tram drivers, and I'm afraid of teachers in class more and more often. In the end, I would like to say that we have made amendments that, if they do not enter into the law, we will propose later as joint amendments, which are actually entering the area of the so-called area. computer crimes, which is making computer viruses. Namely, computer viruses or related programs are increasingly a threat to the functioning of computer networks and systems so that thousands of new computer viruses are produced annually by some of whom they say the most successful can be occupied by millions of computers and cause damages that are measured by tens of millions of dollars. These are really the problems that our judiciary has been facing so far, and it has not been adequately sanctioned, and I hope that through one other law and through the discussions that we are having here, we will fix this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13032	Thank you, dear colleague. Continuing fellow Brletić on behalf of the HSLS club DC.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13033	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The club of the Democratic Centre of HSLS supports amendments and additions to the Penal Code. The harmonisation of Croatian legislation with European legal rules is one of the priorities of the regulatory institutional approach of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. This is about a series of measures and procedures to adapt our legal system to the acquis of the European Union. There are a number of areas to adapt: asylum, migration, organised crime, drug abuse, extradition, etc. Any changes and adjustments to EU regulations should lead to the first stability of institutions that ensure democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and minority rights. Second, the existence of an effective market economy. Third, the ability of the national economy to withstand market pressure. Fourthly, it shall be able to take on the obligations of membership implemented by the political, economic and monetary actions of the European Union. In criminal legislation, harmonisation is headed towards adapting domestic positive legislation to international conventions in organised crime, cybercrime, corruption, the fight against international terrorism and the fight against its financiers and the harmonisation of provisions in the group of war crimes cases with the provisions of the Rome Statute. In this presentation, I would refer to several socially dangerous phenomena that are now becoming and getting accurate, complete, modern and unequivocal definitions. The crime against humanity now comprehensively defined and complete with command responsibility and recruitment of mercenaries reminds us of great tragedies in the past and in the recent past. A blade of criminal responsibility would hit the right place. As soon as possible, we must be able to prosecute the charges of the Hague prosecution against Croatian citizens in order to ensure a fair and legal trial we create material legal frameworks for which no Croatian citizen will be exposed to the will of anyone. We will show that we are able to distinguish good behavior from socially dangerous and thus preserve the positive atmosphere of the Homeland War on our own. There is a great battle to be fought against the perpetrators of crimes from the new sphere, the abuse of computer techniques. There are no days in the world when an incursion into important computer systems does not occur. Often, perpetrators of such acts are minors who are extremely good at information knowledge, who are once again various criminal circles of abuse in achieving their goals. In this sphere, various forms of criminal activities occur, from giving false information and misleading to jeopardizing computer systems, state bodies and large companies with a view to achieving great material benefits. The illegal construction so far based on the Construction Act had the character of a violation, and now it is climbing to the highest level of social danger, becoming a criminal offence. Starting from the building entity for this crime could be tied up as a responsible investor, the contracting authority, the contractor of direct access to construction. We are witnessing that in every part of the Republic of Croatia there are a large number of objects that have been illegally built, which are all measures effective in such cases. The recent past has often approached the destruction, i.e. the removal of such facilities, in order to decide on the removal of the body of the state administration should now be subject to criminal application, and through the procedure to establish criminal liability and the measure to eliminate the consequences of this offence. The consequences must be determined in relation to detailed urban plans, and we are well aware that territorial urban plans do not exist or have not been revived in many areas. Then there's the dilemma about why you're breaking down. That's enough of the crash. Let us try to implement a clear position that should be removed only by the object that has been illegally built. Unless there is a possibility of its inclusion in urban solutions and directly endangering public goods or negatively affecting the human environment. We must admit, however bad it sounds, that Croatia is one of the leading countries in transition when it comes to corruption. Corruption has affected all pores and effective anti-corruption measures need to be found. The Criminal Legal Convention on Internal Corruption accurately determines active and passive corruption. The responsibilities of legal and natural persons by international cooperation, mutual legal assistance and extradition are extended to the Convention on the Prevention of Bribery of Foreign Officials in International Commercial transactions. Although there were no obligations under the Conventions, the Republic of Croatia has imposed a criminal liability on legal persons, for many crimes, and for acts in the area of corruption, and this legislative procedure is a contribution to the fight against one of the most widespread crimes. Today terrorism is the greatest enemy of peace in the world. Terrorism through victims and violence sends certain political messages, requires and evaluates. The biggest terrorist attack and history took place on September 11, 2001. An attack on New York, Washington, and recently in Spain. The terrorist organisation that carried him out has its own organised and well-funded terrorist group in 60 countries of the world. It became clear that terrorism was becoming the greatest danger of peace and progress that could no longer be done and that it must not close its eyes. We are witnessing that international terrorism is a latent threat that contains the victims of the innocent, and that armed struggle is not an effective and true way of fighting. To date, there is no unique definition of terrorism in the world, and only 20% of the countries in domestic legislation have found a criminal act on international terrorism, and others find its occurrence through the existing crimes of endangering security and the work of killing top state officials. The harmonisation of the crime of international terrorism with the European Union's Framework Decision introduces express objects elements of this part and alternative purposes of serious threat to the fundamental, constitutional, political or economic values of a foreign country or an international organisation, i.e. the cause of public intimidation. Almost doesn't have to spend a lot of words if our European idea is in perspective this is another alka in that chain and no one well-intentioned is going to ask this kind of novelty of domestic criminal legislation. We just need to be aware of what awaits us in the implementation, i.e. in effective action in the application of this criminal legal regulation and in the achievement of cooperation in estradition with the countries of the International Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13034	Thank you, colleague Brletic. It is on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected colleague, Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13035	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have two texts of the amendment and addition of the Penal Code which has already been said to have both been based on the profession, that they are made of quality and that each of course has its own good and probably also its own bad side. Yesterday, Mrs Anticevic-Marinovic, on behalf of the promoter, highlighted Professor Novoselc's contribution to this extensive proposal, and I also thank him for his professional assistance. But I would also say that for the Government's proposal, as far as I know, there is also an expert working group headed by one of the professors, Professor Horvatic, and he should be thanked too, not only by the Faculty of Law, but also by very often by very selfless cooperation and actually by working and spending their time without any or with a very modest fee. But let's get back to the suggestions. If we compare them and put them in one graphic relationship, we'll see that they overlap with one small part, that one smaller part is the part that the government has done autonomously in relation to this old proposal, and that one large part of this reform, let's just say, the KZ package exists only in the SDP proposal, that is, in the former Government's proposal. If we look at that, I'd say it's hard to agree with the conclusion that the Prime Minister said it was reform law. It's about one quality good law, and the reform will probably just follow the rights in phase two. For what? Because the most sensitive areas, apart from the application of International Criminal Law, are not actually contained in this proposal. Speaking of those innovations that should be praised in the Government's proposal, it is, of course, an application of International Criminal Law. In which I would say it is good to take those formulas that Croatia actually places itself in countries that have applied international criminal law in a neat way. I would also like to commend the new crimes that are not contained in the SDP proposal. First of all, recruiting mercenaries and other crimes, computer crime as arranged. As well as raising the penalty for certain crimes. Unfortunately, there are no important things. It's a shame that the second stage was left behind, because time was going, the question of limitations and the question of possible extensions, of course, become obsolete so that some of the particular economic actions would not escape justice. Furthermore, the difference in these two proposals regarding the confiscation of property benefits is seen in the fact that the Government's proposal does not take into account the settlement of the damages which I also do not think is good. Otherwise, every law, every norm has its own lifetime and so does criminal law norms, and it's obvious that one part of the criminal norms of the existing KZ, I'm talking about an existing without, given that it's a abolished KZ is actually a nonexistent one. So the good part of these norms actually ran over life. This is particularly true of economic offences. And I have to say, I'm sorry that this first stage hasn't solved the problem. I think it speaks enough of the fact that in Croatia, we came to a level of 50 to 60 thousand criminal charges a year, which end somewhere in December with 19.5 thousand convictions. Which means that less than one third or somewhere around one third of the case ends with a conviction, which, of course, tells us that criminal reporting has become a national sport. But that one part of the applicants, including those who are professionally involved in the persecution of criminal acts, were not found to be in the same way, or were not adequately perceived by both criminal law norms and compatible with events in public and in life. There are several important things that should be pointed out in particular. I think it's a shame that it would be a good idea, because given the reality in mind, it's obvious that this proposal will be voted upon, to introduce a sensitive piece of protection of labour rights. We have this criminal act, and it does not cover some of the most frequent abuses that workers are exposed to today, who for no reason do not receive their wages, which do not pay contributions and would be good to strengthen their protection. Furthermore, it is a pity that there are no crimes in the government's proposal, which is the former 150a. abolish, enhance fascist, narcissistic and other totalitarian states of ideology and promote racism and xenophobia. Furthermore, I am not quite convinced that in this time of honor protection and the reputation of citizens is one of the important tasks, we see also some of the latest events because of the power of the media, that incrimination, incriminates the word "just harm someone's reputation and honor". Because such a clean motive to only harm itself, and if there is no other parallel motive, it will be really hard to find. It is a shame and I don't know what kind of message our legislator sends to the local public, but also to the international when he releases an earlier part of the compensation provided to help the perpetrator of the crimes against the values protected by international law. You know all Croatia is exposed to suspicions, including pressures, because it allegedly protects individual fugitives suspected of war crimes. And I think missing this kind of incrimination sends the wrong message to both the domestic and the international public. Of those things that are good in the Government's proposal and are not present in the SDP proposal, it is a criminal act to reveal the identity of the protected witness referred to in Article 305. This is a criminal part compatible with, of course, all those measures introduced by the judiciary in this reform for the efficiency of the judiciary. One of the biggest shortcomings in the Government's proposal, the good things contained in the SDP proposal is the definition of a criminal organisation in Article 89. In article 89, a criminal organization is about the economic interest of members of a criminal organization, which I personally don't think is good, because a criminal organization can exist on another basis, for example in terrorism, wouldn't an Arkan group be a criminal organization? I personally think that, and it would be good if this economic clause were shut down, because it limits the possibility of applying the provisions on criminal organisation and criminal groups to terrorist groups, and also to such groups that I hope we will never have a chance in Croatia again. Like this Arkanov, for example. Looking at these economic crimes, it's obvious that the most time has run over them, and I really hope that in the second phase of work on KZ, economic crime will experience rooted reforms. What concerns me is part of the argument that the government rejects is actually part of the proposal set up by the SDP, because it says it is afraid that there will be a lack of identity of the parts already committed and new descriptions and that this could happen that a part of the perpetrator is actually being released. I think that's a pretty dangerous logic. For the reason that there will never be a change in the criminal code. I think that the change that was previously proposed and discussed at numerous seminars and judges and state lawyers has shown that a solution like this that we have taken over from German law actually drinks the water we would say and that this fear that one number of perpetrators could remain beyond the reach of criminal law has not actually been established and that a little more interpretation and creativity, of course, coming out of the legal framework actually solves all these problems. Finally, in the end, once again on behalf of the SDP Club, I would say that we appreciate one and another proposal, that one other proposal is professionally justified, that we are a little sorry that the Government did not go a step further, but if they have estimated that more analysis of more expert discussions is needed, of course we appreciate it. And, of course, we will support our proposal, if we do not naturally discuss this proposal, we will also support the government's proposal to bring about these changes to the KZ. And after these general provisions, we have, of course, some questions and problems in practice about what fellow Filipovic will do.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13036	Continuing on behalf of the SDP Club, respected counterpart Mirko Filipovic. Here's my colleague Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13037	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. This is how I listened to the presentation of my predecessors from various clubs, and I find it not good that the assembly is half empty, because the Penal Code is one of the most important things about Croatian society, much more important and far and neglected than the other things discussed here. When the issue of bickering is political, of which citizens have no benefit, the assembly is full, spoken with a lot of heat, and the most important things, because without the Penal Code we will not have a legal state. Now I'm just going to list some things, unlike the previous exhibitions that were more general. Can we even talk about the Penal Code or the Sanctions and ultimately the Justice in the following cases? Srdjan Mladjan to all known Sisak monster, killed three people among other officers, father of two children, a proven hostage situation had a kidnapping, proved to be at least five bank robberies, and by law enforcement he will come out at the latest, means that the maximum penalty of 32 years of life is respected, and that man will kill again as soon as he gets out. Because he said at psychiatric expertise that his only bullet was a drug in the head. The cure bullet in the forehead, excuse me. So it is a disaster, and be sure that it will affect Croatian society and stability and foreign investment and so on. Because without the Penal Code, I will repeat once more there is no rule of law. Next case, the case in Makarska. Are we all equal before the law, which according to the Constitution should be guaranteed. Dad's son ran over 16 years old took his dad's BMW, ran two girls down, and was sentenced to a terrible punishment, sent to Switzerland for schooling, and eventually has to answer twice a week by a competent phone. I mean, it's a disaster. I wonder how that judge and what would be if it were his child and how your parents feel, just because, it's a fact and nobody can say it's not like that, his father is an extremely rich man who, of course, greased, which is another piece of evidence in favor of the fact that our judiciary is well corrupt, but it's not my problem, but it's still the problem for all of us and for us to solve it. That's right, I don't think anyone's gonna talk about it, but that's the way it is. On Jarun, the other day I was shocked too. Girl, I feel sorry for her personally. She's a 28-year-old young girl. She was dead drunk with a BMW in a pedestrian zone, killed two young people, got a four-year sentence. And after what happened, she was still complaining about too much punishment. And what about those people whose life went out and what was the verdict that someone was, that they were members of that judge's family? I mean, what kind of punishment are these? Well, in many countries, a longer military term is served than our average punishment for murder. It's so... That's right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Israel, it's a longer military time than in our country when you look at the statistical average of what people "put away" for a single murder, it's equal to a disaster. There. And without it, we're just not all equal before the law. So whoever has the money can get away with it, can... Advocacy, individual judges, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's a disaster. It's a fellow Special Forces case. Eight years ago, a man who was legitimateized with an official badge, a member of the special police force who spent the entire war on the ground, a man tells me what kind of state this is. We're banana states for the next reason. The man was so disappointed, the other day I had a meeting with him, he gave me a verdict, a rightful one, unfortunately, shot eight years ago, attempted murder, two shots fired in his head, a failure, then got shot in the leg, remained disabled, and what happened, nothing happened. The man who shot him multiple times, a drug user, but his easy circumstances were that he was under the influence of drugs. So what's the message of all this? So you get high on drugs, get drunk, and you'll get a reduced sentence. A specific case ended so that this fellow specialist, that the verdict was 10 months for the attempted murder of a police officer which changed in three years of conditions. That's enough talking about the rule of law. I think that cop in the front row needs to be leveled with the state. An assault on a police officer should be an attack on the state. As the United States of America, I had the opportunity to travel a lot, especially in America I also trained in Los Angeles at that time with people from that mileage who are not very prone to excessive law enforcement. But also those people know, I was just talking to one of them who just got out of prison, one of my... The partner was saying, I'll do anything, but the cop, I'll never go after him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The attacks themselves, resisting a police officer by withdrawing legal conjecture and what's happening to us is nothing. Old man, let me see your badge number, I'll take you off tomorrow, etc... Now that's what this Parliament's role is, and not that the proposals, whether government, or individual clubs, there are no MPs, they don't listen, they raise their hands, nobody thinks about it. Next, the Dubrovnik Bank, what's up with that? A billion German marks are gone, he ate a wolf donkey, so do you know how much money that is? And no one answered even the president of that bank's management, that's it. That's how it is, and so we need to get the criminal law done immediately, what's now out of date. The second thing that is outdated, hastily extended the limitation period, is very well described in the SDP bill's proposal. Obsolete, so how, I was at the end of a brutal beating, I accidentally found myself there, a man had broken three ribs and his arm was broken. It all went out of date, the man who passed it ate by a donkey wolf. He didn't show up twice in court, and the third time he got a warning before he was arrested, he showed up once, so he didn't, once, a lawyer, and again, in the end, it went into oblivion. And such things that, in normal democratic society, shouldn't happen. I believe that a life sentence is to be introduced especially for attacks, or for the murder of a police officer. Here's an example, an example from a junior case, a man who'll come out again and we'll carry everyone on our conscience, his next victim, that man will definitely kill because he really doesn't have a cure, these are such cases, and for such extreme cases, a life sentence should be imposed. And I don't think there's any argument about humanity because where human rights are for those people he killed out of pure, pure boredom. The range of punishments, the same thing that must change in criminal law. I'll just say the following, for severe bodily injuries from 3 months to 3 years, which is a clear practice saying that it usually goes on 6 months of conditions and that's it. Rape, well, that's amazing in the Penal Code, and it's valid to say that the sentence is 1 to 10 years old, so what kind of punishment is that for rape from 1 year of age? What does that mean? What's the message of this criminal code anyway? What's the message of a applicable criminal law? The attack on the official is from 3 months to 3 years, so whoever attacks the police officer will get three months, clearly this will be... conditions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a disaster. So according to these penalties that are currently being tried, Croatia's life is worth about as much as in the wild west, that's how it is. The convictions regarding the sale and distribution of drugs, we're witnessing, we can see through the means of public communication and TV and newspapers how to do this, here recently there were a couple of days ago for two kilos of cocaine the sentence was two years in prison. Well, that's clear what message that is... And ask God not to get caught for the first time because you're gonna make a profit of being in jail for a couple of years and when you get out, you're gonna get some rest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, when a man puts into the account that he can't make ten thousand kunas anywhere a month that's been in any company for eight hours, then it's better to go rest for two years in prison than it is, that's right. We don't have to laugh at anything. Then you'd better go to jail, rest for two years and have a few hundred thousand euros left in his account. Well, that's the message of the current criminal code and those judgments being passed. It's precisely because of these tremendously large range of punishments. And that's why I think passing a new criminal code is the priority of this House here. ... I'll just look back for the end, I don't see time's up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Traffic, it's not specifically about the Penal Code, but it's also about sanctions. Traffic culture, people say we're uncultural, we're not rude. On our roads is often Texas as long as it is known when it comes to Bregan, the car is stopped finely, the belt is tied, the lights are on, and they're out of date, which determines drastic punishments for assaulting a police officer, the introduction of life imprisonment, etc. So these were the arguments that I wanted to go out with and what it was going to be we'll see until the vote. Thank you. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13038	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote from a colleague... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13039	Thank you very much, Mr. President, as citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we can agree on much to agree with our colleague Filipovic, but as an advocate, I must correct part of the incorrect allegations about the Amendments and Supplements Act because my colleague was talking about minors, they are not in this part of the law that my colleague was talking about but they are subject to in the Law on Juvenile Courts, the Law for a younger adult, where the punishment of a long-standing law cannot be applied and that penalty is the longest of 10 years under that law. So in that part is the collation of what the colleague was saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13040	Thank you very much. We continue the debate, we continue the debate. We're continuing the debate. We're moving on to an individual debate because all clubs have used their right to speak. First in line is a respected colleague of Rade Ivas. Here you go, colleague Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13041	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The new Penal Code entered into force on January 1, 98, and since then, Croatia's new criminal law has been changed on several occasions. The first amendment of the criminal law was followed by a decision of the Constitutional Court which repealed the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 204. After that criminal law, the Penal Code was twice amended at the House of Representatives meeting on 14 December 2000 and thereafter on 24 May 2001. In 2003, more extensive amendments to the laws entered into force on 15 July 2003 were proposed. ... Slovenia connects with 80 per hour. Because you know what will happen when the Slovenian stops. And with us, there's just no respect for anything, and every morning I'm on Shalata at practice, under the sign of a ban on... Parking every morning is a hundred cars parked. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Every morning the bus with the kids passes, every morning there's a delay, a dozen cars going to reverse, etc.. No, if the police came here five days in a row to pay the fine, the situation would have changed dramatically. But there's just no such thing as will, no, I don't know what the problem is. Here I see that the time has expired, mostly all together I want to support this bill, the new Penal Code of Col. Anticevic, I believe that it is good, which increases the deadline for more extensive amendments to the laws that entered into force on 15 July 2003, and should have been applied since 1 December 2003, but by the Constitutional Court's decision of 27 November 2003, they have been abolished and are considered neither, nor has the law been passed. Today, we have two legislative proposals to amend and supplement the law on criminal, criminal, criminal law. We have so far found in the debate that both proposals are good, professionally made, that prominent criminal law experts participated in the drafting of these proposals. Unlike the SDP Club proposal, which is certainly more comprehensive and comprehensive but not in a comprehensive and consistent way, the government proposed to implement international convention law and property rights in two phases. In the first stage, it limited itself to changes to the Croatian Penal Code which are necessary and urgent, primarily to comply with international obligations which do not require a thorough scientific, practical and criminal, and criminal-political analysis and judgment on their justification. The second stage, which will pass or follow immediately behind this first one, will discuss changes in the incriminating of economic and organised crime, and strengthen the repression of, for example, the introduction of life imprisonment and the sharper payment of fines under the Government of Croatia programme, which highlighted the determination to ensure the necessary legal conditions for sanctioning criminal actions and their protection and definition, and organised crime. The government proposes a debate on its law to be implemented in two readings but the SDP Advocacy Club proposes the adoption of the Change and Complementary Act, claiming that there is a legitimate state and general public interest in the effective pursuit of all forms of crime, especially economic. It states that non-subscribing particularly economic crimes makes it difficult to affirm the principle of rule of law brought about by citizens in law and rule of law, negatively affect economic development and generally negatively affect social stability and general social security. But here we can argue that the problems of pursuing economic crime are less legal and more practical. For the results of the existing processes, it is not the law that is to blame, but in these proceedings there has not been sufficient evidence or other elements in the game. The 1997 Penal Code had sufficient effective instruments to prosecute crime and it is wrong for anyone who claims that changing the Penal Code can change the judiciary. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, in its amendments and additions to the Penal Code, carries out the so-called mini reform of the Penal Code, or proposes only the most necessary provisions and for several reasons. First, to bring the Penal Code into line with the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia. And this part of the reform is considered urgent and should be urgent. Secondly, for rejuvenation of the relationship between freedom of the media and criminal-legal repression for damage to reputation, honor, violation of honor and reputation. According to the SDP proposal, the sentence of prison would be lifted for all acts against reputation and honor regardless of whether it was committed through the media or not if there was no intention of defamation. On the other hand, the government does not propose to abolish prison sentences, but argues that the change in the provisions on criminal acts against honor and respect for journalistic slander has actually been decriminalised. The abolition of fines for journalistic slander, which the OSCE insisted on, and Croatian news society Government does not accept because no European state has done so and because this is about protection, respect and honor as fundamental human rights... Furthermore, in order to rejuvenate the possible changes in the incrimination of the possession of illicit intoxicating drugs by considering the need and criminal-political justification of change and criminal sanctions in criminal offences for the use of intoxicating drugs referred to in Article 173. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Penal Code considers that there is no criminal political justification to change the existing incrimination provided for in this article. It estimates as an unacceptable formulation that would allow incrimination, such as possession or production of small quantities, for personal, personal purposes only. Furthermore, due to the judgment of criminal political justification for interventions in the crimes of so-called economic crime, the Government is determined to apply, on changes in the part of the Penal Code relating to so-called economic, economic crimes, it found that, in that part of it, really significant interventions or major interventions made by existing changes in 2000. In the current Criminal Code, there is a set legal framework for the protection, incrimination of prohibited actions in the context of economic crimes, and criminal repression in this area is primarily a matter of detecting, processing and sanctioning economic crime. So consistent changes, consistent implementation of the applicable provisions of the law in practice. Not a hasty and unfounded change in the contents of incrimination and criminal justice frameworks. This also removes the urgency of further changes at this stage other than those relating to the alignment of our criminal law with international obligations under the fundamentals of convention law. And the final verdicts, judgments on the unscheduled application of criminal-judicial repression for some crimes for their special, actual execution. The Government considers it urgent to supplement the existing incrimination against the kidnapping offence provided for in Article 125. The penal code in the way that a qualified form of criminal offence is now prescribed in the event of a non-supervised death in the victim with the appropriate punishment. In the criminal offence of international prostitution, it is necessary to increase the penalty for establishing appropriate relations between prescribed penalties with human trafficking. Finally, the Government of the Republic of Croatia took into account all the proposed amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements discussed in the Croatian Parliament in 2003 as well as the opinions of professional working bodies, and it is indicated that this proposal is acceptable and therefore the representatives of the HDZ will support the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13042	Thank you, dear colleague Ivas. Replica co-worker Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13043	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to replicate in the part where the respected colleague Ivas said that the government's proposal is more comprehensive and as far as this part of the incrimination is concerned by adjustments to international conventions. I don't think that's true, or it's only true in one part, so I'm going to point that out. Not particularly because the SDP proposal also includes the distribution of pornographic material through a computer network where they are special, where we especially protect children. Thereafter, there is no ex post aid for perpetrators of criminal offences against the values protected by international law. Just prepare the shop, but not the post-aid. The only truth is that the government's proposal does not, that the government's proposal contains something that does not contain the SDP Club's proposal, which is a ban on cloning because it's really important and dangerous at this point, unlike better sanctioning economic crime, which the government feels is not yet a moment because it hasn't covered everything up yet. I guess that's why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13044	Thank you. Replica is also a colleague of Josipovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13045	So here I am, too, in a way, trying to look back at this thesis of compliance with the requirements attached to the European Union. That's not an exact claim. For the reasons that both proposals are good on this plan, what is true is the government's proposal in more detail, and I would say better, formulating a crime against humanity is a question of compliance with the Roman statutes, but not in a way that would change the assessment of compliance in fact of both proposals with the requirements of international law. The second thing I wanted to look at briefly is the issue of decriminalisation of drug possession, it's not really a question of legal nature, it's a matter of criminal political nature, an assessment which is a way to achieve certain goals better. What led the SDPe in decriminalization was the fact that it was the victims who came under the threat of criminal repression and not those who were essentially criminals given if I said so. And the fact that it's about very young perpetrators who, for a relatively insignificant matter, because our courts don't exactly apply an institute of insignificant crime, in fact, they stay up to date all their lives because, as 17-year-olds or 16-year-olds, they own a small amount of drugs. No one controls drugs or wants it to be used but simply an approach to how to solve this evil is different from what they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13046	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Dear Coelga Marco Shirac has a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13047	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me to refer only to two articles in my exhibition, and this is the new article 252 and 261a, the first one regulates the issue against legal building and the second one is the exhibition of minieral raw materials. Without legal construction is a process and a problem that occurred about 30 years ago, and it has changed its character and its characteristics over the past 30 years. Well, in some ways, it conditioned that the state authorities and the judicial authorities are referring to this particular problem as well. The first ones were certainly resolving the social issue, resolving the issue of housing, to come today at a time when it was a classic case of an economic crime. Because that's why illegal construction is being carried out today. So let me give a briefer look at it all the time because there were fellow MPs in our exhibitions who appealed that we should have understanding of the minor minor deviations. I am convinced that we will continue to address small deviations in the building process of buildings through a misdemeanour procedure or administrative procedure in the competent institutions, the state. But this economic crime that's been taking a big swing lately in this activity you're supposed to solve by this law. The construction and devastation of Croatia began in the 1970s. Last century. As a consequence of the nationalization of the building land, in the heritage and cities of the city character, because traffic has been halted and practically construction of housing facilities mainly family houses has been prevented. We must remember that at that time industrialization is being carried out that our smaller settlements are moving to large towns mainly for employment. And that they then resolved their questions in such a way that they kipped cheap land in the suburban parts of the settlement and there without a building permit and without other permits, gadaded buildings. They were created by large cities all over the village as it is here in Zagreb Kozari Bok, and in Split hills of borders and others, and who was so over in all major cities of Croatia. It was indeed a time when in many citizens resolved their existential issue of housing, and then the government did not show enough concern for the system's measures to resolve such a matter. In the 1980s in the coast and on the islands and also in the continental part of Croatia, mass building of cottages and facilities for carrying out tourist activity appears. Thousands of buildings have been built, and it's mostly illegal. One part of the facilities was built on a maritime good, on water good in parks p riroda and in protected protectors. In some areas there are builders and citizens who do not have a permanent place in Croatia. Although we already have laws at our disposal at the time under the law that the competent authorities were able to contain the lawless construction of the government is not doing anything at all. The more guards were built, and many state-run facilities were built without permission that were subsequently legalized and I know many in the Republic of Croatia who have never been legalized. The special period we have to set aside for the past ten years has been the scene of illegal construction by capital owners, who are building to gain. It is built in attractive areas, where spatial plans are not foreseen for construction. Villas and residences and summer houses are being built. Thus, about 700 such buildings were built in the sub-Slemenic zone of Zagreb, and the famous Splits Marijan is especially desirable for the construction of a villa. Responsibilities here declare that no object of those 700 for which competent inspection of the conduct has the character of the social branch to resolve the housing issue. He mostly got that from a 400 square-square-house permit, so I extend it by one, six meters, so I extend it by one, six meters, and then I make one more floor. Well, of course, I'm jeopardizing all my neighbors and, plus, I'm building it in a protected area of many and without a building permit. So it's not just the case here in Zagreb and Split, but it's also in other places. no provisions on spatial plans shall be complied with, or spatial plans shall not be adopted in a timely manner, so that, in conjunction with local and state services, the branches in the premises intended for other purposes are carried out. The best example is in the town of Split, where housing projects are built today in Znjana, although this space is intended with a spatial plan to build tourist apartments and hotels. Already today we can conclude that the space... for tourist activity is forever lost. On the real estate market in some attractive areas where building spatial plans is allowed, increased demand for land and buildings that achieve an extremely high price that allows investors to achieve faster and greater profits and this is not disputed. However, this results in an increase in the construction of buildings in those areas without a building permit or under conditions which are not provided for in those permits. I think the time has come for this modern monster once and for all, to stop this modern monster once and for all in the Republic of Croatia. The inspection services must become effective and meet the tasks set. The destruction measures must be implemented and these criminal measures must be taken to prevent the lawless construction of buildings and... behaviour in the premises of all participants involved in the illegal construction, including foreign citizens and foreign companies. Such procedures are not allowed anywhere in Europe, high sentences are provided everywhere, prison sentences. I therefore support such solutions as are proposed in Article 251a, or 262.a, which relate to the exploitation of mineral raw materials because today it is done against the law only for the purpose of obtaining profits, and both nature and the environment and people and citizens living in the immediate environment are threatened. I therefore support the adoption of these two articles and the regulation of these very complex issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13048	Thank you, dear fellow Shirac. It's my dear fellow Stazic's turn. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13049	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd only talk about two things that the government's bill doesn't have, and it should be, and it's not quite clear why they're not there, because the explanation the government gives is not acceptable. First, the extension of the deadlines is obsolete. You see, we all know how our courts work, it's no secret, so I guess that doesn't have to prove it. Courts work slowly for various reasons. They're covered in files, and apparently there aren't enough judges, and they have these judges standards, they don't have those judges prescribed standards. Hundreds of reasons exist, hundreds of reasons why courts work slowly and fail to complete the files in time. It's just these days that the newspaper reports on the case of Judge Gredell, for whom the President of his court of the Judicial Council requires a discharge from the judicial duty due to negligence in the service. It wasn't a man who solved the files. He says he's been doing other business at the Judges' Association. He receives salary, high court salary from the state budget, from taxpayers' money. And why is she receiving it? So he can solve the files, not be active in the association. He doesn't solve those files, he's careless in the service, and right now these days here we see you organizing a wide support of all kinds of associations, organizations from the country and abroad to actually avoid the word of his sloppy work in court. Such judges remain unsettled files, unsolved writings go into oblivion. About a month or two ago, the State Judiciary Council issued a strict measure of a judge from Rijeka because she had aged 17 criminal records. 17 criminal records. She said she'd have a tenement, six months to cut her one-third of her salary. How many files must go out of date for one judge to be relieved of his duties? How much? 50? 70? 100? Or maybe all the files he gets? There are at least 17 injured persons behind these 17 criminal records. Someone's been damaged in those criminal acts. You lost any legal protection, because 17 of the files of a judge went out of date. The government says it will solve this issue in phase two, changes to the law. When? Is that when all the records on economic crime especially from the time of privatisation and conversion go into obsolescence? Watch State Audit, Mrs. Šima Krasic and her hardworking people are due by the end of this year to complete the revision of conversion and privatisation. Experience shows from the current process of reviewing and privatising that a lot of criminal offences have been found there and criminal charges have also been filed. These criminal charges that will be filed on the basis of an audit, which will be carried out by the end of the year, have no chance at all, but not a minimal chance of ending any conviction. It takes years, two longest for all of them to go into the area of absolute obsolescence. And what makes the government say we'll do it later, and they know what it's about. So all those from the conversion and privatisation that have committed crimes, who have become rich not only using the benefits of legal but by committing crimes, can be grateful to the government. The government's entire invitation to dinner, to reward maybe a little differently yet because it pleases them, will allow them by now not extending the deadlines of limitations so that their crime will never be punished. Never. They are calm, they can liquefy, celebrate when we adopt this bill of law. I wonder what the reason is when we already have the SDP's proposal, so whatever the SDP's is predicting the extension of the deadlines is obsolete. So why doesn't the government accept at least that part, it doesn't have to do everything. But to accept that part to send a clear message that he doesn't want to please those criminals. This is how he sends the opposite message, we want to help them, we want to help them never to be punished. Another thing, life imprisonment. We all know the death penalty has been lifted and it's a good thing it's been lifted and we haven't had it in over 10 years, we don't have a substitution for that general prevention. We have long-term prison means 20 to 40 years. But look, when someone gets a 25-year sentence means a long-term law, he can get out after half-sufficient punishment after 12.5 years. Unfortunately, there are in society and such incorrigible individuals who will reenact the crime. And you know what someone has to do to get 25 years in prison? He must kill several people in a particularly cruel way without any expedient circumstances, so neither does this punishment of long - term prison for nothing. One who kills a few people in a very cruel way will come out, kill someone else. So now I'm asking the government, who's taking responsibility for these new victims? Only because, behold, we will not accept the opposition's proposal because it comes from the opposition. So what if this guy comes out and kills somebody's kid? So will you feel responsible for not predicting a life sentence? What are you going to say to the press when they ask you? What are you going to tell them? Look, the fate of legal proposals is clear, so let's not be naive. The government's proposal will receive parliamentary majority votes. But we're not talking about any political law here right now. Penalty law is a law that concerns society as a whole, all of us. And I appeal to the second stage, the second reading releases both laws. I call on the government to accept at least these necessary parts of the SDP proposal by the second reading and to install them in its proposal. It doesn't have to be everything, it doesn't have to be everything, but these two segments where we send a clear message to criminals in conversion there's no forgiveness. There's no way we're letting them go into obsolescence and incorrigible criminals out of this sphere of likely blood-delicacies, there's no way, there's no way we're gonna let them kill again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13050	Thank you very much, fellow Stazic. Correction of incorrect allegations, colleague Tomljenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13051	Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13052	Tomljanović, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13053	Well, my colleague Stazic, of course, incorrectly cited a number of things, but I will look at only one from the introduction of his presentation, which is that the government favors the perpetrators of the criminal offences in question with amendments to the Penal Code, those crimes committed in conversion and privatisation. That's just not true. From everything the Government has written in the light of these first amendments or the first phase of amendments to the Penal Code, and let me look back on that, because in this sense too, in terms of economic crimes, criminal repression and in this area is primarily a matter of detecting, processing and sanctioning economic crime. And as for the deadlines, the last government was four years old to prosecute those crimes, and that's not what the audit found. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13054	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected counterpart Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13055	Mr. Vice President, it would correct Mr. Stazic's incorrect assumption that by extending the age-old government deadline, it would help perpetrators never to be punished or sanctioned. That assumption is not true but it is the opposite. By extending the deadline of opportunity and the great opportunity for all parts to be processed, completed and all perpetrators to be punished, and I must say that the time of 4 years has been enough to initiate all proceedings and that all criminals in conversion are sanctioned or at least to carry out procedures for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13056	Thank you, dear colleague. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13057	Mr. Vice President, I really wouldn't have used this table if it weren't necessary in this particular case. I call for Article 209. The government doesn't extend deadlines. On the contrary, she doesn't want to extend the limitation deadlines. You've completely misunderstood the government's proposal and my debate. Read the legal proposal, listen to the debate, and then correct if you think something needs to be fixed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13058	Thank you very much, dear fellow Stazic, but this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13059	Well, of course not.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13060	...this is a statement of opinion and other arguments. It's my dear colleague Tomljanović's turn. Here's your esteemed colleague for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13061	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the important representatives of the government. Here, I would also like to point out that I fully agree with the position and opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the working group that has prepared the proposed amendments and additions to the Penal Code, to amend and move into two phases. In the first stage, what is actually the subject of the proposed amendments should be limited to those changes that are urgent and necessary, for which no thorough scientific, professional, criminal political analysis and judgment on their justification is required. And in the second phase that would follow immediately, the time immediately behind the first, and in accordance with the Government of Croatia's programme after a comprehensive analysis, further changes will be decided, mainly concerning, therefore, the expansion of repression, the introduction of life imprisonment, the extension of limitation deadlines, the forced collection of financial claims and the like. Therefore, by proposing only some changes in this phase of the Penal Code, the remaining issues are not neglected but are only delayed for a certain short period of time, and this should be highlighted absolutely in this introductory section. However, the priority section covers changes and additions that are essential in the first order in order to bring our Penal Code into line with the international obligations of convention law. You will allow us all to agree that at this point this is a priority regarding criminal law reform. In the following, let me look specifically at three types of crime or as we say, what is related to economic crime or economic crime. Then abuse of drug abuse and public slander. We've heard a lot today about economic crimes compared to the decisions of this law, and I really wouldn't be repeating what they say. However, I will also repeat for the purposes of presenting my predecessors, and in relation to the deadlines of the outdated and what we have had the opportunity to hear, mainly in the SDP proposal and their proposal, therefore, and what we have had is a sense of time-consuming deadlines. So I repeat that the criminal repression of the thread in the area of economic crime and any other crime is not exclusively related to the limitation of deadlines. That would be an absolute simplification of the whole problem. This is far, of course, a broader problem, a broader notion and I will be here again, but I point out that criminal repression in both this area and the area of economic crime is primarily a matter of detecting, processing and sanctioning economic crime. With regard to the change, which includes economic crime, it should be pointed out that existing provisions of the Penal Code set out a legal framework for the protection and incrimination of prohibited actions, and hastily and unfounded changes in content and the criminal justice framework may result in legal uncertainty and the creation of an unfair position in the application of criminal material law. This clearly removes the urgency of further changes other than those relating to the alignment of our criminal law with international obligations based on convention law. However, here I note that in the proposed changes to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we have two new crimes, which is taking and giving bribes in economic business as a basis for accounting with corruption. So, by corruption as a source of many evils, not only in the context of economic crime. All other changes in this area, especially in relation to the phenomenon of criminal acts, the death of the Constitution protected goods, the government rightly announces in the second phase of amendments or reform of the Penal Code. As for drug abuse. We've heard different opinions here, of course, I'll take mine out for a while. There is absolutely no criminal political justification to change the existing incrimination referred to in Article 173(1). Criminal law, especially in relation to drug possession, production and sales, and other unauthorized drug trafficking. Inadmissible formulations that would limit the incrimination of the expressions of ownership, the production of small quantities only for personal use and so on. This is more so that such a procedure in decriminalisation, even if part of the criminal offence in question, cannot justify the overload of the criminal justice authority, because, by applying Article 28 of the existing criminal law, the provisions on a minor criminal act, but also by applying the principle of criminal prosecution by the State's attorney and the court, it is possible, without decriminalisation, to provide a reasonable and justified selection of easy and meaningless cases from those who are truly fatal and require the application of criminal repression. As for slander or public slander. The proposal to amend and supplement the Penal Code of the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall delete Article 48. The Penal Code, therefore, which regulates the guilt of the editor-in-chief of criminal offences committed by means of public communications, which the article could indeed be used in most cases for crimes against honor and reputation, and in particular slander through means of public disclosure. By abolishing this article, our criminal legislation accepts the basic assumptions based on the view that the criminal acts of libel and insults committed through the media are sufficient civil legal liability for the subsequent damage done by such behaviour. Dake, this change in Croatian criminal legislation is updated, noting that the possibility of compensation in civil proceedings against the editor-in-chief and other persons remains outside criminal legal repression as protection of civil rights and freedoms in the legal system of the Republic of Hravtska. Furthermore, if it comes from the principle that criminal legislation should avoid the application of objective responsibility, cascade responsibilities, therefore those responsibilities which are transferred from the person of the perpetrator to another person with whom there are no elements of guilt for the taking of the criminal part of the other perpetrator, then the solution is proposed from both the scientific and the professional point of view and desirable and above all acceptable. This proposed paper should, in any event, be linked to Article 24 of the proposed amendments, i.e. to the provision of Article 203 of the existing article of the Penal Code, which lays down the grounds for excluding the illegality of criminal acts against honor and reputation. In fact, the motion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia seek to amend the current text of Article 203, I will stop here a little bit, change in favour of doing a journalistic job. While the truthfulness or untrueness of the content is being published becomes primarily the subject of journalistic responsibility in performing work from an ethical and professional point of view. Therefore, criminal legal repression was appropriate and necessary only in those cases where it can be proved that the way of expression and other circumstances is clear that the author of the published content in public information had a purpose for the press business or only for the purpose of harming someone's honor or reputation. What is important in the context of the application of procedural provisions... the burden of proof from a potentially accused journalist, the new solution is transferred, of course, to the prosecutor, and the change itself does not change the existing civil liability for the possible damage done to the untrue or otherwise harmful actions in the means of public communication. and, of course, I fully support it, given that it is the first reading of the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of the working group of experts, so the people behind this proposal in terms of the profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13062	Thank you very much to my colleague Tomljanović. Replica, colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13063	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect that cases in the processing and sanctioning of these crimes of drug possession for which only the punishment until one year does not burden the judiciary. But that's a minor problem. The bigger problem is that in such an inadequate way of persecuting only those who are more victims than criminals remain with this view, with this concept of solving this problem we remain absolutely ineffective in the supply of drugs on the market. And this shows the indisputable facts, since this criminal act has been incriminating, or as it entered the Penal Code of 96th Penalty Mini Reform as a keen desire to fight this evil, it has only increased the use of drugs, the courts are simply blocked with these cases, and we are mostly losing youth as witnesses to where they got these drugs. So, absolutely one unacceptable criminal political relationship versus this thing, which, in addition to what counterpart Stazic said, we do not want to sanction, or incriminate good economic crime, we do not want to extend the deadlines of limitations, and we want this to remain in the Penal Code. Well, that's obvious what a concept of criminal law is. So, that large-scale crime of this kind and such in an indirect or direct way remains out of the reach of criminal legal repression.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13064	Reply to the replica, dear colleague Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13065	I will try to respond to the replica of distinguished MPs, of course knowing in advance that sometimes it is impossible to reconcile two obstructive positions. I think criminal law aside from all these important things that the material criminal right itself regulates has another other role to play. and it is not irrelevant in my humble opinion, which is what we messages to our public who does not have to and is not necessarily professional and is not much interested in any legal or criminal legal debate of the expert debate. I wouldn't want to be in any sense, we've had opportunities in this assembly to listen a lot about the past time about drug abuse in our society, to send a message to all, in the least of this place, to those, the wrong message, so to decriminalize the parts that are related to drugs. That's the first thing I'm gonna say. Secondly, if we, in this sense, change certain norms of material legal character, and in fact explain that our courts are crowded, then they cannot do their job or because we cannot apply the already existing provision of Article 28. The penal code, in my opinion, or from a professional point of view, let's just say it in a folk's way doesn't drink water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13066	Thank you, dear colleague. We're continuing the debate. It's my dear colleague Jurjevic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13067	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's what my colleague Tomljanovic said and what Ingrid was saying about two concepts of whether two understandings of the drug problem were related. We talked a lot about it here in the Parliament. The question really is whether possession of small amounts of drugs should be criminally divided or not? If 80, close to 80% of the share of drug abuse is exhausted, then only in drug possession, or if the courts are dealing with it alone. Well, it's really all of us's interest not to have young people branded for life because of what they used to own, say, a cigarette of marijuana. Joint, here's what he says. I mean, the goal is to draw attention to those who trade it, who are guilty of it happening. No one's here to support drugs or drugs, it's just a matter of different approaches. By 96, HDZ had offered the same solution. And it turned out, therefore, that until 96, this possession of small quantities was not a criminal offense. There he is. Anto didn't know that. By 96, when it became a criminal offense, nothing had changed for the better. It has been shown that the number of users and the worst of drug traffickers has continued to increase. So it turns out that as a society, we forget the parties were not effective in confronting drug traffickers, to confront this evil that is far beyond any legal proposal or any law adopted. It's about a phenomenon that's much more complex. What we suggest is to protect a young man from 16 and 17 years of age. That he didn't drag that trail his whole life, that his files were being opened, that he had come under the influence of the Penal Code, etc., because it was a victim. And the goal is to capture them, bring justice and punishment to those who trade in drugs. Those who are addicted to money, because it's not usually drug addicts. These big bosses aren't junkies, you're not afraid. And they are not there; they are not among those 80 percent of whom the judgment deals. So when you take everything that's drug related to 80% of what our courts are dealing with, these poor, sick, or those who caught him with one shit, with one joint, with one cigarette of marijuana. That's the problem. That's, that's the problem. And that's why we're talking here not because we'd be supported to support any message that could be misunderstood in our society that we don't want to fight drug abuse, exactly the other way around. And I remind you that by 96 HDZ had this concept. So, you've been looking for, you've been looking for solutions like this, and it's just that it's more efficient, it's more useful and what we need more. Since neither pleasure nor pleasure has been reduced, and the courts have been blocked with these cases, it is our opinion that, that this proposal proposed by the SDP is better. I'd like to say something about sexual abuse, especially child abuse. I was talking about it once here, and I said I'd postpone it, and I'm going to personally suggest that sexual abuse of children be treated as a murder, that the impeached sentence be equal to that sentence that was intended for murder. Because I think he's a sex offender and a murderer, and then when he stays alive, his victim who usually gets so sick after his life means nothing to him anymore. Whose life is ruined. And I think especially the other day I read, it doesn't matter in the black chronicle, four years in prison got a certain abuser for four-year abuse of a minor. A year of abuse of years in prison. Seems to me, I'd give him 200 years a year, and that means that, automatically, it means that I'm not an opponent, but I'm in favour of a life sentence. And I want to say something about that, too. The SDP is proposing a life sentence. The question, because it's spoken here on behalf of a club, is it the revenge of society? I wouldn't say that, I wouldn't say that, it's justice, not revenge. It's justice, not revenge. Some fellow Filipovic talked about it, but the question is whether our society wants to defend itself or does not want to defend itself against those who threaten to get out of prison when we get out again, we will kill again. I'm just asking you, do we want to defend ourselves against these? If we want to, if we want to, because the laws are the greatest Jews, the greatest shields of one society, then I really don't see any reason not to say it, so go ahead if you're really threatening and doing what's worst when one comes out. I will not talk about rapists who rape every time they come out within a few days but also those for the most cruel crimes, and also those 25 years, my colleague Stazic said what you should do, especially cruel, etc., crime, and several people. That's why I think it's one species and hypocrisy to be against life imprisonment in such a case in the name of humanity or the fight against revenge of society. Indeed, the question is, we had these killings of police officers, taxi drivers, and I'm not going to talk about some terrible crimes that happened, rape, murder, etc., remember Sinjska krajina, what happened first of all, which disgusted Sinjana and Krajina themselves and everyone else in Croatia. So you're really wondering what, what do you do to protect yourself that our children, that we, that anyone should not be the victim of such a person. What do you do? Is it revenge or justice for life, then, is it justice for me?- I'm sorry. And I'd like to say something about slander, etc., here in the SDP proposal, a fine for libel is proposed. That's it. that in the case of conscious and deliberate slander, there is no possibility of exculpation. And as for the other investigative journalism, etc., it seems to me that the Government does not make the difference that this proposal makes. But these days, why don't you say it here and open here, we're full of what's going on on the Internet... It is indeed a question of how to protect what is called honor and the reputation of citizens in relation to modern means of communication, to the Internet, to what is privacy, to whether anyone can steal anything, whether someone can film you, whether we can all be victims, again for money, seems sensationalism to me. Because in this case, I think there's a victim here. And we really need to find a way to protect ourselves from it together. And here, it's mostly what eight wanted to say, so nobody's into drugs, it's about thinking about what's smarter, better and more useful. Should 80% of the court cases be the ones who are sick, what about life imprisonment and in this case the protection of personality honor in the reputation of citizens and all of us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13068	Thank you, dear colleague Jurevic. A fellow Beatunite, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, dear colleague Jurevic. A fellow Beatunite, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13070	Mr. Jurevic... Article 214 and you do not have the right to apostrophe in the context in which you spoke the city of Sinj and Cetitna krajina. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not an honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13071	There was no damage to the Rules of Procedure. It is a specific case, which took place in Sinjska krajina and, as an example, was cited by his colleague Jurjevic in his discussion. It's a criminal offence, and it's about the criminal law that's being discussed. And if he hadn't mentioned the perpetrators or the suspects at all, he wouldn't have gotten into that part. So it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. And I'm asking you not to abuse a plate of damage to the Rules of Procedure. And now the correction of the inaccuracies of fellow Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13072	Mr. Jurjevic said this: that by 1996 HDZ offered solutions to similar SDPs on easy drugs. I think it is well known to all the Croatian public when it comes to easy drugs or drugs in general that HDZ has one conservative approach to this is simply impossible for us to offer such and similar solutions, and on the other hand by 1996 we were dealing with some, some other things, a little more serious things, which is the structure of both the defence of the state and the democratisation of state and Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13073	Injury of the Rules of Procedure of Col. Jurjević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13074	I refer to article 209 of my colleague, Bitunjac. I really didn't... of, not that it wasn't intentional. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was in law. The exact same solution by 1996. I mean, look, ask your colleagues who know that from your party. So that's it. I mean, we're now proposing what was already during HDZ. But good. That's it, and as far as Sinj's concerned, which is very strong for me, so I told you that the most horrible thing is Sinj and Krajina. It's a crime that could have happened anywhere. So the normal thing that nobody wants to hurt their feelings...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13075	Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13076	Any end, residents of any city. It's about, oh, I wanted to
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13077	Thank you, dear colleague Jurevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13078	... one drastic example that disgusted all of Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It doesn't matter where it happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13079	Thank you, dear colleague Jurevic. You didn't need the other part for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. A colleague, a colleague of Nenadić, a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13080	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives. I will correct the incorrect allegations again. It is clear that the political options of the Croatian Democratic Union and your party cannot be similar or can be undermined by the same denominator when it comes to the concept of drugs. The Croatian Democratic Community has never had a concept of how you said neither intent nor ever proposed legalisation of both easy drugs and those who enjoy these easy drugs and forgive their guilt about it. So you said that, that's not true, and that's correcting the incorrect assumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13081	Come on, buddy, let's go, let's be fair. Coliga Jurjevic spoke of the fact that in the Law until 1996, therefore, during the HDZ authorities, the same solution was proposed here on decriminalisation. All right, all right, all right. counterpart Antičević-Marinovic also has a correction to the incorrect quote of counterpart Jurjevic to the main exhibition.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13082	It is. When his counterpart Jurjevic spoke of drugs, decriminalisation, supporting the proposal said it was two different drug approaches. And we're at the SDP Club all the way to, for a long time, believed it. However, it is no longer a different approach. It's about whether or not we want to solve this problem. And from this moment on the government will be, the government will be directly... /The speech room is off/... everything shows that this is an inadequate way, and we have and we have made legislation where this can be sanctioned in an adequate way. So criminal legislation seems impotent about this issue. And we make the government responsible if he doesn't accept this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13083	My colleagues, colleagues Antičević-Marinović, have abused the plate of correcting the incorrect allegations. It's not about correcting an incorrect quote. You gave your opinion on what you were right to do, but you could use it through the proposing institute. You were supposed to go out for a pay phone and ask for a word. Please no longer abuse the plate of correcting the incorrect quote. ... My colleagues, not you, not me. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please continue with the debate nicely. It's time for my dear colleague, Fuchek. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13084	Sir, Mr. Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to be involved with this Bill's proposal in the debate on the issue which is governed by this Law, and in one part is being extended and complemented not only by the consent of European legislation but also by the fact that it is a new type of crime, and it concerns computer crime, which, we know and ourselves, is increasingly, increasingly, increasingly present and more difficult to deal with in terms of its detection, processing and sanctioning. And why is that? Because information technology has made great progress in terms of its development and in the sense of the accompanying form of all social activities and is inevitable in order to promote the community. In this context, it has also brought many accompanying negative consequences, which is exactly the specific difference between computer crime and classical crime. I don't think that our society in this sense is aware of what potential it is for the future and that in this very sense we have to make some certain and material shifts and other preparations so that we can deal with it maturely. And the specific difference between these two crimes is that computer crime, which for him, takes a very short time to detect a crime, and it takes a little people and a little money to commit a crime. The person who commits this crime is difficult, difficult to detect because it does not have to be at the scene of a crime but can do so from his home. Therefore, the specificity of this crime is that for those who reveal it, it is not always clear whether it is a criminal offence or whether a criminal offence has been committed, which means that it is difficult to reveal and even more difficult to prove. And so far, judicial practice has allowed, allowed sanctioning and enabled certain preventive options, but we have examples that our bodies, our authorities, have been difficult to deal with because they have not always been well equipped or technically well equipped and in this sense all this has been more difficult to prove. That is why new provisions are needed, and also means greater social attention is needed to this type of crime. The Internet as a global communications network is certainly one of the basic means of committing this crime. Here are several MPs who cited the most powerful examples of Internet abuse, and we also see that only processing is not in the right direction. Which means that the Internet that can be, which is, which means that the Internet is not only a means but it can also be an object as well as a computer. It can also be a means and it can also be an object of attack. If the means to commit a crime is, today and in the future, the potential for it to use, or, to use a computer network, it uses the Internet to use information technology for processing, to reveal data that it is also a later link to a kind of organised crime. And if the object of the attack is then there must be two types. And these are the ones who consciously send viruses that have already been spoken of, and when they send it, they no longer have any control over it. And another species, when this virus actually represents a specific program that one who sends it can access another person's computer can abuse data and, in that sense, do or obtain a certain material benefit. According to global data, the FBA's most difficult to detect is these crimes and only 1% were discovered compared to what was done. In particular, there is a problem for the countries of transition because we are not to deal with this ngo have much more difficult problems, and much of this problem has been neglected in relation to its importance for the future. But what we do know is we need to know that there won't be investments without the safety of a cyber space. This is what really requires that society prepares itself more seriously in all its technical, human and other possibilities for this type of work. Developed democratic countries, especially members of the European Union, and in particular the United States, are certain to invest larger funds for the human resources of all institutions, which are necessary for the detection of this type of crime. So I'd like to point out that I'm not sure if we have the same awareness, because for a time there was a department that was part of the Ministry of the Interior who was involved in the subject and numbering only two delinquents. In this regard, I think that neither their budget was higher and that not only meant in terms of legal arrangement but also in terms of preparation we must do far more. I can see that Mr. Lucin is raising his bat, and he's going to fix it, it's going to be a clue to me because I'm talking back maybe 7.8 years about extermination when it means some kind of break-in into somebody's systems and when these employees personally expressed their dissatisfaction with the exact condition of that department. I'll be glad that the institution is very different now. So the classic criminal versus that new criminal Hacker as he's popularly called, no more is now so the different picture is he now has a tie, he has a suit and a laptop. I think that in this sense we too must be aware that this is a new age and that this must be given far more attention. I wanted to point out at this time that this area of information technology may even be needed to regulate it with specific laws because of its specificity, which surely in some generational space is not always the most possible to understand because of the meaning of a special new technological approach. New areas of expertise and new needs. And that's why I used this time to point out that problem right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13085	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13086	So in connection with the departments of special departments at the Ministry of the Interior for the sake of the public, it should be said that since three years ago a special department was formed to have several top experts.And they broke two large or chain paedophiles if you remember, purgatory 1st, 2nd and 3rd was actually over the Internet. And I thank you, and I agree that they certainly need more money. And I actually support these solutions that I think as well as my colleague that maybe I should be more radical in that sense to allow more efficient work to be done to combat all forms of crime through Interent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13087	My colleague Lucine, this wasn't a correction. You could have done it through a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13088	No, Mr. President, Mrs. Fucher said there aren't only a few people in the ministry. I mean, there's a department that's formed that has its positioning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13089	We still have one MP, vice president of the House, respected representative Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13090	Your Honor, Mr. President, in my debate alone, I will refer to part of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the SDP criminal code relating to the colloquial decriminalisation of light drugs. It seems to me that my colleague Josipovic was correcting an incorrect allegation that, or that the SDP was governed by the principle of reducing the number of victims of legal repression by this law, proposed by law. but, under the circumstances, easier cases go under criminal law or criminal law, that's how I realized it. However, my view is that this is exactly what a more liberal attitude allows young people, or very rarely recorded, to become overnight an addict with the benefit of the needle so that everyone who listens to this and understands it. Usually it goes with easy drugs usually it goes with Joint One, the other, three, and usually gradually passes on to what is actually the white plague of this century. Well, if my opinion is that this bill allows us to make drugs easier for our children, so if you chose between the two victims' cuts in the number of victims of criminal repression or victims of heavy drug consumption, then if you wanted to choose between those victims, then I think you'd choose this first one anyway. But when I read the SDP law proposal, then perhaps one of the most paradoxical reasons is the burden of the judiciary. I figured that out the way here, let's take an example of us attending him every day by robbing banks or bookies, but let's stay at the banks. One goes in there with a black sock over his head with a whistle but comes after him a awkward time app finds him there only 500.00 or 1,000,00 kuna and then we could say it so he or she is later determined he has come, not with a real gun but a gun on the water, didn't take a hundred thousand kuna or euros but only a thousand kuna so let's just report him wrongly. In that sense, I also understood this proposed law. Someone talked here and about the messages the proposed law can give to the Croatian public and in the introduction I wanted to say that I do not want to speak here as a member of a democratic conservative party but as a father of three children and I think I speak for the great majority, most of them. Someone here said I don't want to send or don't want to send a message like this or a message like that and the latest information, I don't know some people might know it, if they don't know it now they're going to hear it, that kids who finish primary school, they're 20% to 30%, and they even have some kind of experimental contact with opiates already, and that's a very worrying piece of information, and then I wonder what would give these kids or what kind of message they would send me to those kids, and I'm going to look back at one example from my growing up. As you grow up in the street between 10 or 15 children or your peers there, so I grew up so there were 15 of us who were 3 older ones who wanted to impose in some way and then those children's games as they were imposed, they chose a way to brag about them three of those boys I'd tell the intrusions. This one went to the store and got, or stole three gums for the three of us, these two, and this third one, and then when we talk about the messages, those three kids got it, while the kids were our parents and then they got two different messages. These two kids or my peers, now they've been banned from going out for three days, we couldn't hang out, and this one was still going out and even his parents came out to these guys, so come on, it's not so bad, let the kids play, it's kids. Today these two of my colleagues are adults and finished colleges, they have one I would say the right way of development, and this third one who got the wrong by me is often on the edge of the law and often stays and often stays in prison. But also, it seems inappropriate to me that, in such a situation, the growth of drug consumption trends, to suggest fewer penalties and an unsettled proposal. With the lack of this proposal, I also consider the quantity to be determined, which is the amount of drugs used for my own use or which is the type of drugs. So, in any case, if they were to put it into practice and make it more difficult for police officers to deal with the problem. If you have someone who meets one of the young people with a certain amount of drugs that he should be able to determine on the spot is that easy, is that heavy drugs, is that for personal use? Well, as a doctor, I suppose such an employee would have to have some sort of measuring apparatus, like... metabolism, because he's one of the conditions of whether a certain amount of drugs is for personal use, or could be part of it and for sale, or, of course, depends on the body mass of an individual, and then he should have some kind of apparatus to determine what kind of drugs are and, of course, an apothecary small scale to determine how many milligrams or grams of drugs. In the current law, I think it's visible from the work of the state's attorney's office, which has been applied to the principle of opportunity, and whichever good part of the cases I'm re-emphasizing to easy cases has not been processed further. Of course, the proposed law will be passed before the tourist season, and I think it would certainly open that door wide to these cities that are in Dalmatia because of their position. Since we are running out of time, I would like to conclude that instead of seeking to decriminalise drugs, it would be better to fight for primary prevention programmes and all together to find opportunities and additional means to use these primary programmes in terms of primary prevention, and it would also be good to consider strengthening preventive repression activities in public places, especially around schools all in order to reduce the availability of drugs and prevent the establishment of open drug scenes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13091	We have three replicas. First respected representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13092	Thank you very much. It is true that with everything that is, the Penal Code is also an expression of the political will of the majority with which forms, what intensity to fight. However, about the drugs, if Mr. Vice President's withdrawal was consistent with what he said, he said about this: At best statistics say that 30% of young people come into contact with easy drugs. So if we were to tie ourselves to his first sentence, that in the rule of easy drugs, or as he said about the needle, in Croatian society, there would be 30% of young addicts in the Croatian state, which is not true. I think that in Croatian criminal law, we definitely need to figure out some things, which is that we have something called banned drugs, and we have the difference between easy drugs and heavy drugs and that we have the difference between possession and trade. Because be careful if we don't solve it then what happens now will happen to you in practice. The court frees a person who had 200 grams of cocaine on account that it was for his own use, and they couldn't convict him because he didn't have a scale with him and it wasn't proof that it was for unloading. I assure you that if it were a violation of easy drugs, then if a kid found out with one ecstasy had to pay 500 or a thousand kunas, not him, but his parents would find out that this child was being drugged, it would actually be much more effective and open up space for the police to fight heavy drugs. The SDP doesn't suggest that an officer on the ground decides what's for what and what kind of drugs he's after, and we suggest he's not being prosecuted. You know that kids who have, who go into criminal records, they can't work in the state service. It means a boy or a girl who finds herself with a joint can never work in the state service. All major modern corporations are also looking for an SV and a copy of the criminal record. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13093	The reply to the replica, the respected MP Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13094	My colleague Lucin, I didn't say that we had 20 to 30 or more drug addicts, but students who experimented with some of the opiates at the end of primary school. So I didn't say it, but I said it was the first step that leads to the ultimate step in using heavy drugs and of course these 20 to 30% of the students have bigger, so to speak, the chances of ending up on heavy drugs than those 70, and by this proposed law, I say, by me we give them easier access and we actually give them what's very important and what I explained is, in my opinion, the wrong message.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13095	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, we will continue today without a break, since Friday is also for the vote to finish what we had. Replica, respected representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13096	The esteemed colleague may have misunderstood my exposure. Regardless of the differences in the Penal Code, there is something we share, and it is indeed a drastic conviction of drugs and drug abuse. Obviously, we're only different by how effectively to contain this evil. As far as the victims are concerned, my note was that these kids were the victims of a drug dealer, not a legal system. It was one maybe misunderstanding. But experience shows if we want to fight drugs together, and experience shows us that criminal repression of possession obviously did not result, that there are some other experiences that show that criminal legal, illegal legal punishment of this with medical, educational, media and all other measures can give better results. That one of the unwanted consequences of the stigmatization of these young people who are the victims of drug dealers and that we have a further problem that when such kids entered the criminal justice system and are being treated criminally, that we lose them as witnesses against drug dealers, then, of course, this resulted in one attempt to stop this repression and the desire to stop drugs in a different way. So I understand that you have a different view of this and a different worldview and a different assessment of how it's best to do it, but believe that we really share the same goal, just obviously different ways we see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13097	The reply to the replica, the respected MP Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13098	I understand we share the same goal. I am obviously part of your exposure wrongly heard or understood, but once again I want to point out that by this eventual acceptance, I say as a member, as a father of three children, I say as a member of the Croatian Democratic Union, a conservative democratic party, I have tried to find a reason for this proposal. So it's absolutely clear to us, and without any politics, the ultimate goal is clear to us. But once again I say, I'm afraid of wrong messages to young people in Croatia. And I explained what it means, here from, not my own, but from my environment the wrong message.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13099	And distinguished representative Drago Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We in Croatia have experience when it is a matter of addiction or intercession of small quantities or any amount of drugs, whether it is a criminal offence or a criminal offence. And when we talk about this problem, it would be good to remind ourselves of the number of people according to data from registered addicts in Croatia, 13 thousand times 5 to get the exact data and age limit of drug consumption has fallen to 12 years. We share these people with consumers and addicts, and counterpart Milinovic certainly knows that addiction is a disease. However criminally we treat a particular disease, if we keep ourselves only on repression and sanctions in terms of legislative solutions, we have not solved the problem because the measures are also opportunized when they are pronounced in the courts for youth. And the punishment that would go from criminal law to the fate of that child who became the victim is not a problem that we all swear to help young people. Because in Croatia we did not develop a professional institution in which consumers would conduct withdrawal and counselling, and in drug addicts treatment. And therefore, any legislative solution that does not affect the obligation to withdraw, advise and treat, to which we are bound by the United Nations conventions to which we have joined, the one from 63 and 68, will not solve the problem. No matter what we're all parents and I understand when you perform as a father. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13101	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Party of Retirement Club, Honored Representative Josip Sudec. Here you go, buddy. Five minutes of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13102	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. We have a slightly different approach and attitude to amend the Penal Code. We believe that one real proposal can be made out of these two proposals and we consider this only as an contribution to doing the right thing. We in the Retired Party are a generation that has created social goods that, by privatizing and converting, went into private hands and bothers us when we see that 427 criminal charges have only been filed in the past two years against people who have wrongly, unfairly or have come to state property. We believe that as people in the National Assembly and as an institution, the National Assembly should defend the interests of the state. This Law should stipulate that the adoption of the opposite privatisation programme is considered the most serious crime against property and that it is never outdated. Therefore, perhaps the generation that comes behind us will have the civic courage to bring regulations and to see what has been done in this privatisation fairly, based on the crime of usurpation of state property and wealth at the expense of the entire society, i.e. the state. I think it's a national interest, and I suggest that the proposings predict that there is no obsolescence in the criminal acts that, which it aims to move state property into private pockets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13103	Thank you very much. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Mrs. Snježana Bagic, final review, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13104	I thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At the end of the debate in the first reading, the amendment and addition of the Penal Code to both the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and those amendments proposed by the SDP Representatives Club. With all the different opinions and disagreements that have been expressed, I think we will all agree that the debate has shown that the amendments and additions of this Law are necessary and necessary. It was personal for me, following this debate, that actually criminal legislation as a reaction of society to certain illegal behaviours, criminal behaviours, so on what needs to be sanctioned certain behaviours, maintains the needs of society, which is logical. So, we try sometimes what we saw in the past, through those sins of the past sanctioned from one side. On the other hand, we live in a dynamic society and then we face new forms of crime, such as the crimes of cybercrime. On the other hand, the debate also shows one thing. One is the criminal framework that we are creating, that is the Government's proposal or parliamentary representatives. The Legislative Body adopts that law, therefore, creates one framework in which others implementing laws, state attorneys in this case, when it comes to criminal acts and courts which are to give an answer to this and within those legal frameworks, apply that law and decide in each individual case whether or not someone has committed a criminal offence. And here there was a debate on these two bill proposals, the government's bill of law mostly complained that he was too careful, that he didn't go wide enough. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that our experiences so far show that we are adequately reacting to these phenomena of illegal forms by criminal law, they must seem to me to be thought-out and conceited, so that after a short time we do not declare the laws not good, or not good enough, or that we are eventually talking about that criminal, pardoning that the bodies that need to implement these laws do not react properly. That is why the Government of the Republic of Croatia has defined in this approach as already said in two stages. So let's just make those amendments and supplement the Penal Code at that moment that is necessary, which are necessary on one side. On the other hand, should we, at the same time, make one systematic full criminal legal political assessment of whether or not we should really increase the obstacles? Because here, there was also a debate about certain individual cases that the punishment wasn't high enough. The question was she not already prevented as such high enough? Or by applying the laws, the courts are independent independent courts under the law, the court has established some other circumstances or phenomena for which it did not impose a maximum penalty, but rather a somewhat lower penalty. That's one thing. On the other hand, speaking of the level of impediment, no one argues that illegal conduct should be punished, the question of whether or not we are sending the purpose and message to the community is that we can only achieve society by simply sharpening the penalties. Is our exit in the general tightening of criminal acts or is it actually in the pursuit of some other mechanisms and ways in the generally criminal political prevention and sanctioning to achieve that goal and purpose. In this context, another issue that has been discussed, and this is a question of extending the general deadlines? and here some MPs held different opinions. Should we or should we not, or are we going to achieve this goal and purpose by increasing the limitation period? First, it should be said that already the length of the limitation period now and always has been so under criminal law depends on the height of the suspended sentence, for those parts that are considered more severe criminal acts already and are now obsolete deadlines longer, on the one hand. On the other hand, the question is, why are we going to extend the limitation deadlines? When and when will the criminal acts be prosecuted, or when will the verdict finally be reached? That's one thing. Secondly, it was said here when we talk about certain criminal parts of the part of economic crime. It is perfectly natural that in a society that has passed the transition, which has passed the privatisation, where many have unwarrantedly enriched parts of economic crime may draw particular attention not only to the Parliament, but also to the public, and that the illegal parts that have been committed should be punished. Now, this law doesn't seem like it, because it only predicts two parts, which is receiving and giving bribes in economic business. Of course, criminal legislation should respond to these phenomena. However, prescribing new criminal acts of economic crime that will meet the needs of society is a matter of one future, and of course it should be systematically done. Therefore, we new criminal acts find it difficult to achieve what has been done in the past, although none of us should be reasonable, government, nor should the Parliament remain passive to such phenomena and the need to punish them. It is said here in a parliamentary debate that the government does not, or agrees, not to sanction the criminal acts committed during the conversion and privatisation, by not agreeing to an extension of the limitation deadlines. Now, first of all, I don't think that's true, and I've already said that it can't be brought into direct contact with the fight, or punishing the crimes committed during the conversion and privatisation, that's one thing. Secondly, all of us, we know that the conversion and privatisation took place, it's a process that's almost over, it's going on until... the year. Therefore, let us set up a time frame when this is done, when evidence can be collected, the Law on Conversion and Privatisation has been passed, it should have been implemented by now, it should have been established where illegal conduct and criminal charges filed and processed. So, when a criminal application has already been filed there and a criminal proceedings initiated, the limitation period is absolutely changing, it becomes a double limitation period is double, pardoning the limitation period is calculated. Therefore, for such works there is no excuse in this law that the danger of them falling into oblivion. So I think bringing the context, I didn't, at least I didn't read it out of the SDP Club proposal, extending the limitation deadlines just so that any criminal acts... in the conversion and privatisation would be sanctioned, in order to enable it, I don't think it's correct to end, that it should be made clear from this place. The second group of criminal acts that triggered great attention and we are glad to see it sanctioning the criminal part of illegal construction. Immaculate construction is something that is our reality, our monster. We can't just sanction her and prevent her. But it should also be sanctioned to make it clear that these are socially dangerous, unacceptable acts and that they should be punished and that they should be in the area of criminal acts. There was an observation that now not all illegal behavior can be equated, so if someone builds a house or builds a chicken house, for example. This is of course not the same question, first whether a building permit is needed for all of this, but when it is established, when you are in need or not, then, of course, depending on what was being built and how the total criminal act was handled, its social danger should be observed, and then the amount of punishment to be imposed, including then the qualification of that part as a leniency crime, therefore the parts considered in their social dangers are considered to be insignificant offenses. It is also part of these latest events that attracts great media attention, of course, on the one hand, to protect someone's honor and reputation, and on the other hand, to protect someone's right to privacy. Now it expands to other modern means of communication, we come to the area of hypernetic crime. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has changed certain criminal acts that refer to this as a violation of secrecy, integrity, accessibility and computer data, introduced new parts, computer counterfeiting and computer fraud, so this is something that is now our reality and need to respond legally to these new challenges and new forms of such illegal acts. While we are already in the field of public action, public communication, the difference between the Government of Croatia's proposal and the SDP's Club of Defamation against the criminal part of the defamation that the SDP's Club of Representatives proposes only to impose fines for that part. In addition to certain changes relating to, eradicating the provision which prescribed the responsibility of the editor-in-chief, I apologize as... responsibility and certain changes in the exclusion of the illegality of such practices in Article 203, if they were not intended only to disinformation the public so primarily that we do not propose it. The government believes that this part of slander should remain punishable, i.e. that the suspended sentence should be not only a fine, but also a prison sentence that should be prevented as a possible punishment, of course, that judge who, in a specific case, will judge and impose a penalty appropriate for the possible criminal act committed will judge whether such action and deserves only a fine or sentence of imprisonment. I note that the criminal laws of other countries also show that, as a rule, both sentences and prison sentences and fines are provided for in the legislation. The second question is how many of these punishments are actually imposed. And it seems to me that our... the practice in this direction does not deviate from those standards of other countries of Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the final question that is expected to raise great interest in both the assembly and the public is a social monster, it's socially dangerous, it's important for us as a community, because it reflects primarily among young generations, among young people, it's abuse of intoxicating drugs. It has long been debated whether only possession of drugs or insignificant amounts of drugs should be sanctioned as a criminal act or not. There are possible different approaches, however, the government believes that there should also be a clear message, that this is something that is socially unacceptable, which is socially dangerous and that should be provided for in criminal acts as such. Of course the state's attorney's office will when... the act and the court where that act punishably and judge and concrete its social execution, shall assess and determine how it will punish it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, when we talk about drug abuse or intoxicating drugs, it would be good, and we need to make sure that prevention is what is primarily required, when sanctioned is already a punishment because this man, especially the young person, has already gone the wrong way, he's in drug troubles. But from the point of view of social danger,... when we speak and when we return only to the area of the law the government considers that this body should be... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and drug possession should be provided for as a criminal offense, so it should not be transferred to the very domain of breaking legislation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, there was an example that it was before, intended only as a felony, and now it's a crime so that nothing was achieved. So it just shows it to us... the arguments that something was punishable sooner or later or later or should have different access to whether the courts have been re-carried or not, do not always give for the right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it gives us the right to think, that we think that drug possession itself should also be a criminal act. I thank you for your patience, I feel so brief that I have included those basic emphasis on certain key places concerning amendments to the Penal Code. This is the first reading, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, of course, carefully and thoroughly discuss and consider all these proposals and opinions, and by answering them in the text of the final draft of the law, perhaps some of the new forms of criminal offences that will appear, of course in the second stage and one stronger procedure, segment in the area of criminal law policy when it comes to tightening, possible tightening of penalties and new crimes in the area of economic crime and other areas where this is shown necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13105	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13106	Thank you very much. So I don't think there's any dilemma, that we'll agree at least in major centres and centres, that our courts are overloaded, and that's actually one of the reasons why SDP went from that point of view with a proposal for an extension of the limitation deadlines and not just to process some crimes. So, I hope in a few years we get a situation that the courts will work faster on their... in some variants and that outdated power actually shrinks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be good if this law in the second reading were actually given such a situation that we no longer have to go to criminal reform but to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13107	And respected representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13108	I thank you, from the State Secretary's presentation, it has resulted in the SDP proposing an extension of the limitation deadlines only to punish acts of conversion and privatisation. Of course, that's not true because old age is proposed globally. The extension of time-limits is: first of all, statutes exist to allow state authorities to process various acts and experience shows especially in economics that this is not the case with us. And secondly, because in this time of time of old age, there is still a time in which a moral fault takes place, and it seems to me that this component has been fulfilled, and therefore the Gospodar crime is only a cause, and it seems to me a very good concept of an extension of antiquity.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13109	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Final review of the proposal to amend and supplement the KZ of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13110	Thank you, Mr. President, I think this is too serious a matter to tell me in this way where the government, where everything here publicly announces as the government thinks, thinks, thinks. We're being watched here by the general public, but we're seen by those who aren't left behind, who have remained out of the reach of criminal repression, and I think they can rightly laugh at us. What the SDP Club is proposing is that we just get to that problem. To understand that criminal justice, that is, the criminal justice system at the end of the day, but criminal law is not an instrument that will sanction any kind of behavior or misbehavior. And what the colleague of our Dr. Josipovic that simple and criminal application has become also a national... The criminal justice system does not really achieve its purpose in this way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It also seems potent, after all, that it is blasphemed in this way. If we put everything and everything in it where fines are prevented, then we can't expect it to fulfill its social function. If penalties are provided, they can partly stand to note that they are neither mild nor punitive, but if practice shows that they are more difficult to minimum in application, that often the institute is used to mitigate penalties, then that is what the judiciary is ordering us to do, raise special minimums and especially maximums, and then the penalties will be greater. It is not possible that the government does not know this, but the government is considering and thinking about sanctioning better economic crime as if it does not know that there is a conclusion of the Parliament, two years ago the Parliament was showing where exactly what was once the Government's proposal, before the Government, and now it is the SDP Club's proposal to increase the dissuasive deadlines for all of these reasons, as we have heard from fellow Josipovic here now that I am not repeating it but also so that it is better to incriminate economic crime for the future. And so while the government thinks and thinks there are statistical indicators. And that's why we can really get serious here... And I'm now withdrawing the notion that this is about two different concepts, it's not about two different concepts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is where you consciously go to make the criminal justice system as weak as possible. Because how can you not conclude that if the statistics here, in terms of the very criminal part of drug abuse show. And it grows more and more every year. For the criminal justice system to be exhausted only in procreation of drug possessions up to a year is a suspended sentence. If statistics show that this is an inadequate measure because the number of drug users is constantly increasing. If statistics show that there is an increasing offer, that drugs continue to come to the market, if statistics show that the state's attorney's office is largely benefiting from this opportunity institute and what if it were not used? Then the court, the courts could have nothing else or time to deal with but this problem. If statistics show how much, has anyone ever been sanctioned for not, or an employer who has not paid, paying the worker a salary. What else is there to investigate? The SDP club proposes that the criminal offence be not a violation of rights, but because the employer did not pay the salary. If the statistics show that a return to a serious murder is not a very rare occurrence, that these people get out of prison and kill again, and then we're going to invent and invent and devise and analyze judgments that all the court has done. The court was in charge of what he could. A law that's completely inadequate. Here it has shifted very incorrectly to the judiciary that the problem of economic failure is not only the problem of the law but there are difficulties and inadequate processing and sanctioning, is that too. But it means to me here as legislators, as legislators, we wipe our hands like Pontius Pilate from that burning problem. Come on, please. This isn't about two concepts. This is about what criminal legislation is about. Whether for the poor or for the rich who are all allowed and who have become rich in an unauthorized way. They discuss the coordination of our government when such a terrible case happens in traffic, and that is almost daily, we need to change something in this Transport Act. At the same time, the Penal Code is proposed where the SDP Club proposes more drastic penalties for such persons who commit such crimes, especially with a fatal consequence. The government is silent about it. After all, they were formed, which I had already mentioned, associations, family associations. In Petrinja, parliamentary representatives received them and had a conversation with them. They were representatives of all parties. Here's the HSP. And HDZ. They'll be promised to the associations this and that, we'll get them, we'll do it. And at the same time he's lying, people are lying. At the same time, a law is proposed that doesn't say anything about it. You HDZ agents promised these parents murdered innocent children that you would do anything to tighten sanctions for serious murders and not just serious murders. Now you go over there and tell those people you didn't mean it like that. And what does the government do? And this is even presented as a reform procedure. It's not a reform plot. It's necessary and well and we repeat it it was necessary to do so. These are adjustments to the international conventions and standards of the European Union. That was necessary to do. Well, it's not like this concept shows that then the government is just doing something that is necessary and necessary, and what it should come up with, which is a burning problem for all of us about it, we'll still come up with and figure it out. And this SDP Club proposal, which was once a government proposal, and he didn't come to a shortcut because it was serious... And it was to be thought, and a year and a half of it was done, and to bring it, and to bring it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, no, no, no. Thank you, comrade Wrestler. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Is why this proposal hasn't been adopted. Because then the opposition, the current government there truly has continuity and has opposed the proposal. She objected to better sanctioning economic crime. She objected to better sanctioning the serious crimes of murder and everything else, but she didn't say so. And now we see it that way. Eventually it was just a disputed sanctioning of drug possession, should it stay or not? But now you can see what you really meant because if everything else had been undeniable then it would now contain the government's proposal. But no, that's what you should think and imagine. We at the SDP Club hold that these are issues that should not be politicised especially if we speak publicly, and often when things that scandal our public though, as they have become more common, the question is whether or not they are being scandalized but the question is therefore what we are doing at this point, and we can and we want to do at all. But not really the government thinks cloning is a major national danger although Croats are getting smaller and smaller, and then it would be a good way if it didn't already go in a different way, and economic crime should continue. For a little while longer, just a year and a half longer, the maximum of two years will cover everything, and then the government will no longer need to think about what. At least she will be free to sanction or incriminate economic crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13111	Thank you very much. We have one series of corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13112	I am correcting the incorrect allegation of an esteemed colleague who said, quote: "the government is inventing how not to sanction economic crime". This, for the sake of the public, should be said that this serious proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot be subdued under this statement because indeed everyone who has carefully read what this is really about, it is absolutely unacceptable. And what I've already said has no moral or legal stand to say to someone who was four years old to fix things in this sense under quotes. And one more. It's here that says why the first law was therefore not passed in that previous assembly. Well, for the sake of the public, it should be said that the law wasn't passed because it didn't have enough votes since it was the Penal Code to pass the parliamentary procedure. But that political option, which had enough votes to change the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia within 3 months, cannot then switch it to the HDZ political option in the previous term. Thank you. ... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13113	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13114	Your Honor, Mr. President, if so many incorrect allegations were to say otherwise than until yesterday, the Minister of Justice is truly unacceptable. Well, we'll get started. To do justice as gently as possible is somehow an incorrect data because it does not depend on the law, on the law as effective as the judiciary will be because you were saying, you were just saying that the negative data from the judiciary and the State's Attorney's Office that speak of non-application or the existing law. Second. The opposition is responsible for the failure to vote. Ma'am, you've had 100 and I don't know how many votes in the last term and you should have provided a sufficient number of votes, and what was important was that when the vote was voted, it was counter-constitutional that you passed such a vote of law and that the Constitutional Court must abolish it for you. You as a minister should have warned that. And you're not. And we're HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13115	Honored representative Željko Nenadić, also a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13116	Thank you, Mr. President. It is incorrect that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is only doing what it has to do. The government of the Republic of Croatia is working towards the Croatian Democratic Community programme, which received support from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia on 23 November, and on the success of this programme, polls also suggest that the popularity of the Croatian democratic community is on the rise. We can therefore conclude that this is only about one single statement, one that tries to define what the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13117	Josip Djakic corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13118	Mr. President, I will correct the inaccuracies of colleague Anticevic in which he states that the government is lying and that by calling the associations he only promises. It is true that the government corrects the injustices and cures caused by the wounds that have been inflicted on you in your time. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13119	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13120	Well, here's Mr. President, I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Anticevic. Veli, the government opposes sanctioning serious crimes sanctioning crime and so on. Let's remember a little closing of criminal organizations and so forth, we didn't let them go free. Then let us remember that the objects are also 4 years older than they were before old. And finally, it's a shame that a colleague missed the opportunity because her coalition partner could build a new 50 post prison, so there'd be room for anyone who doesn't have a Danss.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13121	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on these two bill proposals. Number 88 and 89. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, first reading, P.Z. No. 88. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code proposed by the Government of the Republic is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be forwarded to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 86 votes for and 1 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13246	Mr President, I would like to warn you that this point is not my position, as far as I know, taken by any committee, but I am sure that this was not done by the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament, which under Article 61 of our Rules of Procedure is considering the issues of foreign policy of international relations discussed and decided by the Parliament and is considering the international agreements that the Parliament confirms and presents its proposals and opinions to the Parliament. I think it's a very important question, I don't think we should talk about it. And it is also a shame that such an important issue has not been discussed fundamentally for this committee of the Croatian Parliament. I think other committees, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications, should also be discussed on this issue, etc. But the basic committee, which should give a political assessment, so that the members of the Committee may know what this is really about, because some information cannot be obtained only by all MPs, or by not being as much in matter as the board members, it is indeed a real shame. I'm not suggesting anything, Mr. President. But I warn that this is not the way to conduct such important discussions in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13247	Thank you very much. And on 3 October 2003, they held a debate on the proposal for a decision, submitted their reports as well as now the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13248	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is a pleasant duty for me to present this proposal to the Government before the Croatian Parliament, which I believe comes in a moment that is more than important in international terms, the sense of international policy and the accession of Croatia to the European Community. As you know, one decision is mentioned in all European Community documents. It is mentioned in a mild critical tone, a decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea on the enlargement of the ecological fishing zone in the Adriatic, which was made in the Croatian Parliament on 6 October 2003. At the time of the decision, the European Community has already made certain remarks in the sense that the decision is not discussed, in line with the neighbouring countries concerned. It is precisely because of these potential misunderstandings as you know in point 3 of the decision that the Croatian Parliament has adopted the decision that set the date of entry into force, which is one year after its adoption. It is said in Article 3 that the period until the application of the regime will serve to prepare the implementing mechanisms and possible conclusion of agreements and arrangements with interested countries and the European Community. At the time there was also a debate on whether it should be an economic zone or an ecological fishing zone. The decision fell on this second accent. There have been discussions on when to come into force, whether bilateral agreements should be concluded with countries bordering the Adriatic Sea with the Republic of Croatia before. So there was a whole series of misunderstandings. So this, as we remember, has also caused a very heated and above all temperamental debate, which is logical when discussing topics of Croatian state interest and topics that have a significant impact on the Croatian economy. But from this decision to this day, a whole series of changes have occurred with regard to Croatia towards the European Community. As a result, the date of entry into force of this Decision has a new dimension. and I think that today to call for debates from, to the date of this decision, it is not appropriate, simply because much, much, much has happened at this time interval in the great dynamics of Croatia's accession to the European Community. Croatia happened today to be the most serious candidate for negotiations with the European Community. If that status had been given thanks to the last government that did a lot of things and I would have said it was a road trip thanks to the current government that led almost to the goal. And today we are before the 17th of June that will certainly be a historic day for Croatia, in terms of joining the status of the negotiators of the European Community and in terms of setting the starting date of these negotiations, which we sincerely expect and we think that Croatia is just thanks to the continuity of its path towards the European Union. However, before the date comes and before Croatia's fate gets a direction towards Europe or the Balkans, as a conscious government that has put it on the path to continue, strengthen it and complete the way towards the European Community, we have approached an analysis of all possible problems and difficulties which could still be shown by Croatia by that date as a country that is not sufficiently cooperative, which is not mature to negotiate, to agree on a life in a community such as the European Community. This government has decided to make no mistake on that road because it would be a historic mistake. Therefore, we have analysed everything that has happened in connection with this decision and we have identified several things that impose certain doubts on us, that possibly this decision may be a potential difficulty in further negotiations. It should be recalled, however, that even at the time this decision was taken from the European Community, there was an observation and note that before the decision was taken, it should enter into negotiations with interested countries. Well, just because of such announcements, then the Parliament and then the Government as a proposing have delayed the implementation of this agreement by one year. In those year, as I said by intensifying political activities for Croatia's accession to the European Community, it has happened and produced several European Community documents that speak about this particular problem. The first of them is so-called. document recommendations... The European Commission wants the Republic of Croatia to align this decision with the neighbouring countries with which it borders in the Adriatic Sea. The second document is a declaration by the Ministerial Conference on Sustainable Fisheries in the Mediterranean Seas. And the third document that speaks indirectly of this decision is the common fisheries policy of the European Union as the name of the document. As a result, Croatia has started preparations for these negotiations. However, these negotiations do not go in the same way as the dynamics of the accession negotiations for the European Community. and now we have come to the situation that our negotiations with the European Community and the candidate status are in the finish line, so we are ahead of the goal, and the negotiations on the fisheries partnership agreement are not yet at that stage. We have come to a time-limit, which could be used on 17 June as a challenge for our final accession to the European Union, i.e. obtaining candidate status. We haven't found any other obstacles in our analysis. And then we approached the solution. What with the decision to keep it in place, but in a changed form. and that is why we propose to the Croatian Parliament next. That the decision is prolonged, i.e. its entry into force, to delay in the part in which it relates to the countries of the European Community. Therefore, it remains valid for other countries. And during the European Community to extend to complete the negotiations and to reach a partnership agreement in fisheries. We believe that such a decision would remove any difficulties in our soon-to-be fate, about the fate of joining the European Community, so as not to harm the economic interests of the Croatian state at the same time, because negotiations until the conclusion of the fishing agreement would continue and at the same time show another step in our co-operation with the European Community and with its bodies with which we are waiting and negotiations in the future. Here with this explanation I ask you to support this proposal from the Croatian Government and in this way show one common maturity, maturity in moments of historic decisions and that maturity must be above all of our proportions, I would say at a political level for domestic use when the use at the level of safety of Croatia is then these ratios should be suppressed into another plan. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13249	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? The chairman of the Legislative Committee? The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction? Here you go, Mr. Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13250	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, our agreement, though perhaps conditionally this morning morning, was that Prime Minister Sanader would attend the debate over the importance of the topic and all other arguments. Does that mean, since the debate began, that the prime minister would not come or can be expected. In fact, you've come to the conclusion about the whole situation that you're going to try. It would be good to get information about how your efforts ended.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13251	Today is the meeting of the government in Požega, and I hope that the Prime Minister will join us when that session is over and when he comes from Požega. If you haven't delivered the written report yet, then later when the written report comes, you'll explain it. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13252	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, we have long thought about how to talk about this item of the agenda, in the IDS, we decided that the mostportunal is almost from word to word repeat that speech we gave in this assembly on 3 October 2003. It would be just as good if other clubs, I don't know from HDZ to HSLS, today DC, SDP or HSP. But let me take my turn. 3. Ten. In 2003 I spoke in front of the club and literally concluded the speech. I am convinced that we will declare this decision that is this decision that we are now prolonging, that we will have extended the entry into force in 12 months and then the new government will no matter which is going to re-long the entry of it for a future same uncertain period. I didn't know there was going to be a new HDZ government, but I was sure that every future government, no matter what decision it was, would extend for a future uncertain period. And that's exactly what's going on right now. I believe there is no party that would have acted differently from the current government if it had taken responsibility for the leadership of the Republic of Croatia. No one would have done otherwise. And those who would lead the politics of Croatian isolation on this issue would not lead politics in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. That's the IDS Club's opinion. We have not yet decided how to vote for or be abstentioned but surely we will not harm the interest of the Republic of Croatia with our own voice. And so let me read part of the speech of 3. Ten. First, I don't think we're the victim of anyone today and vice versa. I believe from these neighbouring countries of subjects I said, neighbor, no one is a victim. Secondly, as I understand this economic belt, he does not define the border at sea against Montenegro, neither Bosnia and Herzegovina nor Slovenia, although if he declares himself then the Slovenian initiatives to touch their territorial waters with international waters are falling off. Third, there's an open question against Italy. It is clear that the Slovenian fleet on the Adriatic may catch a few thousand tons of fish a year is no danger to anything. And even less competition for anyone. With Italy, the thing is a little different. That's how you just spoke 3. Ten. They're here dominantly present. It means how to deal with Italy by building our fishing industry, or our fleet, which, on average, cost us 55 years at this time, but it clearly doesn't happen overnight. But let me go back to Italy. One who thinks Italy will simply cross that declaration of economic belt or fishing zone is naive. We are fortunate that Croatia and Italy are the first outside and trade partners and I hope that both economies and other countries will say, gentlemen in politics take care of our interests as well. But it is not just as random that recently in September this year, the Italian Parliament, and so I spoke 3. 10th ratified Macedonia's accession agreement with the European Union and on the other hand, the Croatian one has been prolonged. And fourthly, when the announcement of the economic belt is Wednesday, it is our relationship with the European Union. The most important thing is to say that in a fully legitimate initiative such as the declaration of the economic belt, Croatia remained completely alone. We stayed with ourselves and that position being alone in the world isn't always perspective. We have not come across understanding in any European country. Romano Prodi, Javier Solana, Chris Peten, Frans Fischler, has already been expressed, and have already expressed their understanding of Slovenian quote: "concerning". And as you can see, that's how I said three. On the 10th week, two, after my diplomatic success, I will call him Slovenian diplomats silent and work for them done by the European Union. You will also agree that this is very awkward for Croatia and because it strengthens some Slovenian requirements for, say, the Adriatic demarcation and I will only repeat that the demarcation within the Piran Bay as proposed in that paraphrased Racan-Drnovšek agreement for Croatia is unacceptable and therefore it is good that the Croatian government has withdrawn the paraphras. It is clear that in Croatia, i.e. Slovenia has no politicians at this time who could define the demarcation at sea. It's good what's good at this point when we talk about these relationships that at least in Piran Bay there are no fishing incidents and that fishermen don't cross the middle line. However, it is not said that tomorrow, perhaps Italian fishermen, which is precisely in action to fully observe this, will not actually adhere to what we are about to bring today. I would like to do so, however, and to be honest with myself, regardless of which Croatia defends international law, although on the other hand I hear that people from the European Union at this time suggest that no European country has declared an economic belt on the Mediterranean. I also believe that we will not, by applying international law, be punished by prolonging the entry into the European Union. I have no illusion that the European Union will solve all our problems but we gentlemen have no other choice if we do not enter the European Union in 2007 now it will be a little later. I'm afraid we're going to face huge economic, social, one word of civilization problems and the choice is clear only on us. Perhaps it was best to define this current moment and shortly before Mr. Budisha mentioned Mr. Cox who spoke for this Assembly speaker who literally said, "Your gentlemen is a sovereign right to declare an economic belt but yours is also a sovereign right to accept the economic belt, but it is also your sovereign right to accept the consequences of your move." I agree with those who mention it, so I said in 3.10, simply brought it into question. I also read somewhere that Brussels is proposing a compromise in a way that declares the economic belt, freeze it immediately. Today the situation may be slightly different, but it is certainly true that there is no elegant solution for Croatia, and Croatia has found itself in one situation to make a mistake because parties coalitions are obviously against each other leading a pre-election policy both on the economic belt and on international topics. I don't know about solutions. It may not be in winning or pro-longing this issue, for example, by leaving the same new government to, say, solve the issue of the economic belt in the first six months. None of us hold, knows what the European Union will do or what it will do to European Union countries that create one policy. I only know, and so I said in 3.10 that before Brussels, Brussels would resent Zagreb rather than Rome. If I were a gambler in the end, I'd easily vote for it. If I think about what we're going to be exposed to first of all, let's say from the Italian neighbors, I'd think about it one more time. If I were to be sure that our chances of entering the European Union would be reduced then I would be against it. So the alternative is national pride or war, but the ideology of the empty stomach doesn't make you live. This, in my opinion, is not a question of Croatia's survival. Perhaps we will remember, I also spoke to these IDS warnings because the policy "moving, not praying" is a short-term policy ultimately a harmful policy and I also said: Croatia will not make the European Union hostage of our choices, and we, once again I will say, are not enough for ourselves. And once again, a new government will come again, no matter what it may be, it will relong the entry of that decision for a future uncertain period, and so it is, gentlemen. The fact that we were right clearly, neither to us nor to comfort or to benefit ourselves, I would even say that it did us harm, nor will this attitude today likely benefit us. People may see us in some way as freaks in the future, but at least we, I'd say we'd vote for the truth, not for the unfulfilled floscules. Gentlemen, what do you say? So according to that people, everything is coming back, and everything is being paid. And so allow me to once again quote Mr Cox who said about this speaker: “Yours is a sovereign right to declare an economic belt, but yours is also a sovereign right to accept the consequences of your move.” And after that message, at least it wasn't hard for us in the IDS to conclude that some future government, I repeat three times, no matter how many foreigners it belonged to, to extend the entry of the Environmental Fisheries Belt Decision for a future one, I will make it clear at this point in time. I'll repeat: IDS was right a year before the circus. We, not being politically honored, were profited by those who were then against, I will say healthy logic, who spoke not with heart or mind but only with the language of coming to power. Of course, it's largely, I don't mean here on the SDP, made it possible for the former coalition, which, due to several votes, raised that feeling of national size. But in the end, the most expensive game was paid by those who played it. They've lost the election, they've longed for the start of the decision in a year, so 12 months. Undetermined to face the consequences that this force, the force of power, could make decisions, which I would say kind of threw out the country and unnecessary pressure. The happiest thing to live for, believe me, would be IDS. Why? Because the proximity of Croatia's part of Istria with Italy, Slovenia, is right in that part of our Adriatic. But it was clear that if that decision came into force that the greatest consequences would be paid by the Istrians and the real fishermen of Istria. By doing so, the Republic of Croatia. Why the Istrians? Well, first of all, for the sake of a stronger border regime which Slovenia immediately began to introduce. For example, today's phytopathologically, if that's what it's called, fish reviews can no longer be done on the castle or the floats but the fishermen must go up to Rupa or Pasjak, the next day they may have to go to Bregane near Zagreb. Second, because the largest number of Istrians works in Italy. Because the biggest economic interests to Slovenia and vice versa have the Istrians because the most I would say istrians profit from Slovenia and Italy and vice versa and finally because of our economy. The only real export economy in the Republic of Croatia that has no trade deficit is the Istrian economy. Where are you exporting to? Export to Italy, Slovenia, further to the European Union. We warned about it, we were freaks. What we're right today is no use anyway. What we were right about is by my court and this government that does not want to gamble on Croatia's European future, regardless of which it is likely to lose some of its popularity among citizens. However, her work as we at the IDS Club understand it is not only to try to like the people but also to not compromise the perspective of that people who, to lead the country at this moment, are just translating, this one, gave to the people who make up the Croatian government today. Whoever thinks that, I don't know, we for God's sakes are enough for ourselves, that we don't know maybe more beautiful, smarter than everyone else, I don't think he thinks Croatia well. And the one who thinks that in that old European sea, in that Mediterranean where this civilization is nickeled, on our Adriatic, we're just gonna drive someone out of international waters no matter what the international law says, I think he's naive. Especially if someone thinks that someone else isn't going to react to our behavior. I absolutely respect all international conventions, but the path we chose before the circus a year after my court was guilty. And I'll end it. Whenever any greater interest is subordinated to the electoral interest, then reason, logic, and those who take these unrealistic promises, as well as those who trust those unreal promises. The best example is this fishing ecological zone of ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13253	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13254	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Croatian Parliament, I have been a representative since 1992, and unfortunately I have been often a witness to a debate in the Croatian Parliament when it was tried and some things warned, at least open up as a problem. ... This opening of the problem or warning of some, in some facts, was treated in the worst possible way. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether you had any unpleasant questions about European integration that you were a skeptic of the euro, if you advocated some fundamental rights of the Croatian people to stand up for, for isolationism or for being a nationalist or a whole series of other situations, for example if you opened the issue of cooperation with the Hague court that you were not against the law of general forgiveness that you are against tolerance, co-existence and a whole series of such qualifications after which it is difficult to speak without any real emotion and refrain from responding to what is little to this speaker, related to that political option which has a diametrically contradictory view of what College Cain has just mentioned here. If this were said by the Ambassadors of Italy, Mr Grafini, I would understand that, if the Croatian parliamentary representative spoke then it is not appropriate to disqualify all those representatives who will speak against the delay of the application of the Croatian ecological fishing zone in the Adriatic. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Party are entitled to two days of intense debate on this problem that was found at the benches of the Croatian Parliament. We expected that on the eve of these days, we would have a report from the Croatian Government on what the Croatian Government has done in the last 12 months to create assumptions that, when declaring this fishing ecological zone, we will agree to have relations with neighbours in a way that is specific to the entry and navigation of the Adriatic Sea of all tankers of other ships that carry dangerous or harmful goods on quotas and other conditions of exploitation of fish species by the Reibar boards in our economic belt. In addition to the compensation provided for in Article 62 of the Treaty, the The Convention on the Law of the Sea. The measures to preserve the ecosystem and the management measures to live sources of the entire Adriatic Sea and so on. And unfortunately, we have received a proposal to postpone the application of the Croatian ecological fishing zone in the Adriatic. In his speech, the Deputy Prime Minister just before practically opened this as a problem for one of the problems opened on Croatia's path towards European integration, and in the first one, on behalf of the Croatian Party's Club of Rights and I will give our view and thought, of this move by the Croatian Government. We will not support this delay in the application of the Croatian ecological fishing zone in the Adriatic. Because we bother that it is not based on Croatian national interests and if some think it is a policy of isolationism, we hold that the Croatian people as the strongest weapon in this situation is right. The right to leave and consume the right that can actually be an ideally strong and powerful asset through international conventions in further efforts and negotiations of Croatia's entry into the European Union. You know well that we as a party have joined all the paraliamentary parties in Croatia in adopting a declaration of resolution on the European Union, when all the political parties of parliament agreed to the views by accepting certain criteria of the European Union, in order for Croatia to achieve its one I will not say, but rather one means to achieve a more qualitative and better life. And that is certainly the European Union. And here, not simply by supporting this parliamentary resolution, we have accepted the Copenhagen criteria of accepting a whole series of things and conditions that set some standards for all those who want to be a member of the European Union. But in this resolution, for sure and the Copenhagen criteria, it does not appear anywhere that Croatia would have to give up its rights arising from the convoys and charters of the united peoples. According to this, the fishing band was established on the basis of a decision taken in the Croatian Parliament on the basis of the International Convention on the Law of the Sea of 82nd year, and as such it was legally based. All modern maritime countries, including the vast majority of European Union countries, have consumed this right, and protected their interrests. Bulgaria and Romania have declared a belt in full shape, and this is not a difficult environment on their way to the European Union. The belt has been progoverned and used by more than 125 countries in the world, and the basic strategy of fishing development and reflection is based on the belt. Here with us this decision was visible between the lines of what the Deputy Prime Minister said and what we all know that the only real problem in this case is the possibility of vetoing further processes of Croatiaskle towards European integration, i.e. the pluralisation of the Italian and Slovenian sides for their interests. I would like to remind the public, and we here in the Parliament that after the parliamentary elections there was an interview....Embassies in one Croatian newspaper, in which it was said that the Croatian party of rights is not acceptable to the European Union because you imagine miracles, the Croatian Party of Rights believes that Croatia should be a member of the European Union but in a manner both fast and pace that corresponds to Croatian national interests. This is what his Excellency told the Croatian public that there are no national interests in the European Union, but they are consummated by the very entry of each individual member into the European Union. If that's why we have in Zagreb today 25 ambassadors to the members of the Eurospa Union, and if that's how it is then Chicago's interests are protected by Italy when it asks Croatia and insists that Croatia practically postpones de facto giving up its right that it has not yet consummated. The only real problem is this, which can be removed from the words of the Italian fisheries sub-secretary Mr. Paolo Scarp Bonaca, who told Croatia ultimatically. We will never agree to be excluded from the waters in which we have always fished because 800 Italian fishermen and 4000 Italian families today exist on fish fishing in that part of the Adriatic in which the Republic of Croatia declared its ecological fishing zone. If each of these 800 Italian fishermen catches fish in value per day of an average of 1000 euros with 200 working days, this year means a catch of a fisherman worth at least 160m euros. And these are only the minimum estimated values. And about the Slovenes not to talk. The opposition of Slovenia is not caused by purely fishing reasons, as Slovenia has 39 professional fishermen. Slovenia wants to move the border line at sea to reach the gas lilies in the Northern Adriatic. So they protect their national interests, to which they have their legitimate right as the Croatian state has the legitimate right to protect its interests. Just before this debate began, a journalist asked me, and it says well, whether you and your colleague Cain have simplified the debate, whether you are for a fishing ecological zone or for the European Union. I said I was a European Union in which the neighbouring countries will not be blackmailing their neighbours to consume their right or Croatia in a specific case to consummate the right to fishing ecological zones, so I said to the end that I am primarily for the fishing ecological area of the zone. If this is the reason that Croatia cannot be a member of the European Union, then it is not even a place for it to be in such a society where those who are ahead will use their position to impoverish their neighbor, to humiliate him to underestimate him, and to finally bring him into a completely dependent state of mind. And those who say that we can't survive on our own, clearly we can't just survive on ourselves, but it's still dr. Ante Starcevic said that those who speak d'as we little weak d we can't survive ourselves is a foreign policy, which is trying to bring suspicion to the Croatian people that one of the oldest people is in these areas. And that just because he was tough, he managed to survive, to know how to stand up to his neighbors. And to everyone else. It is clear from the atom that we are for the European Union, it is clear that the Government wants to speed up this process, but it is clear that sometimes we are in a situation of division of Croatian politics. We think this is a split. As a party, we supported, for example. The ratification of the former state's succession. It wasn't easy for us. It was unfair, according to Croatia immoral, we were also robbed through it as we robbed 70 years of the common state, but we estimated that we would succeed in making up for material good. There will come a time when there will be better politics and better politicians and a better economy and we will succeed in some positions that we will compensate for material loss only to get away from those who have always exhausted us and not to speak any further pathetic words. So that's what we were for. We supported, I said, and the Copenhagen criteria, all of which we have done to help not only this government but also the former government in these processes of Croatia's entry into the European Union, but there are times when the Justice Party cannot support the denial of its right. Because you are a party of rights and bear your name through your history which has been clearly spoken of that on the basis of Croatian state law we are accomplishing what other nations have. If we gave up what belongs to us, therefore, when we take international obligations upon ourselves, then if we accidentally fail to meet them and how someone imagines we have to fulfill them, such as. The Hague prosecution, then uses all the instruments of pressure, diplomatic, economic, each other to honour Croatia's commitments. And if Croatia should consume something that goes hand in hand by international law, such as the Convention on the Law of the Sea, because we are grateful to God for the position we are in and our geostrategic position must be our value, not our heavy circumstance, then there are millions of countless reasons to give up those rights that we have to give up and more of something, some higher goal for which no one can yet objectively say what it means. And simplify the political debate in the way of this better... If I had a good accent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry if maybe I don't have this one. This is not worthy of the level of this Croatian Parliament, because the Croatian Parliament should otherwise not exist, if it only has to carry out as a technical service of the Government or Parliament to support it. Everything, I would say, not only the conditions, but I would say even the wishes of certain international factors so that Croatia would get some status that in perspective still does not mean God knows what to the Croatian people. Therefore, both pragmatism and politics can be understood, but I say, this is a situation where the Croatian Party of Rights cannot provide this kind of support. In fact, we think that a great deal of damage has already been done in advance by this proposal to postpone the application of the Croatian ecological and fishing zone in the Adriatic, especially from the aspect of Slovenia, which makes it possible to create circumstances with such moves and others, in the Croatian Sea, so that from the obvious possible arbitration, relations between Croatia and Slovenia in the labelling of Piran Bay, we can come to a position to go to arbitration much better than they could if we had always stuck to what our international right guaranteed. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament has the task and the role of defending the right of Croatian people, the government must do its part, try to impose its policy, its solutions, but MPs must have the obligation to defend the Croatian right which such a proposal has put at risk. As a Justice Party, we won't be able to support that. Also, we reject all those statements that say that those who otherwise think that, I don't know, God, that... through the people of God's day, to go towards isolationism and I don't know all the other things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We just want to speak with arguments, arguments are on our side and legal and political any experts of international law ask, arbitration law, how Croatia stands after the possible adoption of this delay. Everyone will tell you that our position with possible arbitration with Slovenia is much, much worse than it was a few years ago. In that name, I appeal to all MPs and to the Government to think this through because if this kind of blackmail has taken place for Croatia at this stage, we will give up something that is the Charter of the United Nations, the United Nations Convention, which we will expect only when we arrive at the stage of the real negotiations in 2005, as announced to the European Union. Well, everyone will see that we are missing every step, that we are prepared to do whatever is asked of us, and it will certainly not lead to good, and our journey to Europe will be much, much harder than we act as a serious, solid sovereign state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13255	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13256	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. I appreciate and respect every opinion and so does Mr. Djapic, president of the Croatian party of law. But he can't impute to me whether I'm for the future like this or the kind of Croatian citizens. I am for the future of every Croatian citizen who will have a perspective in a neatly structured state who cannot be in conflict with everyone because in this conflict...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13257	Comrade Cain, what are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13258	...and Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13259	Comrade Cain, please correct the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13260	Well, he called me three times unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13261	What are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13262	About the future, that I am against some future citizen of Croatia. I did listen. We'll be fine, gentlemen, we'll have a safe salary, but for the citizens, and even the rhubarbs, they'll be much, much harder.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13263	Minister Hebrang, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13264	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I read both of these speeches in the direction of preserving and supporting the interests of the Republic of Croatia, and I read this little temperament as a spice because the core of one and the other exposure went in the direction of the interest of the Republic of Croatia. I would just like to say two things here for Mr. Djapic's presentation that I didn't obviously arrive at in the opening speech, and then perhaps it was misrepresented because of my mistake or lack of explanation. I mean, I want to deny it, there's no blackmail and there's no veto and there's no sign of veto. Now I'm going to say, I'm going to explain why. Because in the negotiations on the ecological fishing zone of the Member States of the European Union and Italy and Slovenia, they transferred their negotiating sovereignty to the European Union. So they don't say veto to each other. We see how the European Union will react, and there is a possibility, since there are a whole series of indications, and I quoted them in the opening statement, that these misunderstandings could delay the vote in Croatia. Surely, the veto will not be because these countries have passed on their negotiating sovereignty and probably would not veto the role as representatives of the state. But in question, it would result in a European Union statement that there is a warning regarding this decision given on the day of its adoption, which has been the subject of certain disputes during all these months, which some quoted both Mr Cain and Mr Djapic. Therefore, we here believe that this is a potentially possible problem and therefore we choose less for the future of Croatia between the two possible evils. We believe that the delay, therefore, I repeat, is less evil than the delay of not all decisions but in the part in which the European Union is concerned as our negotiating sides, than that of going to that risk. So, once again, there was neither blackmail nor any indication that it could be veto. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13265	On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go. My colleagues and colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13266	Thank you very much, thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. We are not just talking about a protected ecological fishing zone here today, we are talking about the continuity of the behaviour of politicians, we are talking about the relationship of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union, we are talking about a much more complex topic. So allow a very short quote from the General Encyclopedia, which says: "Cameleon is a genus of tromical lizards from the sub-species of Riptoplas, adapted to life on a tree, a variety of distributions of chromophores in the skin rapidly change the color either under the influence of external content, temperature or light, or internal hunger, fear, anger, etc. Motor nerves on one side of the body work independently on nerves on the other side of the body." In the dictionary of Croatian language, the chameleon shows – a twister. I ask myself a question to myself and to you whether there is an original term to call in politics those individuals who at any moment change their views in essentially national issues which are often on the verge of full negation of earlier positions, regardless of whether or not they come under the influence of external or internal aspirations. This debate may also provide answers to these questions, although the subject is much more serious, much more subtle. I dare say here it is, however, a fundamental issue of the Republic of Croatia's relationship with the international community and the ability of our government to deal with an important topic. Being open and constructive towards the international community, not endangering your own dignity and identity. I think that's actually a fundamental question. The analysis of just a few events recently refused to discuss The Hague in this House, the amendment of the VAT Act, Protocol 7, brought some confusion to the public, and finally this topic of protected ecological fishing zones. Whether ultimatum, although there is a short time ago we have heard that there are no, the Hague Prosecutor's Office, the International Monetary Fund, the European Union may be announcing some new international relations, perhaps some new totalitarianism of the economic political category or we simply do not know how to deal with these issues, and that is why you want to achieve maximum targets sometimes easily listen to and accept everything offered. I must remind this House that the previous government was in a similar situation. The previous government was not amnested by these pressures, by demands, etc. But we've been dealing with these demands. We didn't whine, we didn't cry, we carried on, we negotiated, we explained, we went through, we looked for solutions, and in all the cases we had discussed, we found. That is why I here today, Mr. Vice-President of the Government very openly and clearly ask whether there are any ultimatums, whether there are any conditions, whether there is something that Croatia will not get a certain status, move, etc. I just don't believe in ultimatums. I prefer to believe in that other variant that you want with little energy to achieve much and that in that case you neglect actually the fundamental fact that to be correct, to be constructive, and to protect your own dignity and your own identity is a very difficult job. I think the way in which the government of the Republic of Croatia behaves today actually comes to the pinnacle of the protected ecological fishing zone, i.e. the belt. If that were the highlight of the change in attitude, I would not quote the presentations of today's Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, who, in fact, would have taken his quotes out just about six months ago from October 3rd last year, would have clearly coincided with our views. I understand that there's been some change, but that so many salts of mortality can happen, it's just amazing. And that's why I dare say, this is the highlight of depravity and the peak of change of opinion on important national topics. Why do I say that and why do I dare say that? I held a session on October 3, 2003, when the decision was made. I witnessed personally that day all the important events here in the hall, but also outside the hall, everything that happened behind closed doors. I had all the information. I attended all the deals, but I wasn't involved in the deals under quotes, but I have information about them, too. Whether or not individuals participated in these agreements under quotes, whether with the knowledge of their political bosses, I simply don't know, but here I am responsible for saying that this day in the Croatian Parliament prepared the worst variant, that we should remain without an exclusively economic belt and without a protected ecological fishing zone. Even the HSP gentlemen didn't realize that day because they insisted on an exclusively economic belt and apparently ignored this fact that I'm talking about. So few people knew exactly what it was about. The HSS realized, I personally, as the then president of the Parliament, figured out what was going on. We have planted our backs, we have written amendments, we have given up the amendment, we have changed the amendments and finally succeeded in the coalition to get the strength all together to offer a compromise solution that is now called a decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea. A decision that's great. A decision that will not be applauded for a few years, and which today gives Croatia the opportunity to protect its national interests. So it is not clear to me that we are trying in such an extremely easy way to get away from that quality decision. I remember the tirad well, here from this pay phone that lasted up to 22 hours and 30 minutes. All of you have phonograms at your disposal. You can all read these phonograms, and that's why I'm not going to quote them, and I believe we're going to hear a lot of these phonograms in the debate today. However, there is one notor fact that, even after this Parliament's decision to declare a protected zone, on the day we received a positive avis in the draft Council decision of 20 April 2004, the following was recorded literally: To assess together with the European Commission and interested neighbouring countries, and in particular with Slovenia and Italy, the consequence of the fishing activity in the ecological and fishing area which Croatia unilaterally declared in October 2003 in order to make appropriate solutions in order to ensure the continuation of the fishing activity of the community in the Croatian fisheries area. So there are no conditions for the European Union, it simply asks Croatia to assess the consequences of fishing activity in the Adriatic so that the most appropriate solutions can be found. So there is no deadline, there is nothing, it simply asks Croatia to evaluate along with its neighbours so that it can access the negotiations later on. If this quote is correct, and I believe that because I received it directly from Brussels, then I ask the Government, which happened in the meantime that the European Commission significantly sharpens the relationship with the Republic of Croatia if it sharpens it or what happened in our heads that despite such a mild assessment of the European Commission and the Council we are now asking for a delay in the application of this agreement, or decision. We have absolutely no reason to, there is no need to raise any temperature about it because obviously the European Union has been kind to us here too. If it is something else, what Mr Djapic was talking about, if the appetites of Slovenia and Italy have now increased, and if they are threatening a veto or if they are asking the European Union today as full members of the European Union, then it is another question, but we require that here from this assembly pay phone to state what it is. According to the documents available to us all there are no conditions, no ultimatum and no need to change our decision. What happened in the meantime that the Croatian public and Croatian representatives simply don't know? That's the kind of answer I expect during the debate. For such a decision, the Croatian Peasant Party will not vote, but we have a proposal that came today from the Croatian FISH, which is the only one who knows the situation regarding the fish fund in the Adriatic Sea. They very detailedly analyse the fact that the visible and scientific confirmed and worrying state of resources in the protected ecological fishing band of the Republic of Croatia on the Adriatic, which is on the verge of biological restoration. So that's what fishermen say, says scientists. On the verge of biological restoration. Respecting the European Commission's conclusions on fishing in the Mediterranean, which call on coastal states to extend their jurisdiction beyond their territorial waters, and fishermen know that. Starting with the fact that if the decision to implement this decision is delayed, that large part of the Adriatic will remain out of the application of any law and be left to further uncontrollable fishing and devasting. They further remind in this letter that a day in the Croatian protected area of the belt fishermen about a thousand Italian fishermen. These thousands of Italian fishermen are mostly carts, which are irrevocably destroying shared resources, thereby benefiting only from themselves, but not from the Republic of Croatia. And it is not worth mentioning the fact that if we postpone the application of this decision we will temporarily not know how much time we will give up the protection and economic exploitation and control of economic exploitation at 23 thousand square kilometers of the Adriatic Sea. And that is why fishermen are very wisely proposing to this Parliament to appeal to the parliamentary representatives, that instead of this decision to amend the decision we prohibit fishing in this part of the Adriatic, so on these 23,000 square kilometres of seas to all, both Croatians and Slovenians and Italians. To rebuild the fish fund. For a year, a quality monitoring and scientific research on the real biological state of the fish fund in the Adriatic Sea can be established, and that only behind this is access to negotiations, but with known scientific data on how real the resources are, how much Croatia will exploit and how much other countries can be given. In case you do not accept such a proposal from Croatian fishermen, the HSS will vote against this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13267	Thank you. Please don't. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Marijan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13268	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear Representative Tomcic argued that the politics led by the HDZ and the Croatian government are not able to deal with the challenges leading to Europe. Well, Mr. Tomcic is exactly your position under this law declaring an ecological fishing zone on the Adriatic, whose prolonging today is on the agenda, as well as your position, your party's position on Protocol 7, your relationship with the laws that comply with the laws on the European Union, that the HSS to the exit doors in the association of the European People's Party, where you are seriously considering shutting down your party. And unfortunately for you, HDZ...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13269	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13270	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13271	Correction of the incorrect quote, Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13272	I'm not saying tipping off on this government. The peak of depravity and the great culprit in the former government for giving up the economic belt is Zlatko Tomcic and his HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13273	Okay. Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13274	So, you've stayed in the lurch and HSS and the current opposition. And for the sake of the public, it's good to know in what circumstances that was happening at the time. So, never consistent and rightly this mess as you pass them, well and pass...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13275	Thank you very much. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13276	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There were several questions in Mr. Tomcic's presentation, so I feel the need to answer them. First of all, the demand for a fisherman who is truly correct comes from people who are most directly affected by all of this that we are discussing today, the requirement to completely suspend each other or from all three sides to one time the fishing, is indeed justified and smart, but I believe that it can only be reached in agreement, so that we cannot go to a ban without an agreement and it can become and accept an integral part of our further negotiations. And as for the problem of fishermen. Our technological backlog behind our neighbours is the main target to be shot at and I think they should be raised to that technological level at the moment of accession to the European Community to be equal to our neighbours and that there is a main way out for our fishermen. The questions were first according to some politicians' swings. So they say art politics is possible. I would say that today's situation in Europe, and when this decision has been made, it is very different. And that many of you and us, regardless of what I wasn't active in then, definitely changed their attitude, because the circumstances changed. We are today ahead of a fateful decision, whether or not to be a candidate negotiator. When this decision was made, it was far ahead of us. Therefore, changing attitudes in politics does not necessarily mean negative. I would definitely deny it for another time if there were any veto, you asked Mr. Tomcic that question, no ultimatum and veto exists, there's only our analysis of all possible problems, and you yourself quoted that in AVI as one of the little problems, one of the "small pucks" was just mentioning this, here the decision we're talking about, that it wasn't set up as an ultimatum, but that it was said to examine this problem with our neighbours the fishing ecological zone, and to assess the consequences. We haven't been able to do that yet, of course. That's one of the reasons why we're looking for this delay. "Why didn't she do your government" to say by quotes, because these are all our governments, because you didn't make it because it was a short term. We didn't deal with our problem deeply, because we had to deal with the AVI problem as a priority. So, I don't think we can take the blame here right now, because every government has done the maximum it could under the circumstances. And just a few words if I can talk about Cameleon. It was very funny and Cameleon is a really antipathic animal that changes colors, which adjusts the moment to this. But I have to warn you, that's why he lives in the jungle.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13277	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13278	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting the wrong allegations of the minister, who says he didn't know it then. So here's to correct, I'm going to quote the current prime minister, then the representative of Mr. Ivo Sanader, who is 3. 6. I said "that the Croatian Union cannot put pressure on this, I say with full responsibility, it cannot pressure Croatia not to declare an economic belt. And if he were not mistaken and says himself, I am aware of my words that I am speaking here for the Croatian Parliament speaker, but I am aware that in the 1990s Croatia did not want to be in the international community and that we did not rely on everyone together, if there were no consensus of the general, national, we would not be discussing Croatia today.".
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13279	Okay. On behalf of the HSLS Club, DC, the Honorable Representative of the Czech Republic. Please, no love statements.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13280	I think this statement from my neighbor, Lonchar, is inappropriate. Ivo, the statement is inappropriate, Mr. President. As a little feminized guy, I think it's really inappropriate. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Croatian Social Liberal Party, and then and today, I am determined to oppose all laws that have delayed application. To pass laws and, in the very act of passing, to delay the application of these laws, not only when it comes to this subject but also about many other laws. Let me remind you that we have adopted one in my opinion and in our opinion from the most important laws for the future development of our country the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Science, and then we have delayed the application of that same law or the most important provisions of that Law there for 2008. Thus, by passing laws with delayed application practically means that, in the very act of passing these laws, we suspect that they are enforceable or that reality cannot be adapted to the legal provisions or that the legal provisions themselves cannot adapt reality to you. The laws of the ladies and gentlemen exist in order to begin to comply, to become rules of practice for all of us, from those who sit here as a legislative body and pass laws to those who, by applying these laws, do something good to themselves or even those who may have some important interests in the application of these laws. And when we passed this Law on the Protected Ecological Fishing Belt, we practically knew we were going to postpone it, we delayed it for a year and we were aware as counterpart Cain said, I agree, that the new government would have to postpone the application of this law again. As if tomorrow came another government don't give God in some new election no matter who has the key and decisive words in that government. I know it's hard to say, as Tin Ujević says in his ear of pride, and that you would be very happy to have the elections immediately discussed, but you had a chance about 3 or 4 months ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13281	My colleagues and colleagues, this is carried directly across Croatia and beyond. The satire evening ended yesterday. Please, let's get serious.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13282	So if you let me move on. We were then aware that we would pass the law, that we would postpone the application of this law, we decided for a year but in advance planning because the current opposition thought, she intended then to remain in office and remain in power. And it was quite clear that in those years we could not afford our neighbours to Slovenia and Italy to agree. It was quite clear in particular with the bad foreign policy that the former government had led that we would never agree with the Slovenians, even less with the Italians, and it was quite obvious that we had already planned and further extension of this delay. And today we are again standing before the fact that on the one hand we want to, I would not speak in the first place about national interests, but perhaps I would talk about other interests and economic interests of fishermen in the interests of the indigenous local population in Istria, the maritative, tourist and other interests, it was already quite clear at that time that we will not be able to protect these interests in this way, mainly not by delaying the application of this Law. What we have failed to do in that year, however, is try to get our neighbours to agree, that in those year, bilateral foreign policy initiatives, in particular, towards Slovenia and Italy, we do everything possible to reach some kind of agreement. The fact is that in these 4 years, 5, 6 or as much as you want recent Croatian history, our relations with Slovenians and Italians have practically not moved further from the point we were right after the outbreak of war and the fact is that today we may have the worst relations even though we have had opportunities to fix that relationship. And as it usually happens, the same is the fact that Italy was among the first in the European Union and that the Slovenians got there before us. And I don't know ladies and gentlemen any pictures other than that Bible picture when John Apollo comes before Peter's goal so he's waiting for him I don't know any other pictures throughout history that those who came first to the goal of waiting for those who came behind them. The Slovenians have entered the European Union today, the Italians have been there a long time ago and it is quite clear and it is quite legitimate when they seek to protect their interests through the European Union, so it seemed to us often and as much as we didn't like it, so the macaque and we thought that they were jeopardizing our national interests. I warned a year ago, and today I also warn that despite the fact that we did not agree with the Slovenians and the Italians, despite the fact that we often and sharpened the paraphrases of the Piran Bay agreement that we often entered into more severe conflicts, it did not bother Slovenians to double their exports to Croatia, that they do not have, that I am not talking about the surplus in the foreign trade with Croatia that, from year to year, their economy is increasingly present, so I would say more and more dominantly in the Croatian economy, in Croatian hospitality and in the Croatian market and in the Croatian market, and that, unfortunately, from year to year, we are recording a growing deficit in the external trade level with Slovenia, and that we are practically exporting less and more and more exporting from Slovenia. Therefore, we have not been able to agree with our neighbours, and now we expect candidate status, and more and more importantly we expect the start of negotiations by the spring of next year, and it is perfectly natural that, by calving on our European future, we must a little lessen or perhaps even give up some articles, some provisions, some provisions, some decisions and some of our interests that we have talked about in the Assembly so far. But I must also say quite openly on behalf of HSLS and DC if the European Union in any way would be diplomatic, perhaps even officially trying to blackmail Croatia and if the condition that we could even discuss candidate status and start negotiations was that we would withdraw such a decision we would be first against it. We certainly do not need a European perspective that will already be closed in advance or in which the door will only be partially opened. So we're not talking about suspending this decision by the end of this decision, we're going to give it up, we're only talking about postponing it, and we're going to do exactly what the former government did, and so we're going to make one law with a delay again. I therefore think it is good to consider how we will agree with Italy and Slovenia, to postpone the application of this Law and to do everything on a bilateral initiative and towards the European Union to agree with our neighbours and to conclude a fisheries agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13283	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13284	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I'm correcting Mr. Czecho's guilty allegations that all parties have a chance to fight the election. In Croatia, this does not apply to all parties. Some parties, regardless of political struggle, are always with the winner. So I am particularly pleased that the problem of Krško is no longer a problem of digging in trenches, but now that it is more of a national interest such as the belt, such as the Adriatic, should actually be negotiated. And when we talked about Krško or the border with Slovenia, then we couldn't negotiate. So with those camels green we have some other camels that are a little bit already, they're mostly yellow.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13285	The Camelots have different species. On behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative of Tonino Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13286	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Designed not to allow the conflict of two vital national interests, the country's entry into the European Union and the effective protection of resources on the Adriatic Sea of Parliament's decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea from October of last year should not only bridge the period before a conference on sustainable fisheries in the Mediterranean, and expected already positive reactions of the European Union to our membership bid, but should have been put in place by the political and international legal framework of the late attempts of systematic protection of our part of the Adriatic aquarium. Because of then and unfortunately of the current circumstances, 22,000 square kilometres of sea area under new jurisdiction should be protected from the unregulated and excessive exploitation of other countries, but also from the unrealistic and irresponsible political exploitation of part of domestic policy. Last year's assembly session, which discussed various proposals but inspired by the same motives of protection not only of our Adriatic, was marked by party impatience, pre-election slogans, and even world-famous projections. The reference to the circumstances in which we have submitted the proposal for a decision on the belt has been welcomed as cowardice, bargaining and even as a lack of national consciousness. In the acuteed atmosphere of the advocacy to declare the exclusive economic band, firstly, arguments were excluded on how, I quote: “The exclusive economic belt represents a concept which rests on the logic of exclusion, a logic which is a party to the European Union while instead insisting on the concept of protection as more recent and which can only be effectively achieved through cooperation.” The argument also did not help that the only difference in content between the exclusively economic belt and the proposal from the then government is in obtaining electricity from the difference of tides and tides, sea currents and windmills that can be built at sea. Unfortunately, they are chasing the windmills, reminding the opposition at that time that as far as the legal dimension is concerned, the legal basis is identical to the level of legal protection between the economic belt and the declaration of its specific functions, which we called ZER in the proposal. Only illustrations do, as now sounds the argument of then the opposition representative of the Croatian Democratic Community, and today the high leader of this home, to quote: "Romano Prodi is not a Dane but an intervention as an Italian," and that since 2007, those who fear us that the European Union will close the door for this and that reason should say, there will be 1,000 more conditions Croatia will have to meet whenever they want to say any banal thing. They'll put that on us, we'll run forever and go after something conditional. The same esteemed colleague wanted to point out that I quote: “We, by declaring an economic belt, respect the applicable Convention on the Law of the Sea brought by the United Nations. By declaring that belt, we will worship more as a state. We will have a stronger negotiating position with Italy regarding the further use of our part of the sea." I am not for today's debate to be reduced to political autopsy of the debate at the time, but it is good to remind ourselves of the situation so that similar arguments and the logic of the competition are avoided now that the stakes are even greater. The objection that the proposal would cause problems with the neighbours with which we border at sea tried to remove a 12-month clause from the moment of entry into force of the Decision until its application. The period until the application of the regime was started should serve to prepare the implementing mechanisms and to make possible arrangements and arrangements with interested countries and the European Union. What was done in the meantime? The domestic legislation is not adjusted, no agreement has been reached with the neighbours, the current European Commission is running out of mandate, and the new one will be in office only at the end of the year. Let me just inform the esteemed representative of the Czech Republic about the failures of new diplomacy. On 15 December 2003, a week before the confirmation of the Government of Ivo Sanader, the European Commission's Director-General for Fisheries, Jorgen Honkvist, sent a letter to the Permanent Representative of the European Union, Ms. Mladneo. The Commission offers the start of expert talks and editing the fishing aspect of the band between the Republic of Croatia and the Union, given Croatia's future membership in the Union. The government hasn't responded to this offer in five months. Instead of accepting the offer of a fisheries administration, the government proposes trilateral political consultations with Italy and Slovenia at the level of state secretaries. Let me remind you that Slovenia has persistently avoided political consultations and has reduced them to a purely professional level of conversation. In the background of such a policy, there was a clear intention that the Croatian decision was subsequently shown as one-sided or taken without consulting the neighbours. Let me react to something that's still a much newer date. I am truly sorry that the Prime Minister, Mr Ivo Sanader, is not here with us today because it would be good to comment live if fina really passed along with her said in Požega that Croatia had the right to extend its jurisdiction on the Adriatic, but she claimed that the past government had failed to prepare those decisions to consult with the European Union and the European Commission. The chronology of our efforts to fight for the more favourable position of desire before the Venice conference is easy to prove, but I do feel dissatisfaction that the prime minister is not with us today, not that he faced us in the debate of the nervous system to face Eve Sanader, who before we give eight months who spoke only eight months ago, therefore no matter how much we may be told by someone, Croatia still has no candidate status, so he can't even get involved in European affairs. He can get involved in European affairs. I believe that Croatia has a sovereign right as every other country declares to exclude the Economic Belt from being angry, so please let it be nice to be angry with those who have adopted the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. There are some moments in which we must take the risk. And let's not close our eyes, the Italian carriages come to our part of the Adriatic catching fish, and they have no right to do so. And that's what we're talking about. Now that the Italians are rebelling against me, it's logical for them to object because they will no longer have the right to do so if we declare that economic belt. Not only have we not declared an economic belt, but the Government's proposal is that they also give up on the ecological ecological fisheries belt. However, we must also show correctness for the sake of political circumstances in which we are discussing the same subject is not simple today. The time to reflect the meeting at the European Union summit on 17 and 18 June was and there will be a sensitive period of pressure on Croatia to approve serious concessions to interested countries and before membership negotiations begin. And which means the withdrawal of moves in Croatia that do not correspond to individual countries we felt in the delay of the ratification process of our Stabilisation and Association Agreement in the Roman Parliament. Unfortunately, and in this proposal of the Government to supplement the decision and extend the jurisdiction on the Adriatic, we are discussing under the shadow of the ultimatum. Veta even. Only today it is the opposition of one part of the European Union, or the European Union, that was yesterday a uncompromising rejection of the belt by the Croatian Democratic Community. We already feel colleagues and colleagues not expanding Croatian jurisdiction in the Adriatic but the effects of extending the European Union to Slovenia. Proclaimed and often demanded cooperation from Croatia in the European spirit is certainly not the imposition of a common society but the harmonisation of national interests. Because of this, some lack of explanation of the trilaterals, Italy, Slovenia and Croatia in the exploitation of the Adriatic with a vacuum that can be created by the Zerpa is not far from the European packaging for Italy's quest to maintain the status quo in overfishing on the Adriatic and Slovenian aspirations of something different. However, a delay in the application of the belt will not mean avoiding obvious asymmetry in the future negotiation process. The Croatian position, contrary to all Italians, will be limited by the constant reminders of Rome to the necessity of the Italian flood by the final reception of our country into the European Union. Slovenia will neither be less twisted when it comes to its interests. In this issue, Croatia has international rights on all sides, but there is no international community, at least it has the most important part of the European Union in its dream. It should be made public that the postponement of the application of the protected organic fisheries band is a capital concession in order to make a capital contribution to the June European Council. The candidate status of the event shall be limited even if it is not until the next year of the start of the negotiations on Croatia's membership in the European Union. In addition to the Parliament's decision to declare the belt, the government submitted a report last October on the possibilities and practices of expanding the Adriatic jurisprudence that are still relevant today. And it's a plastic rhythm and contents of the Adriatic devastation over the past half century. Shouldn't delay the declaration of the belt until the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement between the communities and Croatia only stimulate the fishing fleets of the European countries in particular Italy to hurry up with fishing while they still can. A similar question arises from the teaching of fishermen faced with this possibility. Is it possible to put the most vulnerable part of the sea on its kind of garage as a agricultural resource, a statistic that has since said that Italy is in the Adriatic to catch an annual 200 thousand Croatia 20 and Slovenia barely 2000 tonnes. In addition, delaying or giving up the belt also means not applying ecological standards in the wider Adriatic area, and in other words, giving up European job in the protection of the sea after 1 May is even more European sea. In order to establish an unquestioned consensus about Croatia in the European Union, but also not by asking for a consensus in Croatia on the accession of the European Union, the SDpa Club submitted aamdman on the proposed decision in question to supplement the decision to extend Croatia's jurisdiction to the Adriatic Sea. The purpose of the amendments is to replace the postponement of the application of the ecological fishing band to members of the European Union by negotiating and concluding a temporary agreement on the ecological protection of the Adriatic Sea between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community. Following a similar interim agreement actuating certain articles of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement to its complete ratification in all European Union members. My colleagues and colleagues, the debate on the same topic in the same place only provides a time-out of 8 months. The Republic of Croatia is fortunately closer to the European Union but unfortunately is just as far away from applying its Adriatic system protection. Most protagonists are still discussing in the same or similar way today, except for the representative of one party. It's for some disappointment but for most of the facts that doesn't cause too much surprise. Given that the brief history of the government's effects is actually the chronology of withdrawing from problems and giving up too easily given promises. Fortunately, it occasionally has adverse effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13287	Minister Hebrang. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13288	I thank Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen only two three answers to some of the old ones who have to get an answer so they don't stay unsaid. In fact, Mr. Representative Tonino Picula said that Croatian diplomacy has been doing nothing for 5 months and that the government of the Republic of Croatia is not responding to the commission's offer to start negotiations. On the contrary, very intense contacts have been under way for several months, and they will be convinced I am the result of the start of real negotiations. This is a preparatory phase, and it's wasting a lot of time and energy. I'd like to quote Dr. Ivo Sanader's MPs 6 months ago and today means comparing two distinct political environments. And I think that such a promotion, and I think that such a comparison damages one right framework of a well-intentioned debate because it brings us back to a dispute and this is not the place to argue here, is the place of decision of one of the fateful decisions ahead of the fate date for Croatia d rhavu. And I'll explain what I said. Prime Minister Sanader said today that the Republic of Croatia had the right to quote according to what I heard on the radio, because the prime minister was in the Požega government session, so he said that the Republic of Croatia had the right to establish a belt but the previous government did not prepare proposals. The proposal did not prepare the groundbreaking did not carry out the negotiations on the dipolomatical preparation of this proposal. It's not what Prime Minister Sanader invented, it's what it says in several European community documents. I will read you a sentence in such a document where the European Community regrets that Croatia has so decided to quote: "without consulting the neighbours and the Union." Therefore, the prime minister quoted the European Community statement and cannot be declared a fiction or any new initiative, so in this case there is no Camelot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13289	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13290	I have no idea what I'm going to fix because not so much nonsense...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13291	When you have no idea then...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13292	I have that proof. I have proof. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister told Mr. Piculi that it wasn't exactly what he said. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please choose a letter that the Croatian government has not responded to for five months, and I also don't think there's any need to answer the question. What you're doing, I don't know, but the fact is you didn't answer the man you wrote. ... And the preparations are under way? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13293	The same correction by the respected representative Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13294	It is incorrect that Mr. Deputy Prime Minister said that Croatian diplomacy has been working on preparations for five months to start expert talks on the problem we are talking about today. The exact allegation then can only be that Croatian diplomacy weighs on it, because it is unacceptable five months not to do anything, and allegedly prepare. That's pretty warning. And another false assumption is that nothing was done in preparation before this decision was made. It worked very well, but you don't ask, you don't know, you don't care because it's much easier to bend your back in front of Berlusconi and in front of all those great friends you swore to until yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13295	Well, the word "sneezy" came in, but as soon as it was spoken, it entered the record. Representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13296	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It is an incorrect quote on two political contexts, and Mr. Hebrang cited the political context of saying about Prime Minister Sanader from the past, so it could turn out that there are two Mr. Sanaders. It's just not possible. But what about the new political context, and in that I am correcting the incorrect assumption, we can only find out if Prime Minister Sanader is manifested here in this House, in the Croatian Parliament of course related to the so-called a new political context. Commenting on political situations from the same political context somewhere outside this House is simply not politically decent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13297	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13298	So the incorrect assumption is that the former government hasn't made enough preparations, according to Sanader, because exactly his colleague Sanader was talking about the fact that it's a unilateral act that nobody should ask or say anything but simply unilaterally declare it and it's really not about the Camelot, it's about Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13299	The Honorable representative, Leko, is correcting an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13300	According to the stenogram of the session when we were making the decision, the Prime Minister met the Parliament like this: It is known that the working group we formed for many months around this worked intensively, that we had different contacts with international European factors, representatives of other countries, people from Brussels and the European Union. That's why we've proposed a decision like this. Given this quote, I don't suppose HDZ has been able to maintain this level of protection for the Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13301	Dear Representative Zlatko Tomčić corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13302	Thank you very much. Just for a little while, my colleagues have already made a very good correction, and I'm just going to look back at one statement from Mr. Vice President who said that the Camelot is gone. I'd say it's like this, but your criteria have changed, so the Camelot has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13303	At the edge of the illusion of insult, one who dances and dances to what you say. Minister Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13304	Honored ladies and gentlemen, just a brief comment, a few corrections to the allegations that I have not stated at all. Of course I didn't say...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13305	Minister, please one moment. You're also the promoter on behalf of the government, and you're the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister. You have no need or reason to respond to incorrect allegations or to give replicas. You have the right to participate in the debate and it is the right when you want to use the one who holds the presidency to give it to you. So don't limit yourself in the credentials and so forth. you take the word and further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13306	Thank you very much. I took my word for it because it can't remain a responsible correction to the wrong assumption that the diplomacy of this government was liberating. Because... Do I have a right to say? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I don't?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13307	Don't pollemize with the MPs, and your colleagues and colleagues please don't create an atmosphere to open up such a via facts of the polemic between...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13308	I want to say that this government in diplomacy certainly didn't lose weight, but that it worked on this proposal, so I'm reporting for the word, that this proposal has already achieved good results, but not enough, and that's why we're asking for a delay of a few months to complete these negotiations, and that the pounds would not be avis.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13309	You colleagues and colleagues are all too late. Except, I followed closely, except for Mr. Rachan, you're all too late. Everyone else. Everyone else. Following the completion of the presentation, you reported, and I will first say that Article 207 paragraph 2 has expired time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure respected MP Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13310	Mr. President, I'll respect your decision, but I can't stop saying that you were looking at the table and you didn't see me lift the plate, and I picked it up in time, and that's why I'm appealing that you still respect my representation rights and that you're giving me a correction of the incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13311	Looks like I'm looking at the table. I look at you like this, but I see you all well. Here you go, fellow Racan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13312	Mr. President, I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that this government has done well and done what is necessary to be in a good situation today, and we see that we haven't, and that the previous government has missed something. Conversely, we have done everything we need to come to a complex situation in order to make a good decision that the current government wants to cancel and that was in agreement with the representatives of the International Community, or the European Union. From there, a year we had at our disposal, but you didn't take advantage of it. I'm sorry there's no President Sanader here, because I've come to meetings like this with the government's session, even by actuating international obligations. He could do it for good, in the spirit of a good tradition of parliamentaryism and he would do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13313	Well, colleague Arlovic, I don't suppose he's going to be looking for his quote to correct your president. Now you've turned your back on the Rules of Procedure. And what are we going to do first, see a colleague named Zeljko Antunovic? Here you go, pals. Let it be my fault I saw it wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13314	Mr. President, thank you very much. I give up, I think Mr. Secretary speaks for himself enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13315	My colleague Arlović, yes, you did, first you turned the correction of the incorrect allegations, and then the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Is this about the injury? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13316	Mr. President, you have violated Article 209(2) and paragraph 5. A Rules of Procedure which states that a correction may be requested on the basis of the proposals, i.e. the speaker may request a correction of the incorrect statement. I raised a plate during the primary presentation of the Deputy Prime Minister, asked for correction of an incorrect quote, and you said no one asked for it in time. I ask you to allow me to correct the incorrect allegations of the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13317	And which one would I, colleague Arlovic, have reason to deny you the right to correct an incorrect claim? If you've raised the tile, and I've raised it, I've got a lot of sympathy for you, I have no reason to really deny you,...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13318	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13319	...to anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13320	Thank you very much. Then you don't have to talk any further, I'll start by correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13321	Well, make it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13322	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister said that this proposal for a decision to supplement the decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea is delaying the decision for several months. I must say that this is a completely incorrect quote because this decision is being postponed until the conclusion of a fisheries partnership agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia, which is not for a few months because it is, in fact, an indefinite time when that contract will be concluded. And in that respect, it's an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13323	Okay. Let's move on. For Club Libre, respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13324	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, today we are discussing a change of one decision that we made seven months ago in a truly unproductive atmosphere. Atmospheres that used much harder words than they do today. I don't know what I'd like for this debate today. Maybe when we get into that debate after eight o'clock in the evening, and the cameras are on, which, unfortunately, they won't, then that might happen today. But the fact is that the decision we made in some way showed political reality and the overall situation was such that it was not possible not to make the decision. But I must say, I still remind myself of how that decision was made. It was clear that it was a decision with high political risk. If that were the case, it shows today's proposal to supplement that decision, that is, the de facto repealing that decision, but because of the continuing difficulties within the coalition government and because of the subduing climate created in the public that this is a matter of national interest and a question of national pride, there was nothing else that could have been done but under these circumstances that decision was made. I wouldn't look back now on how smaller parties held onto it. Let's say that smaller parties have a habitual right for their party interests sometimes not to see fully national interest, but I must say that the conduct of the Croatian democratic community as the strongest opposition party at the time was below the level of national responsibility. The Croatian Democratic Community knew how delicate it was, it certainly knew that it would come itself in a position to implement this decision and that the Croatian Democratic Community had a different position 7 or 8 months ago, probably that decision would not have been taken today as a state, and of course the Croatian Democratic Community as the strongest member of the ruling coalition would not be faced with this problem today. But this happened, and it could be infinitely cited what was happening that evening, on October 3rd, as the conduct of this Croatian government is actually inexhaustiblely worth quoting and almost nothing else should be done but during the entire 4 years of the term simply quote HDZ statements from a time when the opposition was actually getting the next elections. Of course, it's not productive, I'll stay away from it more or less. I'll reach out to you when we're discussing The Hague because it's a huge national issue and it's good for doactic reasons to know some things, but there's still a need to pursue creative policy and then still turn towards the future, not a complete policy based on what it was. But the truth is, it should be repeated, that the whole nation was scared with the European Union at the time, that the whole nation was frightened with the loss of national identity and dignity and that in this atmosphere it was required not to make such a decision but to make a decision that is even more risky in this regard, which allegedly protects that same national identity more strongly, which is a decision on an exclusive economic belt. But we cannot today, when we consider this question, act as if that decision had not been made. The decision has been made and the withdrawal of the decision is only a real challenge to national pride and national dignity. And for that, there must really be strong reasons. This is a drawback. It is written in the decision itself that it will be delayed from the implementation of 12 months for implementation, not suspension. To find implementing mechanisms, and this de facto that we have here today is the abolition of that decision, not the creation of implementing mechanisms for implementing that decision. Then, in the opinion of the European Commission, it is said that the decision should be harmonised with the neighbours. Harmonize, not abolish. More specifically, the European Commission's opinion in Avis writes: "an additional effort is needed to resolve the issues that arise in the course of Croatia's declaration protected ecological fishing zone." Additional efforts, and the first effort we are aware of in the Croatian public and the Croatian Parliament is this particular effort today, the effort to abolish this decision. And it's really a big question. And that's why I'm sorry we didn't get a chance to discuss this more seriously. I have made an observation as to why the Committee on Foreign Policy with perhaps deeper insight did not discuss the matter, so I saw what it was really about. Whether these pressures are so strong, and if there really is no other way out than this move that is an annulment of national pride. When we went one way, we chose that path. If, in such short time, you are forced to turn away from this path that you have chosen, then it is a loss of national pride and should have been seen at the meetings of the Committee on Foreign Policy and at the meetings of the other committees that are actually happening. However, the Committee on Foreign Policy has not held its session at all. And the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee, which only delivered the report to us, and we're already in the middle of a debate of clubs, has one single formulation that he took over from the government. Meanwhile, it said, the Republic of Croatia has improved relations with the European Union. And Mr. Deputy Prime Minister is talking about completely different political circumstances. That's not true. The political circumstances of the moment we made the decision, and today's circumstances are basically identical. That's when we were ahead of getting AVI. We also expect a positive view of the start of negotiations as critical a step as it is to obtain possible. What's the difference? Well, we knew that we were going to and we were hoping for a positive AVI, and then we knew that we were going to follow this step. Without one step, there's no other. What's the difference? This is not enough to explain, and therefore it is actually farstic that our committees, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relationships, which should analyse what is actually happening with the maritime aspects, what is happening with the Croatian Sea, and not to use the political formulation that he prescribed from the Government, which, by the way, is not as accurate as I said before. And these are huge questions that we unfortunately need to talk about in this way. To make matters worse in the explanation of Mr. Vice-President of the Government, there's also not one word more than that. Except the political circumstances have changed, and they haven't changed. What is this policy that cannot predict what will happen within 6 months in a well-standardised process such as joining the European Union. Everything was familiar back then. Therefore, there are no new political circumstances in this regard to relations with the European Union, but there are clearly new political circumstances in relation to the two members of the same European Union. If there were circumstances, it would be written in AVI. That in AVI is gone, I've quoted what's in that AVI, and what's standing there is nowhere near it, to make such a difficult move as pulling a decision. And it is clear, therefore, that it is the result of the political pressures of the two of us neighbouring countries, which are most interested, which, of course, was visible and immediately in their reactions. According to the reactions of Italy and the reactions of Slovenia. We know that Slovenia had one could be said to be an inappropriate diplomatic reaction, urgently sending a note when the Croatian Parliament adopted a decision it was formally entitled to. And Italy reacted in a similar way. It should be noted that at the first meeting of Croatian Prime Minister Ivo Sanader and Italian Prime Minister Berlusconi, it was said that the issue of ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in the Italian Parliament was only a matter of procedure. That was said more than five months ago. And that procedure, so difficult, takes five months and, of course, since such a simple thing, if there is political will not done, then there is something much more in the background, and that is political pressure. And we can trust what Mr. Deputy Prime Minister says there is no ultimatum and there are no veto threats, but that thing makes it worse. Are we so quick to succumb, have we decided so quickly to lose our national pride, if there is no ultimatum, no sign of them, and no sign of threat to the veto. That's even worse. What does Croatian diplomacy do in this regard? and why the Croatian Parliament doesn't know anything about it. Besides, it's not true for the third time that the political circumstances have changed significantly in the meantime. And that's why, ladies and gentlemen, without knowing what this is about, as a responsible party, we can hardly be in favour of this decision. If they really knew it was a move that had no alternative, if there were no other way, then they would admit it without being angry, if it were the real position of the Republic of Croatia and they would agree, there is no other way, the goal that is threatened is bigger than this and they would agree to this. But we have no idea what's ever been done in that sense. Whether the necessary steps were taken to prevent this, so as they could get positive AVI with that decision, then whoever is not informed, and we are not informed, can assume that we will also get a positive view of the start of negotiations. We got a positive AVI with that decision. And under such circumstances, therefore, ladies and gentlemen without information, the Club of Libre will not be able to support this decision. But I repeat that we've got the right arguments that it's the only way out of this situation as a national party responsible would have done it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13325	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS, Vice-President of the House Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13326	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. I must say that I am truly sorry and that on behalf of the HNS and PGS Club, and I very much assume on behalf of all the other representatives that I am sorry that the Prime Minister Mr Sanader is not in the Assembly right now and that it would be a minimum condition that when he discusses a really important matter for the fate of the Republic of Croatia, and that the timing concerns the exploitation of this time before we become a member, before we even become a candidate for membership in the European Union to consolidate our position and put ourselves in protection, of course, of various interests as the Republic of Croatia as well as any country in this procedure has. I've already said, I think it's also generally known and notorious, that the art of leading the country is the art of representing all or most of the national interests. It's not a sacrifice of some interest to other interests, only in extreme situations where there are no other options, and we've tried everything, and obviously we haven't tried anything here. Then some interests arise at the expense of others. But the difference between the interest groups and the government, the difference between representing the interests of one segment, the population in one country and leading the country is precisely that those who dare take responsibility to lead the country must have the capacity to satisfy the different interests of the country and to coordinate those interests, to identify them and find ways to satisfy them. On the way to the European Union, this situation will be a regular practice this is not an exception, we will constantly be in a situation where the different interests of this country are in relation to what the criteria and requirements of the European Union are. And that's exactly what the art that's missing here is that the combination of meeting the interest is crucial to leading this country. And here is the Croatian interest in protecting Croatian beer industry, protecting Croatian fishermen, protecting the environment, referring to fishing, tourism, so there is no need to stress how important branches of the economy and, on the other hand, become members of the European Union. Hard tasks, but that's why a competent government is needed, otherwise that job could definitely work. The decision proposed here to postpone the application of the decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea is a defacto decision on the abolition of that Jurisdiction and there is no need to be fooled. Namely, this formulation standing here before us, which is to be added to the Member States of the European Union, the application of the legal regime of the protected ecological fisheries band of the Republic of Croatia will begin after the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement between the European Community, the note is wrong, the European Community of course does not exist, the European Union thinks, I warn you to correct it, and the Republic of Croatia. As this chapter on agriculture and fisheries is known, especially the section on fisheries, this is part of, therefore, one chapter of the total package that Croatia needs to negotiate, first negotiate, and then agree and then sign with the European Union. It is a chapter negotiated the longest, it is a chapter to be signed and you end up right before the country enters the European Union. Therefore, the earliest, absolutely the earliest when, according to this proposal, a decision on the ecological and fishing zone could take effect on the day of Croatia's entry into the European Union and not a minute earlier, possibly a little later. Because, as is known, there are certain provisions that, even after entering the European Union, whose application is delayed for a year or even years. In his earlier debate, acting as parliamentary representative, today's Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, said among other things that international negotiations value firmness, value determination in the position, and that HDZ is for it to declare an exclusive economic belt, even if it is for going to a referendum on the topic. So, what now about this strength in international negotiations? Where did it melt, where did this need for strength in international negotiations go? As for the CNS, the PGS, and as far as I'm concerned, and at that time and today, we feel that international negotiations are absolutely the most important awareness of national interests on the one hand is a reasonable approach on the other hand, a rational approach to solving the problem. That is why we are not radicalising the situation at that time or today, seeking to declare an exclusive economic belt. Today it no longer takes courage to declare a fishing-environment zone. Today, it no longer needs a special step and a special determination to make a decision. Today it's just enough to have the courage not to run away from that, but to make decisions, not to give up. You don't have to decide or build anything else. Just please don't degrade what we've already achieved. Let's not go below the level we've already reached. Nothing else. Croatia is not, of course, in this case, a declaration of a fishing zone is not a lonely example, and Spain and France have declared one ecological, other fishing zone, therefore, even within the European Union is not a lonely example. As you all know, as you have all received the clubs correspondence and price for fishing, aqua culture and agriculture of the Croatian Chamber of crafts. On the other hand, the professional trade union of Croatian fishermen who cite examples of both Romania and Bulgaria, countries which are fully eligible candidates for membership in the European Union and have declared such a protected zone. Therefore, when it is known, when there is the ability to negotiate, when there is a will to negotiate then it is obvious that it is something that is not only legally possible because no one questioned it, obviously that, by international law, it is possible but politically possible. Croatia, of course, is, must and wants to be in good relations with its neighbours, wants to co-operate with its neighbours and, according to my assessment, it is also in a positive environment. So it's not about declaring an ecological fishing belt or zone, it's not about making it impossible for any neighbor to hunt, to fish in that country, it's not about that. They could continue to fish within that protected zone but according to clear rules, according to the rules where quotas are known, where prices are known and where Croatia is compensated for it. Therefore, nothing would be forbidden to anyone at all. According to this decision on the establishment of an ecological-fishing zone, only order would be introduced into environmental protection and fishing and regular fees and absolutely nothing would be prohibited by anyone within the limits of the law. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We at the HNS club, the PGS cannot accept that the Croatian government is running a permanent pronunciation policy. For example. We'd like development projects but we don't want the IMF, we're going to cut the VAT, but we can't because we didn't know what the situation was. We'll recover pensions taken from the pensioners at the time of last HDZ's government but actually we won't. We're for the economic belt, but we're actually going to end the fishing-environment zone. It's not government policy, it's a policy of permanent alibis, it's a policy of permanent excuses, we would like this but we can't, we would want it but we don't know. It's not the government's job. The government's job is to expose how it will achieve goals, strategies, how it will come to results, and not excuses why it has no goals, why it will not achieve any results, why will none of what is mentioned be realized? It's not the government's job. It's a non-leading business, it's a non-disclosure job in what you've taken over. As I said, you all have memos and a cascade for fishing and trade unions, one, this professional fishing union signed by Mr. Petar Baranovic, the other signed by Mr. Tonc Bozanic, these are the interests of fishermen. I am not saying that the Croatian government must run a policy in accordance with only the interests of fishermen. Of course, she has the task of taking care of other interests, but she has the task not only of fishing but also of fishing interests because they are Croatian interests. Therefore, of course, it must take care of the broader context, of course, that it must take care of our ability to enter, in time and in turn, into the European Union. Of course we have to make sure we get the date of the negotiations, but it's also just one segment of our interests. It is important to be able to combine these interests and achieve results. If we act like this, if instead of the policy of the objectives and policies of the clear and sometimes the wrong ones, but at least recognizable strategies, we would like politics, but there is nothing we can do but want nothing to achieve neither these interests represented by fishermen nor those of Croatia leading towards the European Union. Because of this, we do not recognize it as interests but because we do not know how to guide Croatia according to its goals. That's what this Decision is about today, and that's why, of course, I'm inviting you not to support it here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13327	Thank you very much, colleague, we have a correction to the incorrect assumption. Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13328	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations Mrs Pusic said that this government is running an excuse policy and that she cannot set her goals. This is the HDZ Government, which was able to set its goals unlike others in 1990, and it knows and now set goals and this government has promised the Croatian people guarantees and achievements that should be done and will do so. Therefore, the people will assess in the next election we have fulfilled our promises.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13329	Thank you very much, colleague. The next is on behalf of the HDZ Club, Vice-President of the House of counterpart Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13330	Madam Vice President and Madam Vice President, not that we'd like to, and we can't, but we can and will. This is the answer to your dilemmas about your doubts and about your reserves in the Croatian government's ability to lead this country and in the capacity of the parliamentary majority to support it. So much for that, and now I would like to remind you that a proposal came to this House on November 3rd in the morning to declare the economic belt, that it was on the agenda and discussed during that day. And we didn't ask as many questions about procedure as we did today, nor did we waste as much time as we did today, whether they would broadcast television or not, but was consumed in the way Mr. Tomcic normally led the Parliament by ignoring everything the opposition said. It was a style that adorned the entire mandate of former President-in-Office of Parliament Tomcic. And why October 3rd? Why not before, as he suggested, HSP and Mr Tadic? Why not before? Why October 3rd, not a full month before the election. If HSP had proposed such a law then I would have raised my hand in the sense that the HSP was consistent in proposing such a decision, in the direction of proposing such a decision. But as elections approached, they needed points, and the result of these points is known. Our neighbours are members of the European Union Italy and Slovenia which are members of the European Union, and our neighbours Bosnia and Herzegovina at sea think that, Serbia, Montenegro and we can say Albania are not members of the European Union. This proposal for a decision to extend the deadline applies to members of the European Union, so two concepts here are the European Union and the European Community, there is an explanation by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the European Community and the Union as a legal entity sign agreements. When the debate was in the Assembly on this issue, different opinions were heard. Some were for the declaration of the economic belt, such as HDZ and HSP. Some were for this modified proposal, which was eventually adopted. No one questioned the right of the Republic of Croatia to declare an economic belt under international conventions and it was not a legal problem. It was actually a problem to report whether or not and when to do so and whether some of the speeches should have consulted the European Union and our neighbours who are interested. As far as the Republic of Slovenia is concerned, this decision on fishing is of no importance, is it? Slovenia cannot appear here as any interested party, because according to paragraph 5 of our Decision, and otherwise the external borders of the protected ecological and fishing zone of the Republic of Croatia will be established by international demarcation agreements with the countries whose coasts lie in front of the Croatian coast, and thus the border with Slovenia has not been established even though an agreement has been signed and initialled by the former government to establish the border. Luckily, that's not how it ended. Well, we with Slovenia in terms of fishing, and we don't have to have any problems because we haven't even established the limits yet. So that's the problem, too. When this issue was debated, we heard from Mr. Picula a quote from individual parliamentary representatives, then from HDZ, and they're correct, and I checked it out, and one of those quotes is and it's nice that Mr. Picula tried to quote us but unfortunately we couldn't quote him in that debate because he also answered the word and the whole time he was sitting here and he was foreign minister. I didn't say it wasn't Simovic but it wasn't Picula. It was Picula, here I was gonna say whether he was or wasn't. So we could not even quote to Picul in our reasonings of our views because Mr. Picula, as foreign minister, did not speak a word but did so by his deputy, Dr. Ivan Simunovic, which I am not contesting, he answered. So what we are saying here, we are saying to abolish the decision, not to end the decision, but to try to prologinate in order to successfully conclude negotiations with the European Union on fishing in the Adriatic, and so as not to God, if it were to come to an end any possible objection which is actually indicated in the letter of the European Union that we unilaterally declared, so it is a small "ditch" because we are not saying, we have consulted with the neighbours. And I'm interpreting it more as an observation rather than a commendation why we didn't do it. We now want to because it is a very important timing for Croatia's EU bid. And a date-determining. To eliminate any possible objection that we have tried not to negotiate this time not only with Italy and Slovenia, but with the EU, so that when we are members of the European Union, we will talk about these and other problems and solve them within the EU. And coordinate. Now here's the ospodin Radoš quoted HDFor he did not quote but announced that four years could quote HDZ statements to win the election. And I am very warmly insinuating this Mr. Radosh and looking forward to his victory in the next election. but I also hope that this time he will come out under his name and not under the name of the SDP as in the previous elections, so that he will come to the Croatian Parliament with his own forces and seditiousness. What we are looking for in the end is representatives of the Croatian Parliament. We ask representatives of the Croatian Parliament the circumstances in which our negotiating positions and timing are located. IF IT IS 15 days and we should not allow an excuse, because this is not an azlog for Italy or Slovenia to possibly lie, but it can be an excuse. If Croatia refuses or does not set the date of the negotiations, then it will not be because either Italy or any other country did so, but rather other reasons. but we would not like to give a formal excuse that would serve some to postpone indefinitely the date for entry into negotiations with the EU, because this would mean putting into thirsty others who may be waiting for a decade with a certain status. Which they haven't even got the date of the negotiations yet. I'm saying this because of any suspicion of motives that the government is proposing such a decision to me, and of course everyone will face their responsibility by facing the need for us not to be those who decide but who talk and try to find an appropriate consensus with the right agreement. We are trying to get in the most recent time what we wanted and what you gentlemen wanted and what you have worked on for a long and successful time to complete the overall satisfaction of this Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public. So it's not about this being a very important reason for someone to reject us right now, it's not about that. Once again, I want to draw on something else that we can do without showing the ability to talk and negotiate. YES, they could be declared or labelled better than those who do not want to talk on their own and unilateral terms. And so as not to provide those who may be waiting for it and have no arguments, to use that argument to prevent a decision on candidacy relating to the date of accession negotiations in the European Union. These are the reasons that have disrupted this government and based on the latest reports of our diplomatic representatives and the talks we have had with a number of countries including the European Union chairman. Therefore, who are our friends and who want us to have one of those who gave us a clear statement yesterday about this and Mr. Josak Fijer, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Germany, who wants to see us there. But if you agree with 25 states, there are some who don't want it very badly. For these or those, again his political other, economic, lording reasons. So I ask that we take a good look at this and make a decision that will be in Croatia's interest. We're making this at the beginning of the term of office, and the motion for a decision was ahead of the election. So, we also want if we fail to achieve such an agreement, it will apply to the countries of the European Union and not to the rest of our neighbours. I think it's a very clear position. And we expect the support of the Croatian Parliament for making the prolonging of this decision Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13331	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have six corrections of incorrect allegations. So let's take the order. First enlisted fellow MP Nenad STazic and love fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13332	I'm correcting the first sentence of the respected Koelga Bebić, which is that HDZ will and can. Not at all unknown what HDZ wants, because one day he wants an exclusive economic zone and the other day he won't even have a protected fishing belt. So it's completely impossible to determine what HDZ really wants. But in terms of what can be done here, it can already be a little more precise. He can undo the good decisions of the former government, around the fishing ecological zone, can also undo his own election promises about VAT. And in terms of what he can actually do best for him in cooperation with The Hague. He's inaccessible.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13333	Thank you very much, fellow Stazic. You haven't been exact about the corrections, but I have to admit that it seems to be becoming a tradition. The next one for correcting an incorrect quote is a fellow representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13334	Thank you very much. At the beginning of his presentation, Mr. Bebić said that Slovenia is not so important to us in connection with the belt. However, I would warn that this is an incorrect finding. In fact, Croatia has no more classical bilateral agreements with its northern neighbours, as everything must be declared by the European Commission. For example, you can no longer agree to a border crossing with the Slovenians without giving an opinion to the European Commission. And one more thing. In politics, nothing was black and white except one thing, which is that politics knows who's responsible for what and how much responsibility they have. One who has the support of most citizens is responsible for its decisions, and one who does not have that responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13335	Thank you very much. The first part of my colleague Lučina's presentation was a correction to the incorrect allegations, and the second part was to agree with HDZ as much as I noticed. The following is the correction of the incorrect quote from counterpart Tonino Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13336	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to correct the incorrect allegations and insinuation of the distinguished representative Luke Bebić why October 3rd...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13337	I'm being warned that insinuations can't be corrected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13338	Then we'll just fix the wrong quote. Why October 3rd, because the word was probably in collecting political points. I deny that there have been some discussions and exhibitions of some clubs and that, however, just so I don't forget to remind myself. At the end of November of the same year, in 2003, a debate was to be held, or a conference on sustainable fisheries in Venice. Croatia was supposed to come to that conference with a view to protecting at least our part of the Adriatic so that the mechanism would not be imposed on us and we succeeded on October 3rd, even though you tried very hard to obstruct that position. Just giving up the decision is actually the return of Croatia to the state before 3 October, i.e. the state without any protection of the Croatian Adriatic. As for my participation in the debate, not participation exactly. I didn't speak, it was such an agreement, but then I was there as foreign minister, Prime Minister Ivica Racan, and he was Deputy Minister Mr. Shimonovic. There are no Prime Ministers now, nor Minister nor Secretary of State, even though it was announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13339	Thank you very much. Please don't throw it out of the bench. The following came to light for the correction of the incorrect quote by Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13340	I want to correct the incorrect assumption that you have to and must speak to your neighbors. Unfortunately, there are no Prime Ministers, so we don't know what he's thinking and he hasn't corrected his statement from the debate on this House, and then he said that some people are angry. So please make it nice to be angry with those who have adopted the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, because this Convention says very clearly that it is unilaterally, therefore not by agreement, but independently declaring itself an economic belt. And my colleague Bebic said then, and I think that the European Union's policy must be brought into line with the UN conventions and policies, not vice versa. I do not know what happened that the policy of the United Nations must now be brought into line with the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13341	In the second part of your presentation, you corrected your colleague, Luka Bebić, and in the first part you corrected the prime minister you said was not here, so I hold that you violated the Rules of Procedure. The next one for correcting the incorrect quote is counterpart Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13342	Thank you. So counterpart Bebic said that the goal of this decision is to eliminate any objections about lack of consultations. That's just not true. The aim of making this decision and the reason for proposing such a decision must be something else, which is what the Parliament does not know, and that we have a standstill it says Mr Bebić himself because the man who made the decision on the declaration of the economic belt identified it with the sovereignty of the state, the man who said the declaration of that belt would be more respected as a state, and he said, fearing that the European Union would shut the door for us, indeed, and his policy must be subjected to terrible pressures to make a total turn of reflection within eight months.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13343	A colleague of Lalić's is already part of the debate not correcting the incorrect allegations. Please, fellow MPs, please, let's go quietly to the session. We have another correction to the incorrect allegations, it's the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13344	Thank you very much. I want to correct the quote of my colleague, Bebić, who said that the government wants us to understand the circumstances in which our negotiators are located. Since the government's representative Mr Hebrang and interprets and demands and the government's stance twice reiterated that no pressures, blackmail or threat to any veto on this issue are being made against Croatia, the environment in the negotiations is friendly. I don't think that quote can be true.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13345	Excuse me, counselor, for fixing this now? What are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13346	The accuracy of Mr. Bebić's quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13347	You can't answer your colleagues or your colleagues, there isn't one in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the SDSS Club, respected representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13348	Madam Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. It is absolutely certain that in months and years, especially years of future negotiations and upcoming negotiations, there will be many situations in which Croatia will need to protect itself in the context of the European processes of its ecological, its agricultural, its food and health, and a whole series of its aspects, both civil and in the broader sense of the national that has been spoken of here, it is doubtless. This is what every country that has joined the European Union has done, and today every country that is already a member of the European Union does. So the moment these negotiations are ended by receiving EU membership, Croatia will not stop with the need to position itself in the European frameworks that will be as favourable for it as possible. The main debate today shows two of us on the one hand, showing the legacy of the former discussion in this House, so what we've been in since the fall of last year, and on the other hand, is that we're actually already going into the bargaining business and into the business of our situation and the European framework, and then what we're in, and that's the meaning of what I could hear here today. And although I wasn't here last fall, in these benches and in this House, but I remember as most of the citizens who could follow it, it was a dramatic moment in the existence of the former government and its coalition. Very dramatic. And I must express my regret that this dramatism came not only from the circle then strong and at certain times very radical opposition but also from the very circle of the coalition and that was a shame. And when there's a debate on the credibility of politics here, someone's already mentioned that story, and it makes sense for that debate, then there are really parties that have been acting crediblely here, then they act, they act today in this regard. It has already been mentioned here, counterpart Tadic, as one of those who has consistently insisted on issues that are of this topic, and I, as chairman of the Interparliamentary Cooperation Committee, remember a series of discussions in which he himself participated in this regard and represented interests which are of interest to Croatia in the frameworks of the Mediterranean, i.e. within the future Mediterranean policy, Mediterranean initiative. However, despite the debate on the ecological fishing zone, today is not a chance to fish in a blur. I'm sure of it. The edge of Racan at that point was certainly not easy. Today, he finds it easier because, as they did not help him to achieve the goals that the state was expecting at that time, he is now in a position to do so. No matter what opposition differences. Then indeed, as someone said, there was a time before the elections, and today is the time before the Council of Ministers' decision. And that's a big difference. And everyone will assess with how much credibility they will enter into the business that is now waiting for us, and we expect a positive response in terms of candidacy and not only that, we expect an indication of the start of the negotiations for the date. Today, I am obliged to inform both this House and my colleagues and colleagues here, the SDSS Representatives Club addressed its initiative with a letter and the chairman of the European Union Council of Ministers and the President of the European Commission and the European Union Foreign Minister, with a request expressing the interest of the Serbian Community in Croatia, which we, as representatives, can express that we support, not only that we support the request for reception but that we expect a positive opinion of the Council of Ministers on candidacy and on the start of the date of negotiations. We think it is in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We think that this is also in the interest of the Serbian Community in Croatia, and we think that what with the decision on candidacy and the start of negotiations will be made by the European Union and the European Commission's access funds can certainly be seen as compensation and as an assumption of what interests and people directly concerned are. So, not only the question of national pride, as my colleague Radoš used to say here, but those directly concerned, which is a question of fishermen and people living by the sea, living off tourism and expecting the sea to be both ecologically protected and for exploitation to be the interests of domestic fishermen to be protected. With these access funds, Croatia can certainly strengthen its position in future negotiations, if it leads a policy that some colleagues and colleagues have pleaded for here on several occasions. If not, of course not. Of course, the issue of an ecological fishing zone has no direct or only connection to fisheries or to environmental science alone. Of course, countries that advocate stopping Croatia at that point or creating the necessary compromise also have wider interests. And they are not only related to the issue of the ecological fishing zone or to specific questions related to the ecological fishing zone. It is with wider interests, not only in terms of Croatia but also in the entire Southeast European region. And that's clear. In other words, regardless of what I might have liked if we had been in a situation or in a position to support the former government in its efforts to resolve the issue of the protection of the Adriatic, the exploitation of the Adriatic, we were not in a situation at that time, but we would have certainly done so. And as I think that the present moment, therefore, two weeks before the Ministerial Council's decision, regardless of the need, once again, I say to us the strengthening of credibility and the proof of who, when and in what situation he really led only the foreign interests and violated the state's interests, and who insists or remains on protecting his party interests, but at the same time leading interests in the interests of the state. Today is actually the moment that in this House, and I am convinced that it will be, it will come to what is called the majority needed to create assumptions not to give up on the objectives defined by the ecological fishing zone and that some colleagues here have defined much earlier. It's to get a better position, so they can be negotiated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13349	Thank you very much, colleague. We've exhausted the club speakers and we're on our way to a 10-minute debate. First, a colleague, Mato Arlović, signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13350	... Let me remind, however, that by delimiting between the former Yugoslavia and Italy on the epicontinental belt that practically the Republic of Croatia has come to the opportunity to use its submarine, use oil, use natural gas, build installations, etc. [[Specially enabled.]] In addition, by declaring the ecological fishing zone, it has acquired the possibility of making available and protecting fish resources, environmental protection of the submarines, seas and scientific research in this respect and that, in practice, it has achieved the complete content of the economic belt, except for the production of electricity from the difference of tides and tides, sea currents and windscreens. We should now be in the stage of preparing regulations and acts that will ensure the implementation and protection of the exploitation of fish resources, then environmental protection and scientific research, in fact, of our part of the Adriatic Sea, which rests on our territorial sea, which covers to the extreme limit in the conflict with Italy that has not yet been withdrawn, the ecological fishing zone. Instead, we are getting, instead of working on this issue, and we should work on it, and not only in view of the decision to declare the ecological fisheries belt but also in relation to the regulations we have adopted, and in particular the regulations on the protection of the Mediterranean and the protection of the Adriatic and Ionian Seas. So what do we get today? We're getting a motion decision that's very interesting. Firstly, this proposal states that the application of the legal regime of the protected ecological fisheries band of the Republic of Croatia will begin after the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement for the Member States of the European Union. First mistake. We have not yet passed regulations that form the legal regime of the ecological fishing zone. So that's what we have to work on. As far as the implementing rules are concerned, we only made a decision on the declaration. The second is very interesting. Here we are talking about the conclusion of a fisheries partnership agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia, but nothing is said about environmental protection and scientific research related to the ecological protection of the Adriatic Sea. Third, which is just as important. In the light of the proposal for a decision, it is clearly stated that we should ensure that this Partnership Agreement is in line with the Declaration of the Ministerial Conference on Sustainable Fisheries in the Mediterranean and the Common Fisheries Policy of the European Union. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we decide today or these days to postpone the application of the decision to declare an ecological fishing band. Until a partnership agreement is concluded with the European Union, then the partnership agreement will not actually be concluded. Because there's no reason. Which is why the European Union, at this stage until Croatia becomes a full member, would have a special interest, would enter into a partnership agreement with Croatia, while at the same time having its own regulations governing the issue of sustainable fisheries in the Mediterranean and the common fisheries policy in the European Union. Well, of course, the European Union will run its own policy rather than take care of the Republic of Croatia, because in such a situation, it is certainly this decision that becomes, in fact, a decision for an indefinite period of time that can be determined by a condition that will not actually be met. and in this respect it is brought indefinitely. This also raises the question of the entire ecological fisheries, the declared ecological fishing zone. In fact, the moment we become a full member of the European Union, if we do not apply the decision on the ecological fishing zone until then, then we will apply the European Union rules on sustainable fisheries in the Mediterranean, and, of course, the policy of the declaration of the Ministerial Conference, that is, the common fisheries policy of the European Union in that part. Not your regulations and your decisions. And in this respect it is quite clear that I repeat this fourth question, that, in fact, as the proposed proposal for a decision has been studied, it cannot stand to be reconsidered, at all, whether it is necessary, and if it is necessary to regulate it as proposed, it is practically not possible, because in this way it is practically brought to the Republic of Croatia that it has not just declared a declared fishing ecological zone... a naked right that will never be realized and can never be realized. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] And in such a situation, it actually harms both its economic and national interests in the management and management of this with 22,000 square kilometres of sea surfaces. The fifth question is, how do we decide that we will unilaterally accept a postponement towards the countries of the European Union, the application of a decision on an ecological fishing zone, and at the same time, that principle will not be directed towards our neighbours, in a situation other than the members of the European Union, in a situation where the European Union asks us to cooperate with our neighbours and an economic... In such a situation, it is quite clear that this issue relating to the European Union is, in fact, a general issue, not only to the European Union, but to all the countries, including neighbours, because this will be the second point of opportunity, I will not say the pressure, but rather to the European Union's demands in relation to how the European Union asks for the achievement of the policy of the United Nations and creation... [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] The fifth question. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] The question arises, the degree of credibility and authority and the legal order of the Republic of Croatia in a situation where instead of creating a legal regime for the implementation of decisions and laws and regulations that we actually make as soon as we come across a more serious problem, we have a more serious problem looking for a way to postpone the decision on... How convincing are we, not only to the local public, but also to third ones, but to the European Union? [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] If we are so easily willing to give in and delay actually implementing our own decisions. Then that decision and all the arguments that motivated us to make a decision on the ecological fishing band actually fall into the water, and on the national interest, and on the threat of the fish fund in the Adriatic to its economic threat, even economic, biological, not only economic threat and... and the issue of ecological pollution of the Adriatic Sea. In such a situation, this is a very serious issue, taking into account that the highest degree of pollution on the part of the Adriatic Sea on the part of the Republic of Croatia is related to the so-called Communal relationship. Real chemical pollution of the Adriatic Sea. and real biological pollution is actually coming through the river... and through waste industries that come from Austria, Switzerland and Italy. In such a situation, when we open the issue of ecological protection of the Adriatic Sea, it is not only the issue of protecting the Adriatic Sea by the Republic of Croatia, but, in general, in the interest of the European Union and related to the implementation of the rules on the environmental protection of the European Union itself. and this should be used as negotiations that should be taken into account. Furthermore, the same serious question is raised. Whether it can be convincing enough, if one policy is conducted with certain objectives and requirements of the Maximalist so-called. a policy with requirements as an opposition when an exclusive declaration of the economic belt was requested, and when it came to the position that what has already been prescribed, where the risk and burden of responsibility have taken over, carried the authority that was in power when it decided to declare the ecological fishing zone, in fact and gave up. It is a question that is very serious and which is a serious issue not from the point of view of who is now in power, but from the aspect of the credibility of the Republic of Croatia and the achievement of its strategic long-term interests. For forgive me, it is a matter of natural wealth, an exceptional meaning, which is particularly protected by our Constitution. Therefore, what we are trying to do or trying to make a decision to declare an ecological fishing belt should be reminded that it is nothing more than the actual achievement of Article 1042. The maritime code we passed long ago, waiting for time to be realized. So now there's a serious question, what do you do in a given situation? Obviously, such a postponement of the ecological fishing zone, i.e. the application of the ecological fishing zone for the countries of the European Union, is not taking into account. I'm sure there's a way out of this situation. It may be necessary to discuss that in order to implement point 3 of the organic fishing band for the preparation of implementing mechanisms, and for possible conclusion of agreements and arrangements with interested European Union countries, we should ask through this to see how in the transitional period.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13351	A fellow representative of the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13352	I'm finishing up. It does not become a full member of the European Union to find a transitional solution, but in the interest of achieving this decision, rather than delaying it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13353	Thank you very much. The next debate was reported by counterpart Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13354	Madam Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Just seven months ago here in this hall, we were discussing whether we were going to declare an economic belt or an ecological fishing zone. But today and yesterday, some don't say the same thing. It's confusing for me, but I believe even more for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. By reading the phonograms, I still don't believe that one of these decisions that lies ahead of us today is signed by Doctor Ivo Sanader. Or maybe it's two Sanaders, the one yesterday and today. The same man who was then talking about how the HDZ Club supports the proposal to declare the economic belt no less. Today he says I'm giving up the ecological fishing zone. Yesterday you asked for the maximum, and today you give up what we have as a minimum. He was then very optimistic and determined that we should declare an economic belt. That's when Mr. Sanader spoke here. There are some moments where we have to take risks. He is fully aware of the fact that certain forces within the European Union could leave us and object. But I'm also sure that we're going to have within the 15th, and I'm not talking within the 10ths of the new ones, and so are the people and the advocates and the people who did it and who will understand that it can't be looked at just through it, is it now a decision for someone who negotiates or doesn't respond if it's founded in international law? That's what Mr. Ivo Sanader said back then. Today Sanader and the government are silent about the real reasons for giving up this decision and holding the government's speedy session late yesterday, without the presence of journalists in order to write less publicly than another guarantee from the government. But in a well-known manner when this government doesn't know the solution to the problems it accuses the former government, that's how it's done today. However, it is one policy that will not long hold water with our citizens. How is it possible that no sufficient number of countries can be found today that will give us support and understanding? Or maybe something has changed today that we don't know. This is mainly about the problem with our neighbouring countries with Italy and Slovenia that are protesting and which will be put into the VETO tomorrow or the day after tomorrow when it will decide when Croatia will win and whether it will even get a date on when the negotiations for entry into the European Union will begin. What happened to the man and the foreigners who so bravely defended the decision on the economic belt until just seven months ago to give in to the pressure of neighbouring countries today and to have no solution for this situation. I will also remind you of a quote from Mr. Sanader who said here: and I am convinced with good lobbying, not underestimating the risk of such a move but with a good lobbying with a strong argument, with respect for neighbors and all those others that we can explain, justify and obtain the majority within the Union for such a decision. What was the lie I was interested in yesterday or today? Which is why today Mr Sanader cannot get the consent of these two countries primarily Italy and Slovenia to get the start date of negotiations for entry into the European Union and to protect what is our national interest. The biggest problem is that Croatian citizens don't really know what it is and what it is the government policy of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, in this government, you talk too often today one, tomorrow another, one is said, the other is done. And it can really be asked whether this government, after this kind of behavior, will continue to yield if the country asks for more than this tomorrow, or if it was a virtue only of opposition. In my opinion today you pay the price of irresponsibility at the time when you were in opposition when you staged protests and rebellion against the former government not with the aim of protecting national interests but primarily with the aim of destroying the former government. But the days you have to deal with the consequences of your behavior, from day to day, you're getting more and more charged. The responsibility for this country must be equal both in opposition and in power, of course, if it is principled and boring people, and not in the Camelots.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13355	Representative Boras. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13356	Dear Mr. President, often in today's debate, what happened to some debaters about making a decision on the fishing-environment belt and quoting the parts of the stenogram I will try in the replica of Mrs. Opačić or Ms. Opačić, MPs to the esteemed answer what happened. Then I'll remind her in the late hours between 21st and 23rd, 4.5th, two proposals were discussed. One was the proposal that had been waiting since May 2001 in the Assembly drawers of the Club of HSP, which sought an economic belt and the second proposal was, therefore, a united debate, the second proposal was the proposal of one club or one representative on the eco-fishing belt. By choosing between the two proposals, HDZ was for the economic belt. And it's just that it's about that, and if time lets me or else I'm going to quote President Sanader on behalf of the club what he said about it. So he made it clear that, in such a way, important political issues are not decided but that it is necessary to agree previously, to see that political ones are adopted, to consult preferably and opposition, etc., and to take a common risk and that there should be no party points here. Here, I tried to tell you in this short time basic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13357	Reply to the replica of the respected representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13358	Well, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I've been very clearly quoting here some of the words that Mr. Sanader has spoken here. They therefore make it very clear that HDZ was in opposition for the declaration of the economic belt. Yes, my intensity of my presentation was also to show the Croatian public how irresponsible you were as an opposition party because of the people who were then responsible for the management of the state and prime minister and the foreign minister who, in fact, is not here today, but we have as far as I think the vice president in charge of the economy and I don't see what he has to do with the ecological and fishing zone and foreign policy, so only in this entire debate did he want to show that you were one of the solutions that you were told here that this solution in the Republic of Croatia could not be made possible to cause very large reactions and severe reactions and not only the neighbouring countries but the complete European Union. The ecological and fishing zone was a kind of compromise, either a medium solution to which we could protect our national interests and on the other hand we did not so much irritate the world public, primarily a member of the European Union. Of course, before that, a very big job was done, all those who were involved in this debate know that from Western European countries we were announced, we were announced with violent reactions, our diplomacy reduced all these reactions almost to nothing. So there were no negative reactions to the announcement of the ecological-fishing zone and now your diplomacy and your foreign minister is on the move so let him show what he knows about diplomacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13359	Minister Hebrang, come in. Minister Hebrang, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13360	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I am here on the basis of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia if Miss Opačić did not know and I am authorized by the Prime Minister to represent him while he is sitting at a meeting of the Government that is today in Požega. That's what I said at the beginning. I would just like to supplement the proposal because I see that there have been some misunderstandings or misunderstandings, so Mr Arlovic said that the European Union is asking us not only to cooperate with the countries of the European Union but also with our other neighbours. Well, the proposal that lies ahead of you and the amendment and the text that lies does not exclude that cooperation with other neighbours at all. So, co-operation on the fishing-environment zone with other neighbours continues after the 2003 Parliament decided and for that part of the decision with the European Union we are looking for a postponement because we will not have time to this mandate and these negotiations will end. The second thing that should have been added here, and maybe in the first exhibition, I missed it, is that we're looking for an economic zone and now we're not going to have a fishing ecological zone, so it's precisely because we didn't make economics and we didn't immediately put it into effect today we're discussing that decision that we did then we wouldn't discuss it. And just a supplement for guarantees, it is not true that, with its request and proposal, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is deviating from its guarantees because this proposal is precisely on the basis of the guarantee that Croatia will be introduced into the European Union and we remain in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13361	Correction of the incorrect alleged respected representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13362	I'm correcting Mr. Hebrang's incorrect quote that we've made a decision on the economic belt so we don't discuss this issue today. That's completely incorrect, Mr. Hebrang. We'd really like to discuss and as far as this is concerned, so now you have the opportunity to declare an economic belt. [[I'll be there when the time comes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13363	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13364	My correction refers to the same finding by Mr. Hebrang, who claimed that, if then a decision was made on the economic belt that today would not be discussing the ecological-fishing belt except that it is logically nonsensical, I think it is quite hypocritical and indeed in some way me, you said that you, that you were empowered by the Prime Minister to be there. Here we heard that he claimed so many different things that some suspected there were two Mr. Sanaders, in which case indeed one could be in Požeza at the moment, in Požega Slavonian, and the other here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13365	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13366	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Vice President said that this motion for a decision was also on the trail of guarantees of fulfillment of the promise. What more guarantees are you talking about? Do you know what a guarantee is? The guarantee is when something's guaranteed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13367	What are you doing correcting your colleagues, what?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13368	The fact that it is not a guarantee and that there is no more lying and cheating on Croatian people and Croatian citizens. Make a guarantee, please. You guarantee yourself something with your own property, and we can figure this out as some kind of guarantee of your own credibility that, here you are, getting lost from day to day. [[I'm not lying.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13369	I don't understand, colleague Anticevic, why should those terms and those words be used? You're correcting an incorrect quote, so don't lie, cheat on it, too. What's that for? For what? Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13370	Sir, Mr. President, Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In these two days as we discuss the two proposals that have arrived on our benches, which are complemented by the agenda and which we are discussing, we could discuss and discuss on the subject of the responsibility of the position and opposition. The position has maximum responsibility because it is responsible for the consequences of the decisions it makes. The opposition has responsibility for the control of the authorities, for warning of certain moves that the government is making, but also has responsibility for those decisions that have a national character and which could harm national interests. In the SDP, we are working both in the government and in the opposition to behave in this way. You HDZ today, unfortunately, and unfortunately for us, you are facing your behaviour and the unbelief of opposition behaviour today in power. I'm going to document that specifically, so I'm going to take this opportunity on this decision that we're discussing today. So the then representative, today Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, when we discuss the decision on the economic belt or the ecological fishing zone, says: “I am to consider this very seriously today, one and another proposal, but to address on behalf of the Government the one most competent, the most measured, to get all the information, because in Croatia, because of the inability and poor management of this topic, the government has brought the country into such a situation to embarrass ourselves in front of the whole world. That's what we're looking for today. Tell us responsibly and responsibly and honestly and honestly why we have to change this Decision?" Racan then answers as Prime Minister: “I want to say that after many months of working on this issue, Croatia's jurisdiction on the Adriatic Sea has been extended after serious reflection and evaluation of what we need to do and what is best in line with national interests afterwards. It is known that the working group we have formed has been working intensively for many months." It is said on the one hand, the question is how to satisfy the expectations and attitudes of the Croatian public when it comes to protecting the Adriatic, and on the other, it is also a great expectation for citizens to join the European Union. But that's not enough. Mr. Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Šimunović, Šimonović, very competently explains the difference between the economic belt and the economic zone, and the ecological and fishing zone, and the president of the HDZ and the representative Sanader responds: “It is unacceptable to hold us as fools.” So, “because” he says “it is not exactly what the deputy foreign minister is saying.” And when he speaks on behalf of the HDZ Club, he says: “We are, we will explicitly support the declaration of the economic belt. This is about Croatia, about Croatian interests, about Croatia's international position, and I think it's a missed opportunity for what came out too soon in public with it." It says further: "Maybe this deal doesn't go away, maybe it's an agreement within the coalition." I'd like to comment today, changing this Decision seems to me that we're coming up with neither the economic belt nor the ecological fishing zone. It speaks, continues to say when we have opened this topic, then it should be said that the European Union cannot put pressure on Croatia and says it with full responsibility. He says because a convention that says very clearly that it is not in agreement, therefore, but unilaterally proclaims this, this one, declares an economic zone and no one questions it. Today precisely because of what this is all about, which can't be unilateral, we're changing this decision. He says, “There are times in which we must take risks.” What's the risk if we don't make an amendment to this decision? And then he's very convincing of what happens in the Adriatic when Italian carriages come to the Adriatic. He says that even experts say that the European Union, which is very important, recommends that Member States and candidates expand their control of uncontrollable fishing in international waters. So by declaring the economic belt, we do what we do anyway and recommend. After such exposure, the then Prime Minister says: “Yes. I want to say that we are here today in front of the election whether we are going to do something, whether we are going to do something, not if we are going to do something, but what are we going to do?" In one case and another, Croatia has the right to take one step and another. The legal situation is clear and clear. Croatia has the right, therefore, to decide today on both the exclusive economic belt and the protected eco-fish position, the belt proposed by the government. But it says "it's not just about the law here, it's about politics". And today it's about talking about a policy decision more than a law. At the end when we decided on the amendments and adopted this decision that we are changing today's Parliament president said that we have declared a strange beak. And today that beak seems to be losing my breath, so we won't have a weird beak, we won't have an economic belt, we won't have a ecological fishing zone. Yeah. So we had already learned there in 2003 and this very well-knowledge that in 2004, we will also get a positive avis and get an EU bid. And the preparations for this quest should have gone further for the last five months or the first five months of the government's mandate to go further and should have been more efficient. And today, I'd like to pray to you if we could behave exactly the way I did from the opposition as I said at the beginning of my exile. Because this is still about a significant national interest so that we can make a responsible decision, it would be fair for us to really be told which are the real reasons why we have to change this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13371	Dear Representative Nenad Szazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13372	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well look I think this topic has a whole series of aspects of which three matter. The first is to protect the national interees. But that aspect has two aspects again. Because the national interest is protected by this ecological fishing zone, it is protected in our part of the Adriatic. But the national interest is to join the EU and it is to be a national interior. Now these two national interests should be brought into line. And protect the Adriatic and don't throw your feet at yourself on that road to the EU. The second important aspect that the ovatum has is an aspect of credibility and that is again a question of national interest. Because Croatia has the right to expect it to be led by credible politicians. It is a national interest. Croatia has the right to expect that there are such politicians who will know why they are pushing for it, how politicians who will not speak to each other today will do so. It's about the moment. It's an anal interest. A third important aspect is the ability of politics and politicians to lead the country. dA defends her interests and her sovereignty and that they do so in a good way. I've been asking today all day after this debate yesterday about VAT and the deficit that will be presented by the former government's deficit as an explanation for this proposal and appeared. He appeared today at a meeting of the government in Pozega, an incredibly real deficit of the former government, as Sanader says the decision was the result of the deficit negotiations with the international community when the first decision was made. Unbelievable. Such deficits I think we'll find from day to day if the legal advance comes will be such and the deficit. And watch out for that man speaking in Požega. At the cabinet meeting, the leader did not come to the Parliament, he did not have the courage to come here before a representative and to the public to explain these proposals. Like it's some kind of routine decision. It's some kind of little lawless thing. He's having a government session today. So they asked for a hearing tomorrow when there's no government session. to come to the Parliament. The government's shadow is an excuse not to come in front of the public, there's no loop. There's no nerve coming. But there's a loop in Pozega saying that the former government has been defiantly acting. And now that this has got to correct that deficit behavior. And that's what a man who is six months ago said, because the convention is very clear that it is not in agreement, but unilaterally, that no one is questioning it. Then six months ago, he said it was declared unilateral and today he's negotiating with the former government ds did not agree. Why the interest at sea? It's one aspect of protecting national intereds at sea. Be careful on December 15th a few days before Sanader's government enters the cabinets, the head director of the European Commission's Fisheries Administration offers the start of expert negotiations on the regulation of fishing aspects with a view to the document we are discussing today. Five months in a month doesn't work for that man. Five months. Vice President Hebrang today says the duration of preparation beware of the five months of preparation for man to respond to the call for negotiations to begin. With the preparation to respond to a letter, a pen is given for 5 months to answer that letter. Protection of national interests in the EU. Because it is a national interest we cannot act irresponsiblely. We did not behave like this in government, nor can we behave irresponsiblely in opposition. It is national interest to enter Croatia to join the EU. And I've had my doubts, personally, I've had great doubts until the performance of Vice President Hebrang. We didn't have Prime Minister Sanader here to explain the international situation, but the vice president here made it clear there was no veto threat. Neither Italy nor Slovenia. There's no threat to the veto. Be careful there's a threat to the veto, it's a serious issue that we might take this proposal unanimously. But Vice President Hebrang says there's no such thing as a condition. So if that's the way it is, then we're going to do this proposal at all, so why are we changing the decision we've already made once? Because no one here has answered that question. Ms. Sanader is here to explain this to us if the most responsible man in power, to explain Croatia's international position at the moment. But all that came and came that he had come and explained it was me who wondered how they trusted him. I wonder how you trust him. Because he said six months ago, and since we've already opened this topic, then we should say that the EU can't pressure her with full responsibility, I say. He says Sanader. cannot pressure Croatia d not declare an economic belt, as this is based on a Convention on the Law of the Sea which is older than all decisions of the European Union. So with full responsibility six months ago, he claims that no one can pressure Croatia to have the right to unilaterally declare it. Today with this proposal, it's the opposite. How can I trust him to be right when he said this six months ago? Or that he's right today when he claims otherwise. Where the criteria are how to trust him I'm a man who'd want to believe. Prime Minister Sanader. He's my prime minister, too. But how can I trust a man who makes different arguments about the same thing? Which now claims to be black and then gives away white. How can we trust him when he says six months ago there are times when we have to take the risk. Aware of the fact that certain EU esnages could also object to this. Because it is a question of our journey to the EU for which the European Commission must bring an avis for a month and say whether Croatia has candidate status or not. But I'm also sure, therefore, the prime minister of today, that we will have within the 15, and that I am not speaking within the 10 new ones, there is Slovenia, as many people and advocates and peoples who have done it and who will understand that it can't only be seen through whether that decision is now appropriate or not. He was sure we'd have support in the Slovenians, too. On what basis did he base his own safety? Or it was such an empty word, irresponsible behavior. And how do we trust him now? It is the ability of politicians and politicians to be responsible whether they are in power or in opposition. They have to defend the country's interest, they have to defend its sovereignty, they have to negotiate. Because running politics isn't that simple. You know, when someone, after one meeting with the IMF, withdraws at the same time and calls an emergency session of the government in a panic, at the same time withdraws their main pre-election promise, then he gives up negotiating. When someone, without even knowing who's putting pressure on them, pulls a fishing ecological zone without telling us why. Why for God's sake? Then he can't negotiate, he can't do the job he's been competing for and he's won and it's a threat to national interest because we as a people have the right to expect us to be led by people who know it, who want it, who can. I'm closing up. The SDP has offered you an amendment. He better formulate the bill. You will show that you are able to accept that amendment...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13373	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13374	Dear Mr. President, it is incorrect to quote a representative of Stazic who quotes a phonogram. The quote is incomplete and out of context, therefore incorrect, and I'll remind you one more time. At that time, the question was asked in this assembly whether you were for the economic belt proposed by the HSP or for the strange beak proposed by HSS and HSP, and then the HDZ response was we for the economic belt, pardon the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13375	Franjo Arabović rectification of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13376	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like to correct the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative, Nenad Stazic. He said these words to quote that the Prime Minister, Mr Ivo Sanader, is afraid to go before this Parliament and explain. Well, I don't think the president's afraid, but he proved it by taking over the state you left it in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13377	Ivan Jarnjak rectification of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13378	Your Honor, Mr. President, it's an incorrect assumption that the decision is being changed, the decision is only being postponed. When it comes to national interests, gentlemen, in 25.6.91, you left the assembly when it was due to vote on whether to team up with the former Yugoslavia. What about the Piran Bay and the signature? So give it a little bit when we talk about it, about national interests, so we're not gonna rip each other apart like that. So where does that lead us?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13379	Marian Bekavac rectification of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13380	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Stazic said Prime Minister Sanader cannot negotiate with the world. My correction to the incorrect allegations is that more Prime Minister Sanader and Foreign Minister Zuzul have done at the promotion of Croatia in the world in five months than their government in four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13381	Are colleagues and colleagues correct in laughing and laughing to welcome the opinions of those we disagree with? Doesn't that mean that, then those who use it need to be prepared then to be in the same way, to be to them, to be theirs, and not to be angry then if their words are thrown out laughing and laughing, and there won't be any arbitrationist who will judge this is ridiculous, this is exposed to ridicule with the right and please if you demand equal and fair treatment of all then let's wake up in such a way that we won't, as you do now and prove right now, laughing and smiling at MPs as a rule, and then that rule will be applied to everything equally. It's not parliamentary. Injury of my colleague Lucin's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13382	As for Mr. President, these last ones of yours, I'll say, be patient. You're a long time ago you can wait a little. So I'll say actually, I agree completely with you about this laugh because...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13383	Please, colleague Lucine, who is and in what way did the Rules of Procedure hurt and what provision?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13384	The last colleague who spoke hurt Rule 209 because Mr Stazic did not say in any sentence that Mr Sanader could not negotiate but said that Croatian negotiators are bad. He didn't say anything about Mr. Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13385	It's not an injury from a colleague of the Rules of Procedure, Lucin. Please, if one claim is corrected then it cannot be intervened with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. But how correct is it for you to go and tell your colleague like this... Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13386	So if you'll excuse me, please. If you need me here, I'll take your warning. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13387	Don't make any warnings. Why do we have to go that way... Why alluding to someone's age, to someone's own. Please, replicas. Dear Representative Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13388	Mr. Stazic said this government has a deficit. It wasn't this government that made the deficit, it was you, like we said yesterday. And you say you should have a capable government. You should. Even more capable than this one, but we don't have that chance, we should wait for the next election, when you win, Mr. Stazic, and we'll have a capable government. But it says that it is necessary to protect national interests and protect national interests to enter the European Union, that is correct, and there are ways to lead a policy and enter the European Union. So you need subtlety in politics, actually. So you're falling into one contradiction, you're saying target, and then you're saying it's very good to go to that goal, but then you're also saying you need to be able to negotiate there, and negotiating is a subtle way to run politics. That's the thing is you. However, politics, Mr. Stazic, is neither black nor white, it is mostly, as the people would say, colorful. So this government has to recognize the spectrum of color in politics. Can't suffer from daltonism, can't distinguish colors, you know? She's doing it, too. You're saying you're looking for a reason why this decision will be extended. The reason was stated by the Deputy Prime Minister Hebrang, that there is no pressure on Croatia. Now there's that more subtle part of the problem. ... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13389	Thank you very much, colleague Baby. Thank you very much. Thank you. ... Well, it's probably a weaker sense because there are reasons that affect your senses. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13390	Yes, Mr. Baby. Any policy black, white, colorful, it must take care of national interests, it must be responsible. And politicians must be in power and in opposition because national interests are above party interests. And for that reason, Mr. Baby, with full right, I can tell you and your party, you weren't a good opposition. You didn't take care of national interests when it came to working with The Hague. You know what you've been doing and how you've complicated your former government to maintain this cooperation. In the national interest, let's not fall into isolation without actually succumbing to the first, mildest pressure. You wanted to tear down that government, call it treasonous, organise the sessions, you didn't act in the national interest. You didn't act in the national interest either when this decision was made because you claimed that it was below what could be done, so that you could make another decision. For you to immediately declare an exclusive economic belt. You didn't take care then that the International Community existed, that it had its demands and that it had its expectations from Croatia. You've worked irresponsiblely and with the opposition, and now I'm just inviting you to work a little more responsibly when you're in power. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13391	Replica, the esteemed representative of Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13392	Comrade Stazic, you have extended this topic from a fishing ecological zone to a national interest and to the credibility of politicians in the national interest. You said Croatia deserves, Croatia needs to get, has the right to expect a better government, better politicians, more credible. What does it mean that someone should give it to you? Mr. Stazic, Croatia is a democratic country and it has an institute for democratic elections. This is where politicians' statements are evaluated, where their actions are assessed. And not only that, but the results. Which means you weren't a good government, you didn't get confirmation of your credibility in the last election. Prove yourself again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13393	Replicate response, honourable representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13394	Yes, Mrs. Katarina Fuchek, I've expanded this subject a little bit, but now I'm going to narrow it down real quick. We offered as a party, as a club amendment to this text. We think he's far more quality and better at sorting this out. Here's just one better solution because it has a defined deadline. Are you up to the task of protecting national interests you will also show on this test. Will you accept that amendment, will you be able to admit that we have solved this issue better than you, that we have offered a better solution? Will you show that your national interest is above party interest? This will be a test for you, too, to show if you're capable of being a better authority than you were an opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13395	Minister Hebrang, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13396	Thank you very much. Honored ladies and gentlemen, just a few, I certainly do not enter these polemics, but only a few perhaps explanations or an explanation of this proposal. I see that some elements of the proposal are not well understood. Mr. Stazic says that I said that after 5.6 months since we received an offer for the fisheries partnership negotiations, it takes our preparations to prepare for 5.6 months. No, I don't. I said that preparatory talks are ongoing and that they are not simple and that we do them daily and every week and that they will surely result in the end of the fishing partnership agreement. Therefore, the discussions are ongoing, and that is why we are asking for this delay. The second thing that may have been incomprehensible again was the blackmail talk. I repeat for the second time, there's no blackmail from anyone. And that's what I want to point out, and the question is, why are we putting this off? Well, that's because we want to run our active policy, not our blackmail policy. And that's why we're going with the initiative, and we're not waiting for any situations where we'd be in a subordinate position to respond to some kind of blackmail. So this is not a policy of giving in to pressures, this is an active policy of the Croatian government that knows what it wants and what it does. And in the end, I have to answer to Mrs. Anticevic who told me to lie because it's still an insult. I don't lie or tell lies, I just occasionally tell lies, and that's much more polite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13397	Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13398	It's an incorrect quote from Mr. Hebrang. He said it was not true that, or he claimed that this was not politics, therefore, suspensions or quotes, let's say, giving in to, again quotes of blackmail. It's that it's an administratively active policy. But this is an active policy since giving up already reached and going to a lower level. I mean, that's clear and I mean, to every average intelligent man in Croatia. So I mean really, so why do you assure us that it's green yellow, red blue, etc.? I mean, we really see now in the image and work of Mr. Hebrang Dr. Jeckyll and Mr. Hyde and we're trying to guess which one is the right person. But this is about politics, and it's hard to imagine that such an ambivalence can be the policy of one government is not credible, and we here don't know what the government represents. .../The speaker turned off, then subsequently turned on./, and in fact he's giving up what you've already achieved before that it's not enough. I mean, amazing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13399	Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13400	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I have to say that I'm really confused starting like this, I'm going to say that the HDZ Club will support the proposal, so the first proposal to declare the economic belt. I'll explain it in fact. The topic is of paramount importance for Croatia, which does not matter at all in power, who in opposition. This is about Croatia. Great, great. And I think I stick to the rules that no Croatian party should be discredited, regardless of the name that is in the Croatian Parliament, and I think the HDZ really knows what it is doing. and even thinks he knows what Croatian interests are. and who explained what affected us to give up the Croatian interest in six months, the declaration of the economic belt and imagine, says Mr. Hebrang, or Sanader, or Sanader, Mr. Hebrang. So that we don't now talk about making a decision about declaring an economic belt, because that would be the whole of it, but we need to talk when it's part of the content of the economic belt. Because that part of content bothers the European Union and its neighbours, but it would not bother the whole. Really good. So the HDZ really knows what Croatian interests are. But what Croatian interests are when they give up, did not explain to us what they consist of. Or maybe HDZ thinks Croatian interests are equal to HDZ interests. It is not allowed, it is simply not Croatian interest. The Croatian interest is when all the political factors agree on what is in the common interest of the citizens of this country. Since we did not get an answer as to what motivated the government to give up its position when the decision was made, so the HDZ motivated it to give up its position when the decision to declare an ecological fishing zone was made. I have to suspect that once they didn't know what national interests were. Or they're hiding our real reasons. It doesn't matter what they're hiding from us, they can, because we're in competition. But citizens shouldn't do that. It's not even fair to the citizens. For this reason, I would really ask for at least an appropriate statement of what has decided to postpone the application of the ecological fishing zone decision and protect the Adriatic in this regard? As far as success or failure is concerned, I object either to talks with the European Union or to neighbours. I cannot understand that Croatia has no identical interest with the European Union and with its neighbours when it comes to the ecological protection of the Adriatics of the Croatian and European Adriatic. So did we at least try to apply that part of the decision immediately? In the interest of everyone who lives or will live on the Croatian Adriatic, and Europe. We haven't even tried to keep part of the decision in the national interest of Croatia. That kind of explains Mr. Deputy Prime Minister's appearance when he said that co-operation is the politics of this government. It's written in a stenogram today. I agree to be cooperative, but answer me what is the interest of Croatia in this co-operation? What is the interest in this co-operation, which is the interest that leads the Croatian government to be so cooperative? So yesterday, you gave up the VAT cut. And not to say it again, not to say it again, but much has been said about what we all gave up in 20 days. That's why confusion can't be an ally of anyone, co-operation can't be an alliance to anyone unless he knows what his interests are. And something else these interests must really be national, not party. Regardless of how the party saw itself, it did not represent all citizens or get a mandate from all citizens, even though it had a percentage won by HDZ in the elections, it only meant something about 25% of the support of the entire Croatian people. That is why I really think that all Croatian parties in this Assembly are Croatian and that they all think that they have national interests. But let's not confuse the national side of the party and that's a general call for conflict, not a solution to the problem of state and national interest. And I think it is a problem if we do not know how to preserve at least the ecological protection of the Croatian Adriatic and the European Adriatic. Finally, I say, therefore, I call on you to read a good proposal for amendments to the SDP Club, indeed in these circumstances, in a very subtle way, it wants to protect, even strengthen the position of the Republic of Croatia to get maximum in talks, and that can be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13401	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13402	Your Honor, Mr. President. On several occasions, MP Leko said they could not recognise national interests. We did, before you recognized it and wanted to recognize it. And the last example is when we talk about national interests, then it's a signed contract, a initial agreement between Racan and Drnovšek on the admission of the entire Piran Bay of Slovenia to which they are being called today, and who are still trying to use it for their own benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13403	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13404	Mr. President. I certainly know that you well-known Rules of Procedure and that we have amended the provision of Article 209, that I have not mentioned by any vote the agreements with anyone but the European Union and the ecological belt. No Racan, no Capricorn, no baby I ever mentioned in this. Please hold order in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13405	You have generally mentioned unrecognizableness and ignorance, so you are responsible for who recognizes and how. Now, that's you, you can't pollemize or correct the quote. Yeah. Florian Boras, a respected representative. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13406	Mr. Representative, dear colleague of the Vice-President of the Legislative Committee. You said, you tried to define an ecological fishing belt according to international law, interpreting it as a rope or a little rope, etc. from the economic belt. It's not possible and it's incorrect. The economic belt is clearly defined by international law and then the economic belt has declared more than 150 countries in the world. The notion of an eco-fishing belt does not mean anything, the unknown is in international law, and the profession and practice of it and such a decision is not protected because it is simply a strange beak and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13407	We will again welcome the opinion that we disagree with laughter and ridicule. Very correct, very correct. And I, one of the MPs, will evaluate what is justified and correct, so what deserves a laugh, it's also very correct. Yes, and tossing outside the presidential table, counterpart Vujic is also very business. Replica is a respected representative of Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13408	Mr Leko initially claimed that Croatia is giving up the declaration of economic, that we voted and then gave up the declaration of the economic belt. We didn't. As I said in my opening statement on behalf of the Club in my presentation, we voted with the HSP, on the declaration of the economic belt, it is seen from the record and exactly as what representative voted for himself I know that I voted for the declaration of the economic belt. And you claimed that it was basically the same as the ecological-fishing belt, so when it was the same then we were in favour of a stronger formulation that was covered by international conventions. And that's the least of us, and that wouldn't stop us from having this attitude right now because we're running politics. We're negotiating. The reason is in subtlety in the conduct of foreign policy that shows with its every nerve this government. It shows that kindness in the negotiations. You understand? E.A., why are we looking for this? Here's me talking for the third time? We are looking for why the European Union has told us that we have unilaterally made a decision, it has been called this way and we have made it unilaterally without talking to our neighbours. And so it says in that letter they sent us, don't lose sight of it. Because it also says that I take their letter more as an observation than a commendation. You understand? ... [[You can't hear the speaker away from the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13409	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Yeah, I know, he asked a man, but ask. The answer to the line, dear colleague Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13410	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm very afraid because Mr. Luka Baby says you can do anything, I'm afraid of it. If you all could do anything, I'm afraid of it. I'm afraid of politicians who can do anything, colleague Bebic, and you claim that you can do anything. However, the quality of your authority is interoperability, not the protection of national interests, that's a statement, no, that was a statement here today, and you can stand up to the Deputy Prime Minister and not to me because I didn't say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13411	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13412	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It's really hard to understand this subtlety, this tiny tie Coco Chanel said is less. Here's what we're hearing from HDZ right now. It's really hard to understand that disarmed and without any arguments without any of us asking and that's how we go into negotiations. When six months ago in this Croatian Assembly discussed one issue of two possibilities whether the economic belt or the fishing ecological zone, of course it was immediately called Prime Minister Ivica Racan, and he came, not the first time, every time he came. But today it seems to me that the Prime Minister has not come that his absence is the most eloquent. He's talking in essence for you. And it's not pleasant to come here, it's already been talked about, come and say we're giving up on it, yesterday you're giving up on VAT, Mr. President a lot of laughter was then on the right, the party was because there were no cameras, then you're not talking about it now respecting our laughter.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13413	There was a laugh yesterday night when there was a representative who usually had, who laughed at the MPs from your side.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13414	Mr. Ivica Racan, Mr. Prime Minister Racan then came honestly and openly said that, yes, Croatia is in a delicate situation, of course that this honesty has not been recognized many times. Many times it is risky to be honest at that particular moment and the truth is that lies are faster to come to happiness but it is short-lived. It's short breath policy. And the prime minister, then Prime Minister Racan, also said how to reconcile the two interests of Croatia's most national but equally national interest to join the European Union. And we got what was most possible that when we got it, of course, it was ridiculed, Mr. President, you said then it seemed to me that it was a strange beak and things like that, there was a rumor that whoever we were listening to some badgers, were being insulted by diplomats, representatives of the European Union. And Mr. Today's Prime Minister, at the time, Sanader was saying that this was a disgrace, that this was the incompetence of the current government led by Prime Minister Racan. And where is your ability now? You're giving up in advance. You're telling yourself that none of you are asking for it from what's already been done. And so you're going to negotiate to get something more. So come on, please. But we can understand that it's hard because we know it best but the way you do it is the easiest way to go where the water takes you. But it's a question of knowledge and competence and ability and nerve, and it's hard to negotiate, and you don't know, because you can't know. While you were originally in power, you brought the country in because of such a policy of conflict, nn democracy, not openness, inability to communicate and communication is always difficult, because democracy is difficult because it is responsible. And democracy is nothing more than a conversation, it's these subtleties and negotiations, but they're open and not secret negotiations. And you see now, by yesterday, when you were in opposition, you were also constantly implementing one conflict policy, making it impossible for the government to fail. That was your goal. You didn't care about an ecological zone like you weren't today. You care about Croatia only then and if you are in power. And that's obvious. Day in and day out. Gentlemen, there's been a conversation here. There's something here. Prime Minister Sanader is not here, so at least he tried to save this situation in some way, so he... Tried how our distinguished colleague Stazic says and announces it again by deficit. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the rest is completely unclear why, but if you're really in trouble, we haven't shown for the first time that we're capable. We also showed that while we were before the opposition, while we were in power and now. So don't just measure us with your elbow. We'll take that part of responsibility and understand. It's not easy. But speak plainly because if you keep secret, you will be held accountable. But it's particularly difficult if what you really said is true, Mr. Hebrang, is that you're leading an active policy by giving up what's already been achieved and none of you are asking for anything. It's a dangerous policy that doesn't really lead anywhere. What European Union? Well, the goal, well, is where we're headed. There's no policy consistent. That's what my colleague Pusic was talking about. We still don't know what your policy is about? Here, but unfortunately the results of this policy are evident. And we, as one wicked and irresponsible opposition, could rejoice, but that is not the case because the consequences of your policy will all be experienced very quickly. I think a half, here's to running politics like a Rembaudt drunk ship.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13415	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Marijan Bekavac. Kayo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13416	Mr. President,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13417	No problem. For my health, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13418	Mr. President-in-Office, a respected representative, said they were offended diplomats of the European Union. That's not true. No one insulted the European Union diplomats but did so in a former meeting in April last year when he said that he also made a professional insult by saying that they do not know how to work and not only understand their work, but also beyond the EU diplomats.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13419	Dear Representative Pero Mlinarić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13420	Mr. President, Ms. Anticevic's esteemed representative said that we are our government that she is incompetent. In 1991, we were a party to dangerous intentions. If that were true today, Madam Reverend Slobo would be your president. Maybe we'd be happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13421	Tomislav Culjak. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13422	Well, dear Mr. President, counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic said that former Prime Minister Racan came honestly to the parliament, but that it was not recognised. Well, I think it is recognized and it is actually well recognised by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the last elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13423	Replica is a respected representative, Vice President Luka Bebic. The replica of Luka Babybic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13424	Mrs. MP has here identified the increased tone as usual, that HDZ and the opposition did not want the former government's success and that they were evildoers. Those successes that I hadn't noticed, but maybe there was, uh... Madam MPs, we wish you many successes in the opposition. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're not going to do anything to distract you because every debate you have here, most of these discussions are very good, so I have long proposed that we give Mr. Stazic the exclusive right to always speak and ask questions. You were against putting this point on the agenda last year. But your coalition partner HSS put it on... That's the whole truth. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You had no intention of, as you claim, protecting Croatian national interests through the declaration of the economic belt because you were against it, and the HSS suggested that I explained whether it was before the elections itself, which is why I have only to say one thing here. The only one who repeatedly insisted on a long period of time to declare the economic belt was HSP. That's the whole truth. Don't take on that big idea that you didn't have at all, but you blocked even Tomcic and his HSS to make that decision and we voted for it together with the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13425	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13426	Well very briefly because it may have been difficult to replicate because you went into something that I didn't even say and there was no opportunity to react at all. But only now do you want to justify yourself for everything again unsuccessfully what you're doing right now. It's that tiny little bond of yours again, and we still don't understand it. But you don't tell us, I'm sorry. You are obliged to explain to the Croatian people what you are doing. Because you've won, you've won the election but not to do whatever you want, but to do what you've agreed to. You've already been much more than 10 points and 10 promises in just 6 months, but these are the questions that have been reached and please tell me why you're going back. You drag Croatia, you run Croatia but where? Not only are you leaning, but now you're pulling her back. You're giving up what's already been achieved. Well, if it's some kind of force or emergency, explain it. You're scared.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13427	Replica. Dear Representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13428	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues! You see, this is one of the hypocrisies that happens in this honorable House in these hours, and now I'm going to say why. We've been trying to get a lot of people to say that the Croat has a six-hour memory, six days, now we hear six months. I'd just like to remind you a little bit earlier on the same side that I've already mentioned and studied and we've tried to talk and lessons about dying state and now imagine now you're teaching me the same about national interests. Well, that's terrible, that's just terrible. But with this I will end up here mentioning Mr. Sanader the president of the Croatian government so a hundred times where he is, but I understand that he is even imagining some. And it's good that it is. That's great, that's right. But here, it's trying to question who benefits from this, who benefits. All of you as well as I do know that this is a benefit not to me or to you third parties and so on, but to Croatia and the Croatian people. That's certainly a good thing. And we really need to be at a height and accept it and face it and accept it as an exclusive reason and who will benefit from it. But I see what the problem has come into is a very specific proposal on the side of I think from an esteemed representative and says, so let us do it. As far as I'm concerned, sir, I'd leave it to you, but my people and your people won't. And what I can do for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13429	Replicant representative Ingrid Antičević marinović's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13430	He told us here more than once when he tried to explain himself to us, so do you understand? And it's really hard to understand this state of consciousness when something that used to be more, when you've been working out from the HDZ baths swearing that everything below the declaration of the economic belt is a national issue, asada giving up both from the fishing ecological zone and for us. So who can understand that. But that we don't understand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13431	Minister Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13432	Thank you very much. I'd just have to recomply my introductory exorcism I thought it was clear. Mrs. Zastupnica said we didn't explain why we're giving up an existing solution. Is that so? So first, we are absolutely not giving up, I said we are not giving up the Parliament's decision last year, but that we are only looking at one segment relating to the EU's postponement countries. We don't give up on atoms. but we are looking for a delay for tactical reasons to be able to complete the negotiations that are under way. We do not give up on the two existing ones because there is no existing one, since the existing entry into force for only 5 months means it is not existing. And the question is again either why we're giving up on the existing, it's not going to take effect for five months anyway, so there's no way back. And the third thing that was mentioned again was that we didn't explain why we're asking for a postponement. That's what I've been talking about for 10 minutes. So now you'd sum up why we're giving up, or why we're asking you to postpone what's been brought here. INSTITUTION of the reason for when you made your decision, you asked to postpone it by one year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13433	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13434	So I am correcting Mr Hebrang's incorrect allegations that this decision is only for EU countries. Mr. Hebrang, delay to postpone. It's a ten-year delay. The countries of the EU that we have made this decision are Slovenia and Italy, so we are not making Voo because of Norway. So, your story about us bringing in, I don't know what country to bring in a year and seven months ago and now for the same countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13435	correction of Ingrid Antiecevic Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13436	Mr. President, so here's Mr. Hebrang said we're not giving up, we're not giving up, because we can't give up on the nonexistent. Yeah. He's talking about a nonexistent decision. This is therefore incorrect because then it is precisely giving up this decision or the change of something that does not exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13437	I'm sorry. It's a simple controversy. You only polymize that with one position, and Mato Arlović is a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13438	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of the Deputy Prime Minister of Mr. Hebrang. When he said we're not giving up what's not there, it's not true. The decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea, which has been declared an ecological fishing band, came into force on the date of its adoption. And she's, as you know, published in the People's Newspaper. The problem is in something else's decision so there's a she's in effect and there's no doubt whether she has it or not. here is the question actually about when the application of the legal regime begins in the implementation of this decision. And in fact, the government needs to put a lot more effort into making legal regulations that will ensure the legal regime, on the ecological fishing band, so that it can be provided and implemented in the tenth month of the year when 12 months are up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13439	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13440	Well, the Deputy Prime Minister said he's giving up on tactical reasons because it's incorrect because it's an autonomous decision and Croatia's right. And there's no need to give up for anyone or anything unless we're faced with blackmail.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13441	Dear Representative Luka Rojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13442	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of fellow Members and fellow MPs. I can't start a debate on this subject without remembering on October 3rd last year when we talked almost all afternoon about the fishing ecological zone and the exclusive economic belt. And my discussion will probably be burdened by that very session. It seems to me that not that session that's been quite a pain in the ass for all of us MPs, there's one thing I don't see here tonight. At that time, two possible models were discussed and it was not entirely certain which of these two models would be accepted. It seemed that the Croatian Parliament, or it really was, decided on such an important topic. Tonight it seems to me that the decision has already been made, and that we in the House are wasting our time, and that it will be taken by the administration as proposed. Tot is what frustrations, what marginalizes this home, and what actually puts us before almost an act. like yesterday when we were discussing VAT and changing the law to be applied from 1 January 2001. And in fact, we've confirmed the law that still applies this year and today I'm going to repeat that it wasn't either a return or a raise or a release of VAT but none of that, it's said that there was a useless barren story in which there was no action, in which nothing was expected of anything... /The speaker turned off and turned on again./... It seems to me that it continues the same way today. We are delaying a decision that has yet to be applied since 3 October and we must... /The speaker has been turned off and turned back on./... and it is quite illogical that we did it yesterday and what we are doing today in this way if there is no such direct need for it. If Mr. Ivo Sanader were here to be President of the Croatian Government and to say what he didn't say exactly nine months ago, he saw the coincidence of the 3rd, but in October of last year or when he was saying what he was saying then, he would have made it much easier for me to make a decision, and he said, "From the previous presentation of clubs is visible who is for what." I'll say that the HDZ Club will also support the proposal, so the announcement of the economic belt. Then he continued: And when we have opened this topic, then it should be said that the European Union cannot put pressure on this full responsibility, I say, it cannot pressure Croatia not to declare an economic belt because it is based on the Convention on the Law of the Sea, which is older than all decisions of the Union. He continued: There is no European future of united Europe if it is worth double the rules. I could say that, too, and I agree with that claim. Thus, regardless of how much we may be: Somebody can say Croatia has no candidate status yet, so it can't even get involved in European affairs, it can get involved in European affairs, because Europe is not the European Union, Europe is all of us and the future of Europe depends on /The speaker is turned off and turned back on./... was the largest, medium or small. I will still speak on behalf of and quote Mr. Prime Minister because that evening he said: That some people, so please let them be angry at those who brought the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, because this convention clearly says that they are not in agreement, so not in a unilateral manner, but that no one is questioning it. I will also say a few quotes from Mr. President Ivo Sanader who said that night: About 130 countries here have declared and consumed the right that comes from the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 82. Our prime minister continued to say: Even more so, experts say that the European Union and what is very important recommends that Member States and candidates expand their control on uncontrollable fishing in international waters. Thus, by declaring the economic belt, we do what the European Union also recommends. I could probably spend the entire ten minutes quoting the distinguished Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader, and suggest what he suggested that night, but I won't. He suggested: Let's transfer this decision to Croatian citizens and let the referendum decide what Croatian citizens want in the next two weeks. And now, quite frankly, I can say, or our colleagues then didn't know what they were saying, and they pretended to know or now they know what they're saying, and they pretend they don't know. Both are the deceptions of both the representatives and the entire Croatian public, and this is unacceptable and totally irresponsible in these important topics. And I wonder what kind of message we're sending with these decisions to our fishermen, what kind of a message for the maritime orientation of our country that we all so warmly advocate. What a message for the future of Croatian citizens on our Adriatic. What is this message of concern for biological resources and how to assess this decision if it is not obeyed by fishermen at least as much as it respects their request for a ban on fishing for all over the course of one year believe if everything remains the same as before, that everything will be completely too late. That night... I'm going to talk a lot about a session that was on October 3rd, and that night I heard strange coins about what we were bringing in that night. We had doubts about it and we made sure that the exclusive economic belt and the fishing ecological zone were almost identical, that they differed only in 5% of the functions that the decision had in it, which are the functions that we assessed that evening may and will never be fulfilled on the Croatian Adriatic. But it wasn't enough not to get these kind of epithets. What you have suggested is neither rice nor kanac has been said by Mr. President of the Croatian Government Ivo Sanader, and others have added not only a pirka kanac it is a strange beak, and some have said it is even chubby, and I will say this decision if it is made in this way it is both foreign and yeast and the worst wine made of parched water and sugar from which long and always the head hurts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13443	You know, a colleague in the basics of a textbook has a legal term used in hybrid law, a legal hybrid between different legal institutes, and a legal theory is popularly referred to as a strange beak. That was, you're alluding to me too, and that's how you know it. Replica's esteemed representative Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13444	Mr. President, no elevated tones or fried index finger or scream can convince us of what the legal profession and science have long defined. The economic belt is a concept defined by international law and by the Code of the Sea, and as you have called it the ecological fishing belt is nothing in the legal sense of the words and of Europe and of the lawyers and those applying international conventions do not know what it means. The economic belt has been declared by hundreds, 130 or over 150 countries and the ecological fishing belt is nothing in legal terms and you have even delayed it. So that didn't come into effect either, which is what you're now saying we're postponing. Of course, we are forced because nothing in a stable way obliges us to at least explain to Europe and the world what it is in its own context. You claim that 95, someone just before said 60, someone 73, but it's not the notion of international maritime law and it's nothing and in that sense Mr. President I would ask you finally not to let the incorrect and incomplete quoting of President Sanader who is here as to God's quote already stand out a few times because I already told you quotes are incomplete and incorrect and they're given the question -- are you for an economic belt or for nothing, our answer was we for the economic belt. At that point, we were clear and we defended those attitudes. Furthermore, Mr. President, let me remind you of something else here television is not transmitting...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13445	Unfortunately, I can't let you because the time is up and I pray we stick to all the time it's settled by the Rules of Procedure. The reply to the replica is a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13446	Your Honor, I've quoted everything I've quoted from letter to letter and everything that's said is quite true. And as for the functions exclusively of the economic belt and the functions of the fishing ecological zone, I continue to argue that in the functions of the fishing ecological zone, almost 90% of the functions are exclusively of the economic belt, and if that is not quite true then I ask you to propose or propose a joint adoption of the exclusively economic belt. [[/Intruder: That's right.]] [[We have an amendment.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13447	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13448	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. If there was a big mirror in this hall that would broadcast to us along with the picture and quotes from your own discussions on the same subject, I wonder who would dare look at it today, and I also know who should look at it. Certainly not those who suggest making a decision today. Not long ago, they demanded the declaration of an exclusively economic belt, and the fishing ecological zone unfortunately, we heard today, calling it a strange beak, a hybrid, as said by the then representative Shex, present-day President of the Parliament, or as the current prime minister said, "butkourish", a typical product of old-known Croatian bargaining and conjecture policies. At that time, he swore that Croatia had international rights, and this right must also be respected by the European Union. It was thundering, this is about Croatia and Croatian interests. The European Union cannot pressure Croatia not to declare an economic belt because this is based on the Convention on the Law of the Sea, which is older than all decisions of the European Union. Europe is not the European Union, Europe is all of us and the future of Europe depends on every country and on every nation, however large, medium or small, it is finished quote. Now, that's how Prime Minister Sanader roared and, moreover, that someone will be angry, so please, let them be angry at those who have brought the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, because this Convention is very clear that they are, therefore, unilaterally, not in agreement but unilaterally, etc., etc. And last night we had the opportunity to listen to legal experts who spoke is a fishing ecological zone of the category of international law. We could have listened to that if we wanted to. We should not doubt that the MP at the time was unaware of the situation. In fact, he says himself, "I am aware of my words that I am saying here at the pay phone of the Croatian Parliament. There are some moments in which we must take the risk." Um, very strange. So he was very determined and very brave, and today? Today there is no opportunity, there is no courage to come before this Croatian Parliament and explain the reasons for this miraculous or strange beak that we are proposing today. At this very moment, a very pleasant lunch in Požega, and we can only speculate on what information he has. That today, far from the public, requires the parliamentary majority to obey, at the request of the European Union, what he considered insufficient. Did one of his closest party associates repeat his words in the Parliament today or yesterday? I quote: "I am correcting Mr Arlovic's claim that the declaration of the economic belt would risk conflict with the European Union.". That's not true. The European Union's policy must be brought into line with the UN Convention and Policy, not the other way around, and by 2007, those of us who fear that the European Union will close the door for this reason or for that reason will still have a thousand conditions that Croatia will have to meet whenever they want to say that about any other banal thing. They'll put it on us, and we'll go on forever and run for someone's terms. And finally, our dear colleague, Bebic, says, "I think we must clearly show that we are a sovereign state." Is this motion for a decision proof that we are a sovereign state? Where is the determination and calling for the adoption of the policy of the United Nations? Everything's gone, and all that's left is obedience, service and courtship. This is today the policy of our government, which until yesterday was a heroic Croatian chest. This advocacy and obedience policy offends the dignity of the Croatian people, insults the national interest. Such a policy can only be called one name, which is high treason. In order to meet the requirements of those which until a few months ago have been claimed to have an understanding and that the European Community countries cannot share in small, large and medium-sized countries. On what has been happening to us lately, from giving up the VAT reduction to giving up the decision to declare a fishing ecological zone, we can observe two people of one policy and find evidence of one hypocritical policy. Just a few months ago, a referendum was requested to declare whether it was an exclusive economic belt or an ecological zone. And today, far from that same nation, what is based on international law is taken away from him and on what is rightful to him. Whose name does this government rule? Certainly not in the name of the people, for at that time they would not fear him, neither him nor his opinion. Where are the fishing protests today? They protested because they were convinced that in the variant of the ecological zone, they were not given enough. They're being taken away today, and they're silent because there's no mentor who's going to buy political points on their accident. Gentlemen, if you are unable to carry the burden of power to the benefit of those to whom you are so easily invited... /The speaker turned off and subsequently turned on./... if possible not to turn off the microphone. And events with Hague indictments, quick and easy to give up on the most important pre-election promises, the apparent non-execution of commitments to its coalition partners, the sadistic self-rejection of the rights which... /The speaker excluded, and subsequently included./... masochistic self-rejection from the rights arising from sovereignty clearly indicates that you are not capable. Today we are told there is no pressure, there is no blackmail and I quote the Deputy Prime Minister: "we consider that a potentially possible problem.". Imagine, we think it's a potentially possible problem. And now what is it? We were accused of bargaining and of a well-known bargaining Croatian policy, and now, in the act of servitude and advocacy, because they bring national harmful... /The speaker is excluded and subsequently included./ Mr. President, I'm asking for protection because my colleagues are shutting down the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13449	I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13450	You don't see much and you don't hear much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13451	I haven't seen and don't insinuate that I can see that someone's shutting down your microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13452	Look, here's what you can't see right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13453	Can I see that someone's turning off your microphone?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13454	Mr. Hebrang said, "No pressure but out of fear of anger.". So, preventively, and this is a typical advocacy in the service of service and voluntary denial of sovereignty, and I am very interested when we vote on this proposal for a decision on how to vote. Some of the colleagues will lower their heads and vote for a decision, not wanting to let their party down. Others of their colleagues will remain consistent with their nature and will proudly raise their hand in spite of and do not think of what the national interest is. But to remember, let's listen to what enlightener Antun Radic told us. A man learns and sees that apart from nature in man there is something else to be treated for. That thing, that's the human hand and its source, God. Man is thus different from an animal that is apart from nature, which is, and is, and that is, disproved and rebuked, knowledge and recognition, and that which is not always, but it would be, that is, what the soul weighs for, and is not satisfied until it is achieved, and that is every good, and in politics it is righteousness. When we vote, the Croatian Peasant Party Club will listen to what its soul says, and you listen to what nature tells you. You didn't hear this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13455	A colleague of Lalic's. To declare the Government of the Republic of Croatia a high treason is a serious insult. Veleizija is the most severe criminal act against its own people and their own country. In all criminal laws, as well as in the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia. Those who once did so in this congregation received both reminders and words. I'll give you a warning now. And please, why use such qualifications that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is a high treasonous government? Leave thanks for another occasion and another place, because the same way you insinuate it, insinuate it, I stress several times today, you enter with me in the polemics, look at any law textbook, and you will see that when a legal institute is made of different legal institutes that legal theorists call it a strange beak. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13456	And even though you, Mr. President, have been making an explanation of the warning, you said in part what I intended to say, but I will repeat it. Eco fishing zone doesn't mean anything except part of Jarun Lake. So that's one thing you euthanized right away and when he was born. So let's clear up the concepts here and let's be clear, you didn't bring anything into the international eco-fish zone doesn't mean anything, it's just part of Lake Jarun and nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13457	Ivan Jarnjak, a respected representative, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13458	Your Honor, Mr. President. Several practically when you look at the whole speech he will enter the history of the Croatian Parliament with hate and the way it is spoken to one party, according to the Croatian government which is legally elected by the Croatian people. If high treason is a national interest, it's an incorrect allegation. But if it is, then you as a lawyer must know that you must report it to the state authorities, that someone has committed treason. If it's hypocritical politics, then you haven't explained what it is and where it's in some way hypocritical, and it's not hypocritical. And in the end, you ask, in whose name does the government rule? In the name of the people who gave her the 23rd. The 11th trust, and he took it away from you. Out of all that hatred for that same people who took away your right to continue ruling, you have reached out to those dictionaries who are inappropriate with us in the Parliament, to our authority which has been legally elected by the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13459	Thank you very much. Jure Bitunjac is a respected representative, a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13460	Mr. President, I apologize, I raised the yellow plate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13461	If you've picked up yellow, then you'll come when the replicas come. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13462	So I didn't think I'd have to tell my dear I'd tell the maid to answer and correct the quote as I answered Mrs. Pusic. It is incorrect, it is entirely incorrect that the HDZ government is running a service and obedience policy. This government runs a clear policy that it has put into its programme. She runs the policy that the Croatian people gave her in the last elections. And as for the unbelief that you alluded to change attitudes, I would remind you that a politician must be responsible for the moment he operates and must recognize when what move can be made. We recognized it in the '90s, so we recognize it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13463	Ivan Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13464	Thank you, Mr. President, very briefly. The esteemed representative said that we should be guessing what information Sanader has. No, we don't. We know this information here and between us Deputy Prime Minister who has repeatedly spoken and explained and is now at his disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13465	Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected Vice-President Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13466	Well, it's a lot of bile in the debate of distinguished colleague Lalic. She mentioned betraying all the weight of those actual weights of those words, said the esteemed president of the Croatian Parliament. Well, it's clear to me that you know the weight of high treason. As you made your original programme of Stjepan Radic when you joined the SDP coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13467	Let's not use fellow Milinovic in the same way as those words, and it's not right for you to perform the same way. Zdenka Babić-Petrichevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13468	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13469	Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13470	Who's got the word now? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I could really replicate not only two minutes on which I have the right, but perhaps 20 minutes on the spoken 10 minutes of distinguished colleagues and my friend Ljubice Lalić with regard to treason, treason, etc. So I'll start in a row if I get there. I think you must read the quote of Antun Radic at the HSS Club and not just once, but every time your club starts. That's one thing. The withdrawal of VAT and the addressed decisions today are both economic and political and that is how, as determined by the Croatian Democratic Union as the ruling party, a responsible party to the Croatian state, the Croatian people has been proven to be a full 15-year-old. The very people you deceived in the Croatian people in such a way that you told Tomcic the following about the 2000 elections. You made a public contract commitment to the peasants. What you did out of it than... to the pensioners and the others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Thank you very much, dear colleague. My colleague Babic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13471	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Mate Štimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13472	Mr. President, I will only correct the assumption that the Croatian government is afraid of the Croatian people. The Croatian Government is neither afraid nor has reason to fear the Croatian people and the Croatian Government speaks for the people who gave it and trust for it, I just don't know on whose behalf you just said it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13473	Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13474	Mr. President, I would like to react after such a rude step by colleague Lalic. Although I think it's also to understand and the way it comes forward, because the very intention of the HSS when it went with the proposal of this decision was to collect a few cheap political points, as it went through in the elections, we saw. I also understand the present step because the fact that the lines after the last lines are a little bit disintegrated in order to consolidate. ... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13475	I'm sorry I can't hear, I can't hear because my colleague speaks very quietly, so please continue. Keep hearing about what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13476	Thank you, Mr. President. Croatian Deputy Prime Minister Mr Hebrang has pointed out and cited several times and I believe that we have all heard that in June we expect to get candidate status.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13477	My fellow Sopcier, thank you very much. We've got time. We have a correction to the incorrect quote and time. My colleague Kramarić, here's your violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13478	I am, Mr. President, really asking you to protect this House from a truly inappropriate tone and vocabulary that is being used completely unnecessaryly. I consider you an old, one of the oldest representatives here... precisely because you as chairman can be offended here and the ladies, there are insults and clubs and here you end up being insulted and MPs who... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] they're not mentioned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I ask you, indeed, not a single statement can be valued whether he is rude or less rude. That's what the public thinks. We can't tell each other what a stand-up he was. I'm really asking you, there's an offended lady here, an offended club and offended representatives. And protect us, please protect us because this is not an atmosphere where it can be overly concluded and debated.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13479	And when the most severe insults of qualifications are used, slander and everything else comes to pass. I try to keep all MPs in line, not to insult, why some do it, and why they create one flammable tension, why they come forward with such a negative charge, emotionally toward others, it causes that climate. Replica, respected representative of Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13480	Here's what I'm going to start with what you've finished, the whole avalanche of these immodest and offensive statements that I condemn... started with Mrs. Lalic's qualification when she called...... [[The speaker doesn't understand, away from the microphone.]] when she called the government that, the high treasonous government, etc., that's where it started, and then, in the same style, it unwarrantedly continued. [[Intruder: Buddy Baby, you can't hear, please according to the microphone.]] Luka Trconic, when the debate was held on the 10th month in the economic belt, suggested to lawmakers after the rejection of the proposal to declare the economic belt, Luka Trconic said that the eco-fishing belt is the same as the economic belt. So when something content is the same, let's go to the original, not the copies or the original. So it was your proposal for an economic belt that was actually in dissent with your coalition partner, the SDP, who was against coming to the Parliament at all. 3. Ten. In 2003, then, a month or a month and a half before the elections, and we know what motives they were because you didn't do it three years ago. As HSP all along had such a... I have to say it for the use they're not. [[The speaker doesn't understand, away from the microphone.]] So your coalition partner was against it, and then you said it was this same fishing ecological zone as the economic belt, and then what's the problem? We were for the economic belt, we don't run away from it if we were. And today, we are in the final line of the next United Nations resolution on the International Convention on the Law of the Sea and the like that that is true of our... What's he in? [[The speaker doesn't understand, away from the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13481	Thank you, dear fellow Baby, thank you very much. Reply to the replica of the respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13482	I thank you, Mr. President, so here we are constantly trying to be somehow convinced of my colleagues on the left-hand side that the fishing ecological zone is nothing. If she's nothing and she's nothing, then what does the vice president think she might potentially be causing problems? Which is why it was the European Union's reaction, it's zero and it doesn't bother anyone. So what are we ending for now? And if so, let's just vote the exclusive economic belt so we don't have to decide between different opinions, different legal experts because one specifically says that the fishing ecological zone is a category of international law and that it is the international law of Croatia. Some of them aren't that imperative, let's get rid of these dilemmas, let's let the fishermen and our fishermen can catch in that fishing zone. On these waters I can't catch others, in those waters we do environmental protection and restore flora and fauna, that's the point of it. And it doesn't matter what it's called. If you say it's nothing and there's going to be another fish in those waters, it doesn't make sense at first that it will be abolished if it is so let's vote the exclusive economic belt and it's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13483	Deputy Prime Minister Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13484	Thank you very much. I must explain again the works of this proposal because I see that Mrs. Lalic did not understand what I was saying. First of all, I never said we were suggesting it out of fear so we could piss someone off. I definitely didn't say that, so I'm asking that the record be served, and I've explained it five, six times, which is why we're making such a proposal, and I think it's been reasoned. Secondly, I simply have to react and these are such attacks against Prime Minister Sanader and I must react because I represent here under his authority the Government of the Republic of Croatia. She said Madam Representative that Prime Minister Sanader is far from public. It is not far from the public, but it is Madam Representative at a session of the Croatian Government which is a public session... And I'm taking the opportunity to say that Mr. Sanader wasn't on a swim trip in the fishing-environment belt, he was at the government meeting he was running. [[Applause]] So at a public session without hiding how you speak. And secondly, he's here now, so I'm not going to defend him anymore, he's going to defend himself, but I have to answer to you that this government is high treason and that it has carried out high treason. Since I was the only representative of that government while you said it, I will answer you on my behalf. I have built into the foundations of this Croatian state most of my life. And that I'm a traitor to the assignment of a person who can tell me that you're Mrs. MPs. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13485	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13486	I didn't say in any word that someone was swimming in the fishing-environment zone, and that's a completely false allegation. And when I am corrected, let me take a phonogram and let it be read. Such, such a policy
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13487	If someone unbuttons it, please take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13488	Well, it's unplugging, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13489	Stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13490	It's me, Mr. President, may I continue?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13491	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13492	I said it out loud, and I don't mind being corrected, but I want it to be principled, and that kind of policy can only be called one name, which is high treason. So I didn't call the government a traitor, I called the kind of policy I described. Mr. President, let me say yes and now, I thanked you for your warning because I deserved it. But I was terribly offended by me on the left. Please take a phonogram, read what your colleagues have been saying about, personally insulted, so if you are already giving notice then try to have the same criteria. I'll never get mad at you for giving me a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13493	Comrade Lalic, did you say to the ad-literaries that, the government's policy is high treason or that the government is high treasonous, it's quite irrelevant. You called the government a traitor or you called him a man who hobbled with a carpenter and you said you didn't call him a carpenter. I, well, if someone gets an epithet to run a high treason policy, then they're high treasonous. I don't know how you can be a traitor if you're conducting a non-suspecting policy. On behalf of the SDP Club What? [[No, I answered.]] Did you get that? Okay. Prime Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13494	Thank you very much, Mr. President. No, it's not about cameras. It's about the interest of Croatia, Mr. Representative. On my way back from Požega to Zagreb, I listened with the attention and attention of the debate in the Croatian Parliament and the sighs of the great rhetorical figure where is the Prime Minister? The Prime Minister was like the vice president said this morning at his job. He led the government's meeting in Požega, and the government felt that the Deputy Prime Minister would represent the proposal for this decision and that's why we decided and the Deputy Prime Minister was instead of going to Požeg and defending this amendment and supplementing the decision. But when you wanted it so much, here I am. And now I'm going to tell you what I think you're doing right now. I listened to most, most of the MPs on my left. I'm not from here because I guess it was turned off afterwards, but anyway, it's like this. Big words fell. And that yesterday we were talking to each other today. I'll answer that first. That's not true. Both yesterday and today and 15 years ago, this party that I'm headed by is saying the same thing. And defends Croatian national interests and leads the Croatian people into the fight for freedom and independence and was at the top of that fight when many hid in the corner and waited for some with a fig in their pocket, some without how to end the fight. And it was uncertain. And that's why I understand when MP Jarnjak is because I heard that replica to MP Stazic, when he handed over to the SDP which he left the assembly on June 25th 1991 when he voted on a crucial fateful decision on the future of this Croatian people to whom you are so much invited today. You left the assembly at the most dramatic moments in Croatia. Day two before the start of the aggression and you did not raise your hand for Croatia. And you're telling us today about the defence of national and state interests. You're telling us today about defending the national... Please, please, [[Applause.]] We'll take it, we'll take it, we'll take it, and we'll see. [[This is a lie.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13495	Please, peace, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13496	They're talking to us about defense.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13497	Gentlemen, if you don't, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13498	on the defence of national interests
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13499	If anyone doesn't like it, they'll be entitled to correction, replication and speech. Here you go. ... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13500	For the constitutional decision, for the constitutional decision on independence and sovereignty of Croatia you left the assembly and did not raise your hand then. To Croatia. No, I don't. No, no. We are talking about a constitutional decision on Croatia's independence and sovereignty. Further defence of national interests is the Racan-Drnovšek agreement on the Piran Bay where 80% of the Piran Bay of Slovenia is given, where a corridor is given that no one asks for an open sea exit. The defence of national interests is when MP Pusic, whose debate I also heard today, says national interests should be defended. Is the defence of national interests when accusing its own state of aggression against another state. That's what I've never heard in any Parliament before. That his own representative is accusing his own country. And then you read us a lesson about national and state interests. Then, we hear, then we hear from this side of the honourable representative of Stazic, asking nicely that I do not have the guts to come here and speak before the Parliament. And then we hear that the Croatian government is not taking care of national interests. Well, then we hear there's no reason for this. And that's all these MPs tell us that a few months ago when we made this decision were against that decision. The president of that party told me right here, maybe a foot away from this pay phone, so that's what Tomcic talked me into, we weren't into it at all. I quote a nice conversation with the president of the SDP. And he said mai is still and I know this why it makes Tomcic the elections are in a few months, but I didn't get to cut it off I couldn't resist it so here we go with them. He told me that again a day ago. Same thing. So now I can think twice, or then Racan thought or the president of the SDP thought he shouldn't do it, so he gave in to coalition pressures, or he thought he should do it, and then he found an excuse that it was the pressure of the coalition. Anyway, that's not what his words were supposed to be about. And I agree with him. Because for 10 years, ladies and gentlemen, this government here, or this party that led Croatia, could have done the same. But we estimate that when we did what the modern dictionary says is cost-benifit analysis, it's not good. The question arises why the HDZ government did not go to such a decision. We had 10 years at our disposal, we had all the arguments that you had seven, eight months ago, not six months ago, but when we discussed in September or in October it meant about 8.9 months ago. And we didn't go into it. But to go to that month and a half two months before the election, as the main electoral asset, and then to talk about defending the promotion of national and state interests. Now, that's something we've seen and how we've seen it, and what they've seen, and what they've seen, and what they've seen, and what they've seen, and what they've seen, and what they've seen. And that's why the voter's response on November 23rd was very clear not to the kind of policy that you've implemented and to which, with all your criticisms and debates today, you want this government to run, that's not how it's going to work. This government is not going to run the kind of policy you've run. Representative Leko says HDZ takes for granted, or this government, that on the basis of so many numbers or so many percentages you mentioned the percentage you do not know 25, % which is not true. Because with 25%, we wouldn't get 66 MPs. He has no right to decide. I mean, not to quote well because I don't have a look, but that was the point. You quoted the percentage that's true, I listened very carefully, you quoted the percentage of the electoral HDZ, and you said that we don't have the right to speak on behalf of everyone We have the right because it's democracy. The one who has one, yes, no matter what the number of citizens if the majority is realized, then it's democracy, Mr. Leco. We will not return to socialism where there was a party where there was no choice, where there was no multi-party, where there was no democracy where there was no freedom, where there was no Croatia. That's what we're not going back to. Whatever you want. The defence of national and state-owned interests is being addressed today by those who have brought the country to the brink of disaster in financial and economic terms. On January 3rd, we left the country with nine and a half billion foreign debt, and we took it with 24 billion, not four years after that. Responsibility for the country. The deficit you spoke of here yesterday and the day before yesterday is 5.9% according to your method. You assured us on both the promotion and the Croatian public both yourself and the IMF and everyone else that it is below 4.5%. So much for national security on national interests, on the state interests of promoting it. Which was filled with today's statements by the MPs from this old pay phone. So we're going to say what needs to be said here tonight. When it comes to deficits, we said the Emperor is naked and should say so. Needing how the financial situation is in the state. It would be nice if it were different to regret it isn't. It would be nice if it was better unfortunately not. But it would be sad if there wasn't a political force that didn't get in the way of the problem, and that's what got the country out of the crisis, it'd be sad, but it's got this power. And regardless of your criticism we will go that way and as we did in the 1990s and we have led the country and you into independence, it is known exactly where in independence, international recognition, that in international recognition 92 in defense of aggression. And if we're out of weapons of territorial defense. To victory in the Homeland War. In the Council of Europe 96. To liberating the country and rebuilding the country. We will also lead the country into the EU. And that's the whole reason for these pangs of yours today and for the blasphemous criticism of God's rhetorical attacks and for the defense of national interests, if you accuse her of the lack of this government. If anyone defends national interests, then the defense is the government. After the avis with which we have confessed to the former government, because we truly hold that they are and that the past government has been responsible for the avis, the SDP President has said that after this a new government assumes responsibility. I see two things in that. At first, we took responsibility after the voters said not after Racan said. And secondly, is that the reason for these attacks by the SDP of the day on the government? Because it wants to prevent Croatia's success on June 17th and 18th. So this government knows exactly what to do, yes. And the fact that some of you don't recognize us doesn't matter to us it's important for us to recognize the Croatian public, to recognize the Croatian voters. The popularity of the article that I am in charge of and which makes up the government's backbone of November 23rd based on the policy that we have adopted has grown today, and that today's elections would probably be somewhere around the absolute majority of MPs in the Parliament. And maybe some others might have increased. Turn it up. So much for national and state interests. So much for your criticism and so much for what the public thinks, all your misery and anger stemming from your criticisms from your debates is that there is a terrible proportion between your perception and your perception of the public. The public is looking at us quite differently than you are. The public looks at it by giving us a few jobs today or if you want five, six more than in the last election. So much for who's doing the job. And what the public thought of you, she told you on November 23rd. I understand that some ministers still can't or some members of the government still can't manage that they're no longer government but are opposition. I understand that, it's human. I understand even that some minister is signing borrowing decisions after the parliament has elected a new government here and is no longer a minister. It's that again, that we have decisions and we're going to give them to the state's attorney and we're going to determine that. That's what we'll determine. We understand therefore the anger, we understand the impotence of those who have lost the election, but we do not understand one thing, why you put it all above the interest of Croatia. Why it is more important to you to fight political rivals than what is today Croatia's interest. And now I'm coming up on the subject, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but I'll get back to you next time after this, we come up on the right subject, and that's why the government is proposing to apply the jurisdiction decision on October 3rd, the application of the decision, and it's proposing an exemption for a while until the fisheries partnership negotiations with the Member States of the European Union are completed. That's why for the same reasons that the then prime minister told me that this is not good what we're doing, but there's a coalition partner who made him do it, so he gave in. For the same reasons. And that is why we today who have responsibility for Croatia and I call you and regardless of the heavy words that fell today, to raise it, to... Yes, and what you thought you'd be left unresponsive to these... No, you asked me to come. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, you asked nicely for me to come. My intention was not to come. We were agreed that Vice President Hebrang defends this, but you asked Sanader to come and see Sanader here and now that he's telling you the truth in your face, then you're embarrassed. And now you'd be looking for Mrs. Representative throwing me out of the bench so it would be better if I taught someone here to talk like that and not to talk to me, and why you called me today. ... I see red, I have a lot more to say, so I'll pick up the next one. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13501	On behalf of the SDP club, respected representative Ivica Racan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13502	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I can't say Mr. Prime Minister because unfortunately I haven't seen him before, but Mr. President of the HDZ warm greetings. Unfortunately, you did not speak earlier as Prime Minister, at least not as the Prime Minister who came here six months or five months ago and said he would be the Prime Minister of all Croatian citizens. No, you were the president before, the dismembered president of the HDZ, and that's your right. ... Can I go on? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13503	I'd just like to make one thing clear. Please, I'm running a session. Please choose to set up your fellow Racan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13504	Thank you very much. So I'm sorry to say that here I haven't seen the President of the Croatian Government, unfortunately, and the least European politician tolerant, how quickly the mask fell. Well, that's the democratic right of each and every one of us and you, Mr. Sanader. What I want to say, however, before Mr. Sanader was to avoid now titled just in case, he came here, and I had another intention to come for this pay phone. I had an intention and I answered the word as you know, and if there were any justice from this pay phone, I would have gotten word from you before, but good. Take a face-to-face like that, you know, all the face-to-face. Okay. Anyway, if I had my word, I would have suggested something else. I would suggest we take a half-hour break, have club representatives meet and see what to do in the existing situation. I would suggest that before Mr. Sanader, I no longer suggest it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13505	Now please, just one moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13506	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13507	Wait a minute, one second. Just one moment. Gentlemen, let's make a deal, according to our Rules of Procedure, club presidents have the right to discuss when they speak on behalf of clubs, so as club presidents, they have the right and when they ask for a break explain the proposal for a break, explain the reasons why they were looking for a break on behalf of the club. They have a clear right unwritten to present certain proposals during the debate, so I would pray that, not to train myself to be strict on you, Mr Racan, but to explain briefly, you had a proposal that I know of, but please now that it would not be a precedent and a contrast and for everyone else outside of the Rules of Procedure that, please explain your proposals that you have on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13508	Now I have, so I said, I know where I'm going to continue, you won't confuse me. I said what I was thinking before Mr. Sanader, and now after Mr. Sanader, I certainly propose a half-hour break on behalf of the SDP club that we analyse this ingenious performance of Mr. Sanader, we take his stand with a silent application, that this speech be made public on television as a good example of the President of the Croatian Government. And one more thing, I would also suggest that perhaps after that break, the club presidents still find themselves in the light of the fact that we faced today during the whole debate and let me explain it because it is a constructive proposal. May I? For this fact, club representatives' meetings. May I?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13509	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13510	Okay. We have heard for two days that Croatia is in a relatively difficult situation, that there are some conditions that Croatia must meet if it wants to get an optimal decision on the European Council, related to the 17th of next month. That's what the media said and I'm calling now no longer for private conversation in four eyes with Mr. Sanader, we'll never speak without a witness in four eyes again, I'm telling you along the way, but I'm calling for a conversation with you and your associates...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13511	You'll be my witnesses.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13512	Where the situation was presented very dramaticly, very dramaticly. Where the talk was about the conditions set out in Croatia and the need for us to be responsible in this situation. Today, however, we also listened to the following arguments on behalf of the government. There's no problem, there's no serious situation, there's no pressure. There's a matter of tactics, some petty tactics, so that's why this tactics should give up the ecological fishing zone. Of course, if that's how we're being explained today, Mr. Sanader, then there's no reason for us to make any kind of compromise effort. That the point is to find a common solution and try to get our heads together. If that's how we were presented today. In that case, I also announce that we are withdrawing our amendment that has been in the effort, how in the serious situation to come, the amendment to the proposal for a decision, how to reach an optimal solution. Since there is no problem, as we have heard but a small bond and a smaller tactical game led by our Croatian government. We are giving up our amendment, but still, in any case, so that not only we, but also Croatian citizens, it would be good to hear really once more about the reasons for the withdrawal of this decision. If there are serious reasons on behalf of the SDP, we are prepared to consider them. And until then, I withdraw our amendment and remain on demand for this ingenious speech by Mr. Sanader, the SDP Club has been looking for a break for half an hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13513	Okay. Dear Representative Tomcic and Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13514	Mr. President, if you...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13515	We're working on the breaks right now, we're talking about requests for a break. I have five requests for corrections, I have requests for a break. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13516	If we did, that's exactly what I wanted to clear up. Whether the correction requirements already set will be realized later. I see now some little mess has been introduced into the sessions. What are we on now?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13517	It's not a mess at all, colleague Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13518	Yes, it is, of course it isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13519	It's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13520	I'm sorry, so I'll tell you what the problem is. SDP President Ivica Racan could not speak at all this way as he spoke, it is not according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13521	He could if he was allowed. You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13522	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13523	Yes, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13524	And then do we even need the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13525	Well, I should, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13526	No, no, no, this wasn't in the Rules of Procedure, so that's why I'm a little confused. I see there's been some kind of a mess.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13527	Okay, don't be confused.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13528	It's a mess running a session. Okay, if I'm going to get a later correction of the quote this opportunity would just want to take advantage of my enthusiasm that the Prime Minister Sanader finally showed up at the Parliament because I don't know why, suddenly, he's got his turn here. It was already all together on the edge of some kind of excess, some kind of inconclusiveness. Mr. Prime Minister, thank you for coming and bringing some order to this House. On behalf of the club, I'm also looking for an hour's break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13529	Honored representative Anto Djapic on behalf of the HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13530	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, it would really be good if after these statements on behalf of the clubs that we once again hear the true Prime Minister say the reasons why he once again asks for a delay in the application of the extension of the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea, so that we, too, after a half-hour break, will decide what to do with our amendment that we have made in the procedure. Therefore, I pray on behalf of the club also a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13531	When I sum up, we have a request from the SDP Club for a break, we have... Just please, please, from HSS... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13532	Mr. President, please excuse me, but first let's hear from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13533	You have a motion for a break after the Prime Minister brings it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13534	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13535	What does the presidents of SDP clubs say about that? Please, yes. First we're going to fix the corrections of incorrect allegations, and then we're going to do everything else. We'll figure it out, we'll figure it out. Who's up for a break? I beg you, colleagues, don't just wave your hand like a fast train. I have to notice that hand that's holding, which should have a certain tile or something. ... Comrade Chehok, here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13536	Mr. President, I do, we heard you were looking for witnesses. I have several witnesses that I raised my hand right after Mr. Racan. Here, how many are enough? I asked you nicely, I also asked for a word on behalf of the club before Mr. Tomcic and Mr. Djapic [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13537	My colleagues, please, you can't ask for club sessions like this. Well, that's what you're doing, for God's sake. Mr. Luka Baby, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13538	Well, I think it's reasonable and logical that after the Prime Minister arrived with members of the government here at the Parliament's session to take on the Prime Minister once again, because he had an intention so his time had run out, he addressed the Parliament and that the explanation we've been looking for all day. You didn't say anything else but when Sanader was coming. Here, now Sanader's here. And that's why I'm asking for half an hour after that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13539	Dear Representative Jozo Radoš on behalf of the Club Libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13540	Mr. President, the Prime Minister has actually directed this debate in a completely different direction...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13541	That's amazing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13542	... he spoke of a thousand other problems, including very difficult qualifications of one part of the representatives, i.e. the parties and I also ask a half-hour break for the club to be obvious about it. But equally, Mr. Prime Minister has not answered in one word the question that has been raised here several times, repeatedly today, what are the reasons for giving up the decision to apply the decision on the ecological belt? So I am also asking or asking, however you wish, for the Prime Minister to state the reasons. It can be done before or after the break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13543	Here you go, fellow Czecho.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13544	Mr. President, I'm glad I could convince you that I really raised my hand. And I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club. I think that too many difficult words fell for the first time in this Assembly's session were heard and inappropriate sexist remarks, several times. The passions were over, and I think it would be best if we called all day and called for the Prime Minister's speech to first address the Prime Minister, to take a break, and to agree with fellow Racan's proposal that all club presidents meet. Perhaps in your room with your intervention we should try to ensure that after the break, the debate is much more patient than this one before and try to agree on these amendments, the proposals that were referred to in the debate. Because we can argue, argue or insult when it comes to, I don't know, VAT or anything else, that's just about us. This is for our daily and internal political use, but this is about our relationship with the International Community and our external political legitimacy. It wouldn't be good to discuss it like this. I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13545	Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has an urgent and important international obligation and before this break is sought by club presidents, I suggest that the Prime Minister further explain the proposal for this decision. Please. I can do it because the Rules of Procedure allow it. I remind you that in a number of times and in the previous sessions of the Parliament when the breaks were sought previously, you have just received the word of Mr Racan to explain certain points of view. Which changes things if the Prime Minister who has, you know who he's meeting with, to excuse, let the introductory explanation of the proposal afterwards we'll take that break. Here you go. You'll also have on the corrections of incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13546	I answered for the word on behalf of the promoter at the beginning of your speech. But only after I answered. Yeah. No, he's right to report on behalf of the motionor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13547	Prime Minister, please feel free to speak. I don't have the right to allow these wonderful obstructions. You're welcome to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13548	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For the sake of truth, I would also like to say here for the record that at the beginning of Mr. Racan's presentation, I informed the president on behalf of the motion before you made a motion for a break. And I have, therefore, answered on behalf of the promoter. I just announced it at the end of my speech. I even announced it at the end of the speech, I said the time was up, and I'll get back to you. Hence, those who speak the truth can be seen in this example. I even announced it, and as soon as I sat there when Mr. Racan came out, I answered on behalf of the promoter. And that's why. What? ... Who have I offended? [[speaks out loud, doesn't understand]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13549	Gentlemen, I ask you if you will allow the Prime Minister to speak, then make it possible. They'll be correcting incorrect allegations. Well, you wanted to make contradictory suggestions. Now you want to take a break, so he can talk. You don't want that one before.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13550	First you wait all day and you talk and you call me when I get here, then you say she's taking a break she shouldn't. But I know parliamentary practice and parliament, because until yesterday, I was on benches like you, and this is exactly what I agree with the president's assessment from previous practice, we know that the former president of the Parliament, former Prime Minister Racan, has given word on behalf of the promoter whenever he asks. Why can't I have a right, too, if he gave me his word I'll continue. So this is how I want to respond first. So you can obstruct, but you won't be able to obstruct all day asking me to come and now you're not up for it. Oh, it ended a period of Communism when it couldn't be spoken. That's what you'd like. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[speaks out loud, doesn't understand]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13551	Gentlemen and ladies MPs, you can't interpret the Rules of Procedure in a way that's an obstruction that's trying to work here. To do at the same time are contradictory controversial suggestions, it's done at the same time and pause, and correcting incorrect allegations and speech by the prime minister, then when I say we go first to correct incorrect allegations, then we say no, we want the president of the club to say first, when I let him, then says I want a break, when I say here's the break, then they say no, here are the corrections of incorrect allegations, then the violation of the Rules of Procedure. We will not, gentlemen, I have no right to interpret the Rules of Procedure in this way, where there is a complete obstruction, and I will not allow it, because none of it is allowed by the President of the Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13552	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. So, first of all, I'm expressing my desire that this is the way the debate was held after my presentation, and I felt obliged to respond to these attacks that are today all day long from calling me out, why I didn't come here, that I was afraid of the MPs coming here and talking about it, that the government wasn't protecting and defending national interest. And when I've brought together this government and the former government or that government since before and after the other parties, that's what the scary speech says, and I won't call you prime minister anymore, you're no longer prime minister, you're Mr. Sanader. Well, that's the end of the time when we're going to listen to insults and meals, turn our heads or turn our other cheeks to get another slap on the other cheek, that movie went on in the '90s, at the HDZ's victory election in April and in the spring of '90s. So these gentlemen here who left the assembly simply don't know what democracy is. They just don't know what democracy is. And those of you who do the same, if we did it to you, then you would seek the protection of the President of the Parliament. I'm not going to ask for the protection of President of Parliament, I'm going to say what I have. Because I've been listening all day to meals, attacks, which are completely unfounded, which have nothing to do with the subject that's going on here. So, let's move on to the subject. We could've been without this. I believe that the Vice-President of the Government is quite precise, and we have agreed on how to explain the government's decision, i.e. a proposal for a decision to act on a fishing ecological zone. And I can only repeat without questioning what Vice President Hebrang said. It is that we are in an extremely sensitive situation in the historical situation when decisions are made for Croatia which are of historical importance. The decision on candidate status and on the date of the start of the negotiations expected on 17 or 18 June. The session will feature 25 EU member states. Each of these prime ministers must raise his hand for these two decisions, unless one raises his hand, unless there is a consensus of all 25, there is no decision. And since we have been warned as the former Government has been warned directly and personally by Commission President Roman Prodi, as I know from the information given to me by the former Prime Minister, that Croatia had the right to make this decision, but also that a mature country that wants to enter the European Union, not to question its right to take that decision at the same time, is consulting, talking, trying with neighbours with the European Union where it wants to enter, agree on the best timing and best way to make that decision, and that before that decision, it has remained in the former government and that it has remained a bone in the throat of those people, in that Union, with those members, with this association that we want to enter. This has been passed on to me and I have been told that there is a possibility that at this session because someone can question this topic and we know that, by international law, we have the right to it but we also know that, in accordance with good customs, we should have talked to our neighbours before and with the Union about it and the timing of not repeating my right again. The next scenario could have happened. That at this session, one of the 25 or more of them says there is one problem here because there is a de facto problem that has been debated for five months by the State Secretary of Croatia Italy and Slovenia. And when Vice President Hebrang said there's no pressure, there's no ultimatum, there's no ultimatum, then he was right, but there's a danger that someone doesn't raise a hand, that danger exists because we can't conduct all 25 members, we can, we can ask our friends to support it but we can't guarantee that it will. Therefore, there is a obligation for Croatia to negotiate full membership at the stage of its complaint on full membership, to negotiate full membership in the phase of the negotiations. It exists already in the decision in point 3 which is said, because you knew it, you knew it, and that's why you got that decision. Point 3. The decisions on judication, the expansion of judication, are precisely saying that a year of time is left for the government to negotiate with any neighbour and the Union. Since these negotiations have not been completed, it is logical to ask for the Union's exemption to be applied to during the negotiations until they are completed. So there's no giving up on the zone, the zone's starting to apply since October 3rd. No giving up on the zone, no delay in using the zone. There are delays to apply to these 25 until the conclusion of the negotiations. In a theoretical sense, hypothetical negotiations could be over by October 3rd, it will not be likely because it is summer. We don't know how long it's gonna take, it could take six months, maybe a year, but maybe I can do five, four. Therefore, as long as negotiations continue, until negotiations with the European Commission are completed, we propose an exemption from the 25th member states. And that's all we suggest, we haven't given up on the zone, it's starting to apply according to your decision point 3. The decisions in which it is said, you're giving a year's time for any negotiations. And that is nothing more than calling for that decision because to avoid and remove any doubt that anyone can veto Croatia's decisions. And that's the reason. And in that sense, I ask you once again that this decision, which we, when we already do, but no longer need to be party bickering, we did not vote for it, but as Prime Minister, I absolutely accept and the zone applies on October 3rd to all countries of the world, except for these until the end of the negotiations, it can be a few months after that, I cannot predict how negotiations will be going but I can end within a relatively fast time. And since then it has started to apply to countries 25. EU 25. And that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13553	We're going to do some correcting on incorrect allegations right now. I'm calling... No, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mrs. Vesna Pusic, who is here, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13554	Thank you. I do not know if this is now the correction of the incorrect allegations or the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but since the Rules of Procedure of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure has priority then I will merely state that Article 209 states that incorrect allegations will be given immediately after the speaker on whose claim is corrected has completed his presentation. Therefore, by no interpretation, but under Article 209 you, Mr. President, violated the Rules of Procedure, should have made it necessary for all those who reported for the correction of the incorrect quote immediately after the first presentation that Mr. Sanader had here to correct the incorrect allegations. According to that, I'm asking you to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13555	Thank you very much. My colleagues Pusić After the Prime Minister was given the floor as an authorised promoter, and when he spoke on behalf of the Government on this subject on his presentation, a 5 correction of incorrect allegations was recorded. [[/Intruder: What?]] The president of the SDP Club, Racan, answered, insisted and asked for a word and got the word. He's to me, he's signaled me... that he wants only to propose in this, as president of the club, that he just wants to propose that a group of club presidents or representatives of the clubs be carried out [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, let me, I know, he only told me that he was going to propose to meet club presidents for some common conclusions. [[But Mr. President, Mr. Racan is not taking Mr. Racan's session, but you.]] Instead, he gave a lecture here, instead he was talking here in the end about the amendment they submitted, withdrawing the amendment and eventually asking for a session, a break. And when I heard from him after that, they were looking for some other club presidents... And when I later asked if you would, before correcting the false allegations, yes, then those who sought the Club's meetings began protesting and looking not immediately, immediately for a session of the club, others asked first for the Prime Minister to go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So on such one procedure [[- Sir...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13556	Mr. President, you have every right to do so. I feel deeply for you. But in this particular case, it's not about legislators looking for things, having different wishes from the benches, so we have a Rules of Procedure. Therefore, without considering what anyone is looking for, the Rules of Procedure clearly say that corrections to the incorrect allegations are the first. I'm sorry they brought you into such a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13557	You see some MPs, you see some MPs hold that when requested, a session of the club, a break for a club session that should be interrupted at that point and given that session.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13558	No, but no matter what the MPs think, the Rules of Procedure say, and that is why I warn you, even though I know your situation is difficult, that you must give it to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13559	But the MPs didn't allow me to create such an atmosphere that didn't allow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13560	Imagine that citizens don't allow the state to enforce laws. That's about the same situation. Therefore, although I feel sorry for you, you have broken the Rules of Procedure which speaks very precisely and precisely and unequivocally to say so, regardless of what MPs want. And now, if I may, I'd like to move on to correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13561	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13562	Now, if you'll excuse me, this was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, an explanation of why I raised the record of my injuries to the Rules of Procedure. And now, if I may, I'd like to move on to the correction of the incorrect quote from the first part of Mr. Sanader's exposure. [[- Okay. - Okay.]] Mr. Sanader, who, among other things, said incorrectly that I am not defending Croatian interests exactly the other way around. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] In 1993, when I was among the few, a group of intellectuals who opposed HDZ's decision for which HDZ did not have the strength or to carry it through this Assembly, to send Croatian soldiers to war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or when we discussed it in this House, it was not, and today, of course, it is evident, that decision which did not go through the official authorities of the Croatian state but was a party decision that was then in power, was not in the interest of the Croatian state, and today it is obvious that this decision was not in the interest of the Croatian state as it is also today the decision on... /The speech was excluded/... reached, we are representatives here in the Croatian Parliament, in the Croatian state, the Croatian Parliament that cares for the interests of this country. Therefore, in this House we are making decisions that are... /The speech room has been excluded/...the interest of this country and any exclusion of microphones will not, dear colleagues and colleagues change it. And it is also not in the interest of this country today to suspend that level we have already achieved, and this is what Mr. Sanader said in his presentation nothing, not one reason but said only personal attacks and...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13563	Thank you very much, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13564	and their interpretations
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13565	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13566	about who you are
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13567	Please, time has already expired multiple times. Thank you very much, you will continue in the second part of the exhibition. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13568	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting the quote of the Prime Minister who said: “This party always says the same.” It is simply incorrect because it is evident that it does not always say the same. I won't explain until he's here and the Prime Minister. I'd give him that correction, not someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13569	Thank you. Honorable representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13570	Mr. President, it's really hard to correct incorrect allegations if the one who said them isn't there. And it was indeed necessary to ensure that the prime minister did not leave Parliament because we have waited for him for this long, long time. After all, we get the impression that he just showed up. That he really showed up, and I'm gonna think he's got three Sanaders. Here, here is the incorrect, incorrect assumption that the Croatian government was warned. We have been listening all day from Prime Minister Sanader's power of attorney, Mr Hebrang, that Croatia was neither warned nor under ultimatum, nor under pressure, but that it was only an active policy. We're really confused and the question is whether the power of attorney has realized what his power of attorney is, or now he needs to react in order to know what Mr. Sanader really means.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13571	And a respected representative from those present who signed up for Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13572	Well, you're just interesting that no, not by the fact that the Prime Minister came here was a request and an appeal to really respect the Rules of Procedure and Mr. President of the Parliament we really think you're in, in that obligation to do. After all, you run the Parliament and you got ours, you got our trust to do it but it wasn't like that. In his first presentation, Mr. Sanader missed the opportunity to say the subject he was invited here and for, which we are discussing rather than really having again been faced with a 30-minute speech that dealt with our close and distant past and which has again caused a whole series of completely unnecessary reactions. I think it's high time to talk in this House about the subject that we're discussing today, which we discussed on October 3rd where it was also and then very interesting in the second one of its presentations, Mr Sanader was actually repeating that the the thesis that we were then saying was how well I remember my colleague Cain and my littleness, but here after 8 months some things are still coming into place. I wish it was Poega's fault. It's a nice place to burn. and the road is quite long, but I would also say really, it would really be very good, very good if we had a debate here that's being conducted under full dignity and with the right topics, and not that this is actually the case with ideological discussions and ideological qualifications, now... [[- That's beautiful.]] We've been having fun all day, actually. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13573	Okay. And when it comes to the topic, the talk on the subject, within the topic, there are complaints about, that MPs in freedom of speech are suppressed, so that's it. It's 19 and 54 now. So that's eight. I'll see you here in 34 minutes. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please, let's end this day in the permissive atmosphere. I ask the presidents or representatives of the clubs the first club of the SDP who will be on behalf of the SDP club. Honorable representative, Mr. Ivica Racan, go ahead. My colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats, please make peace. Comrades and colleagues, please calm down in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13575	Mr. President, allow me, on behalf of the Croatian Social Democrats Club, to express in a few words the position of the SDP on what they have witnessed in the last hour and a half The word is, first of all, about Mr. Sanader's move to see the Croatian public along the way. So we will ask that those words of mine be similar to those available to the Croatian public. We are assessing Mr Sanader's statement with inappropriate and unworthy functions and responsibility of the Croatian Prime Minister in his likeness there were many things that could not be heard in this Croatian assembly. In this break we managed just in case the impression wouldn't cheat to look at the magnetogram. What can you do gentlemen and gentlemen of the Parliament and yourself? We witnessed the illegal conduct of insulting ideological qualifications representatives, instead of pjoreb, to clarify one decision and help Croatian Parliament's creditors decide and take their stand. We even witnessed Mr. Sanader's speech that occasionally brought down to the gossip level. I'm not gonna give him back a way to tell me what he told me about some of you and the docked ones here. That would be the level of gossip. Unfortunately, unproduced in civil, civilized communication between people who don't have to agree on much. Of course, such a speech by the president of the HDZ may not be possible for me to enter the HDZ, but it is not possible in front of the MPs of the parliament and the speech of the other parties. It is indeed the launch of Croatia in insulting political opponents, somewhere where we had to be witnesses in the 1990s. Unauthorized. This launch of the Croatian ladies and gentlemen was not expected in view of the promises of the HDZ. But that's your problem you'll have to answer the question whether you want it or not. What I'm trying to say is that I'm expressing on behalf of the SDP club a deep concern about this course of things. Deep concern. It's the last thing we needed in a situation where a good hard-working national job awaits us. And when we're here discussing trying to get a possible attitude, now I'm talking about a SDP club that would bring us together. It was abruptly interrupted by Mr. Sanader's extensive unauthorized behavior. After all, I cried out, so we deny the lie that we left the assembly and that we did not vote to separate Croatia from Yugoslavia. I could take the magnetogram now and show what else is a lie. After all, I happen to be on this page alone, so I'll say, "I'm quoting a lie." "We will not go back to socialism, where there was one party where there was no choice, where there was no multi-party, Ms. Enrique any democracy, where there was no freedom, where there was no Croatia to go back to, what you want." Not only is it a lie, such dirty planting is not allowed in communication between us, let alone by a man acting as president of the Croatian Government. Unauthorized. And let me just say this one more thing, we've been listening to arguments today why we need to change the decision we discussed. We didn't get the arguments that there were serious reasons, so I withdrew the amendment that was in that effort. And I am expressing loudly that we will vote against the proposal for this decision but we are ready if there are arguments that the Croatian situation is serious, that national interests are a threat to consider our decision. Which we haven't heard before. The truth of Mr. Sanader's diction was something else, but since so many irresponsible things were in his speech, I dare not call upon his diction in this regard. So, if we get the arguments, that the situation for Croatia is serious, we still respect national interests, we have proved in the last four years, we will consider our position. And until then, I withdrew our amendment and announced that hunger itself against. And I insist on the HDC Club for us to get his stance on what he thinks of his president's stand for HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13576	My colleagues and colleagues, please let's not sharpen the situation again. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the honourable representative of Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13577	I'm correcting Mr. Rachan's incorrect claim in one thing only. That is when he said it is not true that we did not vote on the separation of Croatia 25.6.91. There were two documents, a resolution on the indifference that SDP voted for, and a constitutional decision when he left the assembly. And that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13578	Injury Businessman, respected representative Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13579	Mr President, Article 214 in which it appears, inter alia, gives the MP a warning if he demeans and insults the president and other MPs. Dear Mr. President, I quote. In 30.6.1991, the Assembly discussed among other things the proposal for a constitutional decision on the deleveraging of the Republic of Croatia of the SFRY, which was submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, where it is said in the first point, quote: The Republic of Croatia is declared an independent and sovereign state. The Council of the Republic of Croatia shall, by this decision, initiate the process of deleveraging the Republic of Croatia from the rest of the Republic of Croatia to the point 15 of its entry into force. We voted in favour of our decision, HDZ voted in favour of its decision, and we did not leave the session, and the fact is that we also have to say that part, and that part just to say, that in our address on behalf of the club we said if our decision did not pass, we would support the decision prepared by the HDZ Club. Look at the phonogram.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13580	I've been an eyewitness and I've written these constitutional decisions and I know very well, but now opening a historical clock here would be really pointless. As who votes and I know these 15 points, I also know the point in your proposal that, at the same time as the process of unification, the Republic of Croatia is initiating a merger procedure in the union of sovereign states of the former SFRY. But let's leave it alone, we won't get far. No, this is not the time or place to discuss it right now. Let's move on. A colleague, Vujic, was on May 30th 90th.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13581	Mr. President, you're allowing yourself a lesson... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13582	No, I can't let you because you can't get the word. I didn't open anything. On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13583	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. Today, on 3 June 2004, in a debate on a very important topic that has all the characteristics of serious political issues both on the external and on the internal agenda and on the topic which has serious political implications for the common society. Unfortunately, behaviour is also a responsibility at the level at which it was last October 3rd. This House, this Parliament, this and every other government and all of us together must still have a different sense of responsibility when it comes to serious political issues. To avoid confusion, I may say something very clear on behalf of the HSS Club which has not been said so far. And on 3 October last year, the HSS advocated a declaration exclusively of the economic belt. Of course, we respected and respected all the respectability of relations in the international community, and we felt that our minimum was an ecological fishing zone, and that it was also the maximum that we could get in those circumstances and in those concepts at that time without disrupting the relations that were then built in establishing Croatia's entry into Euro-Atlantic associations. If that were the case and such an act could not be called anything as it was trying to impute here today, it is obviously nothing, because that nothing would have been discussed today, and it seems to me that Prime Minister Sanader was also very clear in determining that it is important. He said something more clearly about conditionality, possibilities and what could happen if it did. It is therefore very clear that the ecological fishing zone represents one correction, but in the decision itself, it is further stated that Croatia reserves the right to declare an exclusive economic belt at any time when it is assessed and the circumstances are created. I think that's what we have to agree on, and we all have to agree. But I would like to say about one thing that has not been discussed so far, which is the measure of things that makes it important for the ecological fishing zone to come to life, and precisely for the reason that the ecological fishing belt is completely exhausted. There's no more fish out there. The intense extermination led to the threat of the belt. This is why the HSS has offered an amendment to ban all types of fish fishing for a year, but at that time other aspects of environmental surveillance, control and security and monitoring and evaluation would be applied, as well as the construction of a temporary agreement which would then determine relations between Croatia and other countries above all Italy and Slovenia. Such an amendment would reconcile all those who, at this point, are trying to deny on one hand the results and the factual state of the ecological fishing band as well as those that are being imposed on another subject, while forgetting the seriousness of the policy they still need to have here. Such a decision would be on the trail and interest not only of fishermen but also of those who hold Croatia as a maritime land, and the maritime country must show its sovereignty, its responsibility and its care for the citizens above all Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13584	Thank you very much, fellow Markov. On behalf of the HSP club, a respected representative, club president Ante Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13585	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian party club, the rights can show regret that this important debate and the important topic went in the direction in which it went. We were hoping and in such a tone we also intonated our debate on behalf of the club, the opening debate, as the possibility of opening and discussing the modalities and ways of meeting the conditions of the Republic of Croatia in order to European integration as a debate on all those obstacles I would also say the traps that Croatia is awaiting in this direction. However, we have witnessed that instead of using this as an opportunity for an open debate on these modes and on concepts, we have ended up in a very difficult atmosphere, I would say even at some point in our lives, even to the lowest ideological debates, transferring what is certainly proof of something, which is certainly not good for all of us, our parties here in Parliament or for the Croatian public. As a party that we wish to have correct relations with all parliamentary parties, we regret that it was so and we will refrain from any debate that could hurt any party or any individual. The second thing we wanted to point out is that we asked that when the Prime Minister appeared decided and made clear whether there are any reasons, the real reasons for the proposal for this decision, which is postponed for at least members of the European Union, the decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea. The prime minister confirmed our information and our findings that we have made here in the opening statement, although it is quite unequivocal that this proposal from the Government is nevertheless the result of certain requests from individual members of the European Union, not to mention the ultimatum. And then we parted after the Prime Minister and confirmed it, of course, we differ as a party with the concept the government reached. We regret that we cannot support the Croatian government at this time because we both supported the past government and this government whenever possible and when it did not oppose our at least fundamental ones, those some programming definitions regarding European integration as much as we could and we supported this government in that. However, here is a conflict of concepts because we hold that after such a real threat and, I would say, the ultimatum of individual members, we remain as a party firmly in our verticals regarding the economic belt which is here today several times and named and apostrophe by several MPs. We remain in the exclusive economic belt, and in this direction we have given our amendment because we believe that only such an answer is the right answer to attempts to challenge Croatia's sovereign right and the law arising from international conventions and our positive legislation. Therefore, we will remain in the Croatian Parliament until the end, we will vote against a delay in the application of the ecological zone, and we also have our proposal for conclusions which I hope will be supported by those representatives who have said today that only the economic belt was declared then there would be no such problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13586	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected Vice-President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13587	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I think that after this break and after these presentations of the club representatives, the time has come for us to examine again all these reasons presented by the Prime Minister, which is why we are asking for a postponement of this decision, the application of this decision. That it is reasoned, justified, and I hope that we will vote in such a decision. I would like to remind you that when it was voted last 3.10 last year on whether an economic belt would be declared, and that was the first point that we had to define ourselves by calling the MPs, that 48 MPs were in favour, 51 against and 19 abstentions. Which means that the proposal was rejected with a difference of 3 and 4 votes, respectively. Afterwards, the debate continued and eventually voted on the proposal I think presented by counterpart Luka Trconic on the declaration of the fishing zone, i.e. the ecological zone. That kind of thing, I remind myself, is that we remember and that, in fact, we see in some way how it was and how it might also be today. That the proposal was accepted by 70 votes in favour and 44 votes against. This second proposal. I hope that these bile and bile so for moments and offensive debates we will prevail as we have prevailed in our practice in these 15 years many times similar situations we have had. I want to believe in our best wishes to do so tonight and I have no doubt that colleagues from other parties are also thinking alike. So, in conclusion, I think the time is short. It is all 15 days from what we expect and that with seriousness and responsibility we vote for any reason, cause, and not the reason for any opposition from one, two or three countries, or perhaps none, but whether we will at such a risk to show that we are willing to negotiate because it is for us to negotiate when we are candidates with a certain starting date, we will renegotiate both this fishing zone and the Adriatic fisheries regime, as well as other issues that we will have to talk about as candidates and so on. Why not open now before we make a decision on what we will and so on with greater or less success, I hope with great success to negotiate by protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia in negotiations with the European Union. I wish and call on the representatives of the Croatian Parliament to accept this decision, the motion for a decision made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13588	On behalf of the Club LIBRE, Honorable Representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13589	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I would still give a few reviews of the Prime Minister's actions and ways because it was also a request for why we asked for a break. We were not productive in this debate today, but we did not go beyond the 10th month of last year. There was no analysis of anyone's actions, democratic evaluations, the grades of patriotism, etc., went beyond October of last year. The Prime Minister went to war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, left at the time of the independence of the Republic of Croatia, and then left even during the communist era. And when you leave like that, there's no way anything good can happen. This is a democratic country, this is a democratic parliament, and if you accuse someone of not being a good Croat, there's a counter-indiction going on, and whenever that kind of speech comes and comes from the Prime Minister, it's going to go bad. That can't be good, and that's what I last said, talking about the Prime Minister's move that he spoke very openly to a club of very harsh words. And that in the Croatian Parliament just won't work. It is to the detriment of communication in this House, it is to the detriment of the atmosphere in the country, and it is I am convinced of the damage of both the ruling party and the Prime Minister, and of course it is up to you to evaluate it yourself and to accept it or not to accept it. Another thing that is very important cannot be found in this House without arguments. If it comes without arguments, if it is said to be a political stance, and it is not known what is the point of that attitude, which is its content, and today it has been tried by the government via the Deputy Prime Minister of Mr. Hebrang, then the debate will again take place on a naked policy, and we will again, most often, end up in charges and counter-indictions. And it can't just be like that. This is a democratic parliament. If his bodies are suspended in their content work, and today this is the case, unless the representatives receive adequate information on why a decision is made, which is left over to us at a political level which, unfortunately, cannot be different than the speech about what it was, which is of course not a productive position for the Parliament, for no political party in this House, and of course is not a productive position for the Republic of Croatia. And what do you do now in this situation? I would say only if it wasn't true what the Prime Minister said, that the Deputy Prime Minister gave a very precise explanation of the reasons. He listed some other things that are relevant, and that is not enough in my opinion, but it is very relevant when it is said that we have been warned and that there was a possibility, or there is a possibility that we will not, that we will not get a positive vote from all 25 countries. Well, that's first-class pressure, which is of first-class importance. And the Deputy Prime Minister wasn't talking about it, he was arguing all the time. And now what can we do? Of course, I'm staying at the base post. But I'm going to try to repeat one short way out of all of this. The last sentence of the Prime Minister was next. Once the negotiations are completed, the decision will apply to the 25th. This means that the decision to declare a fishing ecological zone is only delayed until the conclusion of the negotiations without the risk of any kind of change. That is exactly the content of the SDP amendment. Exactly what the Prime Minister said. If it is accepted, if this fear is removed, then I see no reason why, of course, I can only speak on behalf of the Club of Libre not to vote for such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13590	Thank you very much. And we still have only one club that asked for a break, HSLS, DC. Dear colleague Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13591	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We did well to suggest a break, all of us looking for it is obviously that passions have fallen a little bit, perhaps because of fatigue. Unfortunately, today we have discussed how we should not debate, especially when it comes to issues like this, simply because it is possible to say that it is natural to discuss and break a political spear over internal political issues. The parties exist to agree their opinions or to disagree in the end, to try to impose and promote their political interests. However, when it comes to Croatia's relationship with the European Union, when it comes to Croatia's relationship with its neighbours, I think it is quite pointless to discuss it in such a way that we return to old ideological ambushes, and remind ourselves of 10 years back, who told or who decided in some moments of Croatian history, we simply believe that we are dealing with too much past, and quite certainly the issue of integration and dynamics, Croatia's integration into the European Union is not a question of the past. From the past, we could only learn how similar integrations in these areas of Croatia stood dearly. Maybe we could learn that. But this is a lesson that is sometimes bitter and that should not be further sweetened by any ideological shocks or ideological references, we simply will not be one step closer to Croatian integration into European spaces. I repeat once again that we are against the Law with delayed application, because such laws actually show either that we should not have adopted them or that simply Croatian society is not ready to release such laws, so that such laws become something that can regulate the practice of Croatian citizens. But since the former government has calculated this delay, it is only natural for this government to do so, not for all countries, but for these two countries that are our immediate neighbours. So let's focus on it. Let us all try together here in the Parliament may also make a decision to oblige the Government to access bilateral or trilateral agreements with Slovenia and Croatia as much as possible. But something else that no one has spoken of today, let's make a commitment to the government to finally rebuild the fishing fleet. That our fishermen can even catch the fish that exists in us. Because our fishing fleet isn't able to catch a fish that's in our territorial sea, so that's off the coast of Istria. It also seems to me to be a logical proposal for colleagues from HSS to perhaps consider, as the first proposal on this trilateral agreement between Italy, Slovenia, and that it might also be a proposal for this visa home to actually do scientific research, to determine the state of maricology, and then perhaps the first proposal to be to catch on that part must stop until we see the percentages of this scientific or any other research. If that is the conclusion of the Parliament, I believe that the government will also be easier and that it will strengthen the government's position in trilateral agreement. But certainly what I would like to say in the end, if we are already talking about protected belts today, then I would like to appeal to all of you that Parliament becomes a protected belt, namely, in that sense we really protect it from mutual insults, ideological disqualifications. First we declare the Assembly a protected belt against such political, passionate, acute disqualifications.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13592	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ruža Romasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13593	Mr. President, I just wanted to correct Mr. Chehok. Because I think he insulted our fishermen when he said they weren't able to catch fish in our sea. I mean, I'm correcting the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13594	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13595	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I don't actually intend to fix anything, but I'd like to since I don't have any other way, because they've put me in charge of my duties... stopped me from being in the gym when most of the MPs were here. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like to say that this is a situation where the SDSS Club can't participate in the overvote. and therefore, for the simple reason, that representatives and representatives of the Serbian community are certainly not those who want more if they do not want Croatia to get a positive opinion and date of negotiations from the MPs, that I do not list parties on the other hand. But that's why I suggest that what I think is realistically possible and what seemed to be this morning, that is, during the afternoon and now possible, is that this important thing is being reached with maximum agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13596	We're going to continue the debate. There's still 15 MPs and two clubs in five minutes. It's pretty late. I appeal to MPs to be shorter, if possible, but it's only an appeal, depending clearly on good will. The Honorable representative of Slaven Letica has been waiting very, very long. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13597	Dear President Shakespeare, colleague Hebrang. There's one thing I'm threatening, and that's pathetic. For the first time today, however, I regretted running for this tall home. This morning when I came to the HSP Club, although I was forbidden to say it, my colleague Tonci Tadic cried about the economic belt. He's like out of the hills and I apologize to him for saying it out loud. And in the afternoon when I listened to these arguments for which there was no need. And now I'm going to say something about metaphors first. Three animals are mentioned here and all three are land animals. So first it's a quarry, and then it's kind of a weird beak and a fox dog like a domestic animal. It is not by chance when we are discussing, when we are discussing the gentleman's belt that people are using continental metaphors because Croats have fear of the sea. If you look at a maniristic picture, the arrival of Croats to the sea, on horses, in furs, barely washed they are afraid and surprised at the sea. And that's what's left to this day. I'd take advantage of another metaphor, and it's a sniveling fish. The sniveling fish used to be some kind of moby dick for me when I was a kid. In fact, there was a legend that there were giant silts moving in the bulwarks that moved up to a size of 30, 40, even 50 kg. And the others were able to catch at least a 10, 15-pound, I didn't catch any of them. However, I found comfort two years ago on Lastovo where I found a member of the SDP named Marin Jancic, he is an Australian Croat who returned to Lastovo, built his own boat and fished rags on large, living squid. And the pouring is a good mefafor for political change because it is changing too, that Luka Bebic knows her color given the changed political opportunities. What's important to the kire, that kirnja, that man knows the habitat of every kirnja, knows every underground cave that's been living on, and he doesn't know most of it has to be about 1 year for a kilo. So a 40-year-old kid, 40-pound, 40-year-old. And there's our national drama. It has already been said that the Adriatic Sea is a broken sea. How much you're hunting. The Croats in the sea hunt about 20 million pounds of fish. 20 million pounds of fish is worth around 40 million euros. Italians hunt 20 million, kilos of fish. In their value, it's a billion euros a year. If this negotiation lasts 5 years, it is 5 billion euros, it is more than all pre-accession cohesion and accession funds of the European Union. And that's why it's not a banal thing. When it comes to Sanader himself, I am a man of the sea and I understand deeply his frustration. The old Jew said, "I hope he didn't have one.", it breaks his back and his government. It's not easy to come here today and say I'm going to step away from what I deeply believe in. And there is great frustration because in life and politics and statehood there is a time of triumph of happiness and a time of deep anxiety and fear. I've spoken to my colleagues from HDZ. On them is the responsibility, the responsibility is formally in the government when it comes to voting and we will insist on individual voting, each of them will be tested for conscience. And in that sense, when it comes to the ecological and fishing zone today, or the economic belt alone, I knew and I didn't want to talk, so I am glad that the prime minister has confirmed that there are alleged pressures from the European Union. What's a tragedy in these pressures is that we don't have any papers, they're phone approaches. People accuse these Italians, Slovenians, which is logic. The Italians stopped even when the former Yugoslavia joined the Convention on the Law of the Sea in 1982, and then there were going because the Croats were dominated there to think exclusively about the economic belt at the time. So it was delayed, now it's declared. I said those are tangible reasons. So we have to say very responsibly and see what demaj and benefi are like from what we can decide, because this is not the last blackmail and in this sense I think Croatian negotiators have one great responsibility and negotiate means negotiate in the way the late President Tudjman negotiated. Sometimes stubborn, sometimes impertinent, but in any case not as it usually happens to be going around Europe and saying "I love the hands of the merciful," sitting on the edge of the table, holding the starch in my hand, then coming here and being offended, I don't know the other parties and individuals, it won't be allowed. And I, please colleagues, so that we understand the government's problems, that we understand HDZ's problems, especially those of the HDZ who are from Dalmatia, especially those from the island, who were the only ones who did not come to the sea and Croats among whom were my Hebrang ancestors and who were in some way afraid of the sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13598	Thank you. Honorable representative of Neven Mimica. Thank you. Honorable representative of Vice Vukov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13599	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. After all of our discussions today and after these unpleasant situations here, I find and see that many agree with me that they were, that these situations were really unpleasant, a man wonders whether to participate in this debate at all, and whether it is possible to contribute to that debate at all. And yet, I will say what I intend to say. When this happens to us today that within just 2, 3 days we are discussing very important issues such as VAT, eco-fishing belts and when conclusions are made on these same topics that, which are, we must admit, regardless of the logical neckline of the promoters who are trying to suggest and that nothing is happening here in particular. So, we're making conclusions that are contrary to the adopted and presented views barely a few months ago, then it's really not possible to argue that in fact the main concern that's emerging, the main problem that's being outlined from all of this should actually be the question of the credibility of the policy that's being led at this point. Or perhaps I should be allowed to say the Parliament, given some situations, may also consider my own credibility. I find that nothing is as important as being on time to make at least letemic recapitulations of some events. Although I certainly don't belong to those who think I should deal with the past but I also know as well as you do if we neglect the past and if we're not always in some kind of psychological contact then we can be paraphrased by the great English historian Arnold... who said that a country that doesn't learn lessons from the mistakes of the past was doomed to repeat them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore necessary to learn from time to time some lessons from experience, for someone has well said that a young man can, for example, learn a lot quickly and talent quickly, but the only thing he cannot do in a hurry is to have experience. So experience is very important to us. All that's happening to us, I think the consequence in us is the over-rooted practice of warming up our hard-core delusions, and in order to get a couple of times and cheap political points. In terms of what I said earlier, I remember how last year our unwavering defenders of national interests were also joined by experts, prominent lawyers and professors who claimed that both in the European Union, regardless of the degree of integration of its members, still prevailed over the criteria of national egoism, which should be a sign to all and a warning that it must not give way to our neighbours because what is ours is ours. And there's no discussion about it. International law, we've heard it a hundred times and heard it and read it, is on our side. It gives us the opportunity to simply and without any agreement to do with anyone as we please and so forth. It would implore this attachment to legal norms if it were not only a legal mask for the lack of political wisdom in my court, because in us it is too often political insolence that requires its support and justification in respect of the law, and the hour in disowning it. It's a moment if it's necessary. So, last year, apparently, the only kind of politician was alively supported by experts who were persistent in the claim that international legal conventions leave us free of any discussion, without any negotiations, to declare an economic belt. But I have to say, I find that such an inflexible political attitude actually remains insolent even when it is legally founded. I find that international law standards appear, appear only as a welcome alibi. I am convinced, however, that only political wisdom can give some final and beneficial meaning to respecting international rights. The issue of the economic belt namely some with politicians too hastily placed in public circulation, and for the purpose of pre-election promotion of course. So at the time, there was a huge damage, namely that one crucial issue for Croatia had been put in the context of direct short-term political goals which, of course, did not help the whole thing. And experts, in particular, resented them at the time, gave a crucial, perhaps inadmissible, but for me, I acknowledge the unexpected contribution to the warming of the spirit of politics. This is how experts achieved what politicians never go after because they all believe, and politicians a little when, and it has managed to convince our public that perhaps for the first time in the short history of our sovereign community it is perfectly legal to be exclusive because the economic belt is whether, God blessed it, it has the very attribute that I certainly sound like the most beautiful music to some people. Turn off the economic belt. It is logical, but it was, of course, awkward to think that today's suffering has created such a European community in the ruins of defeated European nationalism. If we were to bear in mind, then, that World War II was actually a defeat of all European nationalisms, and not only German, and that the average European was just swallowing and digesting with difficulties and completely without a misleading remnant, all his defeat could be able to give up even his national traits today like... For example, national currency. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, if we were to bear that in mind, then we could understand the true nature of the recommendations last year to the European Commission and to keep the European Union in this matter. We are mistaken, however, if we think that today's discounts towards the European Union will be more accurate in Slovenia and Italy, it will provide us with some special respect because everything is a "timemingue". What this year was a sign of weakness last year could have been a sign of a political co-operation and a sign of political maturity. It is also a well-known diplomatic whether the formula is after an unfulfilled threat. The position of one who threatens is weaker than before. Today, when there is no former ruling coalition that particularly the SDP had to save at any cost can be said and I am taking that freedom to say to myself that all of this, this is all that I said less, in the SDP they were all aware of. So Prime Minister Ivica Racan's abstention in this matter was known to the public, and today it has proved to be the right one. Why don't you just say they don't answer like they do... These state-owned experts report when it is obvious that the European Union assumes international law provisions to negotiate between stakeholders. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the negotiation between stakeholders clearly assumes the provisions of international law. It's a moment and I don't agree with Mr. Jarnjak too much or with the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13600	Comrade Vice Vukov, I know this is your first performance, but it's already gone too long.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13601	And I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13602	So be kind.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13603	Here's what I'm gonna say. That maybe Hansel Racan made a political mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13604	It's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13605	But there are experts who can't help us. We will have to, in fact, write once, wait for a long time to know whether it was a mistake or perhaps political wisdom. We haven't waited long to get rid of that enigma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13606	Dear Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13607	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Is this what we've been discussing all day to delay the application of this decision on the eco-fishing zone or not? And like last year, when we discussed it but just as much as in 2001 when the first debate was held on the HSP initiative is always dramatic, there is always some kind of threat to international, some fear of consequences, always some concern in the game, but it is my people always like that when it comes to the sovereignty of a country. In, if the country does not show determination in defending its sovereign rights, if it does not show determination in the application of conventions and international law institutes, then each time it becomes more difficult to do so when it tries to exercise its other right. That's all it's about. Notoral is the fact that the Adriatic is in. You need to ask any fisherman that, and they'll tell you that clearly. Notorna is a fact of how much wealth is hidden in the Adriatic and of which it is important for Croatia. It is crystal clear what can happen if Croatia does not have complete control of the Adriatic navigation in the event of intensive tanker traffic. ALL of these are things that we have done since 2001, far from the election away from the pre-election promotion to the address of the synikats of fishermen and in the help of top experts on the international law of the Croatian sea, who have found from HSP to offer a meeting of the preliminary decision on the declared master belt. Several years later, a decision to declare a protected ecological fishing zone was adopted here on October 3rd. We are b or happy we wanted the es to go on a full economic belt, but when it had already declared an ecological fishing zone, we were tired of spending it until the last point. And it is one time because everything else for Croatia and its reputation in international opportunities would be very bad for us to turn out to be a non-serious and inconclusive international partner. Therefore, in our court, Croatia must persist in the implementation of the declared ecological fishing zone, because the postponement of the application would mean simply the capitulation of Croatia prior to the arrival of Italy and Slovenia. We would therefore make this decision in order to protect the interests of Italian fishermen from the protection of the interests of Italy and Slovenia A not for the sake of Croatian interests. We need to be completely open to strip the cards all the way, and tell us what it's really about. It has been a year, and we expected that in terms of effective implementation of this decision since 3 October, in the Parliament of the An Clubs, we would receive a Coast Guard Act, that we would hear a report in the Assembly on the setting of radars for the supervision of the lord's belts on our outstretched islands. We expected to get regulation in Parliament on the ecological protection of the Adriatic Sea with regard to the safety of sailing on the Adriatic. We expected the Assembly to support in the budget the special means of measuring the fish fund in the Adriatic. Because these are all the things that countries are seriously thinking about implementing their economic belts or fishing zones are all the things that all the countries have done so far. And that's what made 125 countries in the world. This was done by all the countries of the Caribbean, by all the Black Sea countries, by many countries in Europe. And we didn't ask for anything special here, we just asked Croatia to fulfil its international law given to it by the Convention on the Law of the Sea, to act as a sovereign country according to the Charter of the United Nations. And take responsibility for controlling his half of the Adriatic, simply for his own future. Given the condition in which the Adriatic and the obsioorm may threaten the transport of harmful substances by the Adriatic. So things were completely clear here. And that's why it's unclear why all this time on the one hand we haven't gotten any info and no moves from the government to realize it. Why all this time there's no movement in creating a coast guard in defining our moves on the moor. But now here's when we expected to experience a little more application of the ecological fishing zone, we have this initiative from the government to actually delay it. It should be crystal clear in one thing, if the ecological fishing zone is treated as an economic belt if it has elements of the economic belt then it cannot be questioned at all. Never negotiate with neighbors about the meaning of its existence. Negotiations are being held with neighbours only on how to implement Article 62 of the Convention on the Law of the Sea. and this means how to leave it in agreement with good compensation to neighbouring countries to take advantage of a possible repeat, possible surplus of fish stocks. It is about the most ordinary fishing concessions and the heavy charge. My friend Letica was talking about the amount of influences. We can go through a whole other math, but we're going to get big numbers again. The fish value in the Adriatic was already said by the president of the Club, Mr. Djapic, quoting the Italian+g sub-secretary for fishing, who ultimatically told Croatia that they would never agree to be excluded from the waters where they were always fishing, because 800 Italian fishermen today exist on fish fishing in that part of the Adriatic where Croatia declared its ecological fishing zone. 800 fish times a day for a minimum of 1000 euros, with 200 fishing days a year, a minimum of 160m euros is the value of fish. And that's the minimum of judgments and the Italians are completely out of the blue. I'd be surprised if they didn't object. But it's equally interesting why Slovenia is rebelling. Slovenia does not object to the fact that it has a large fishing fleet, with 39 registered fishermen. They rebel because they want this economic belt to give this ecological fishing zone no longer prejudges the sea borders. They want the creation of special circumstances in the northern Adriatic. That's why they're talking about tripartite negotiations, so they're talking about a condom in the northern Adriatic, and they're only saying that because they want to get their hands on the groundwater beds in the northern Adriatic. That's the point of the whole story. What kind of economic belts, they are interested only in gas Al, I repeat the interests of Italy and these are the interests of Slovenia. That doesn't have to concern us, we deal with Croatia's interests. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Prime Minister and Prime Ministers and representatives of both the government and the prime minister highlighted various demands from the European Union. First of all, the Union's recommendation that the implementation of the belt be consistent with the neighbours. It will be harmonised if we apply Article 62 and grant them concessions in our fishing band. There has been talk of a declaration from Venice, a declaration from Venice in point 10. It is said that any declaration of ecological fishing zones or economic zones before that conference is acceptable, this was the conference. And finally Croatia's entry into the Union's common fisheries policy. Sure, but we'll get into it sooner, the sooner we become a member of the Union if we have an economic belt if we have a declared and implemented ecological fishing zone. Because in that case, they'll be interesting to our neighbors to participate in the division of that fishing fund. And finally a few more words about timing. It's always about timing, how long the negotiations will take. I really can't tell you how many people have called me in these 24 hours. from fishermen, from fish trade unions, the cavities of fishermen, the directs of fish processing companies, the expert on international law, finally addressed me and Mr. Vidas of the Norwegian member of the famous Dansen institution, whom I consulted about how long negotiations of this type usually take. Croatia's negotiations with the Union model last only 6 to 12 months can end a year two before the signing of any speech. And it's possible for a longer break, for example, in the Norwegian case, it's been three years. And all this time, Croatian fishing would already have suffered great damage. It would take more than 3 to 6 months to specify the contract, and then it would only go to concrete annual fishing concessions for each of the Member States. That means that by the age of five, by six, we'd be stuck with all of this together and suffering a lot of damage. So we think this whole delay story is completely unnecessary. We believe that the decision needs to be implemented, and that negotiations with the European Union and with all other neighbouring state alliances are being negotiated in terms of the implementation of Article 62. Convention on the Law of the Sea, i.e. on the award of potential fishing concessions in our economic zone, i.e. the ecological fishing zone, and after we carry out measurements to see if this surplus has any relation to the possibilities of our fleet. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, all of you who spoke about the economic belt today to make a better solution, please support the HSP amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13608	I thank Mr. Representative Tadic. Now Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13609	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Hebrang, dear colleagues and colleagues, if nothing else then, yet after this break, there was a certain silence and there was a certain appeal for moderation, they gave birth, though I fear they had arrived too late and things could have been resolved in a more constructive way wherever and wherever they were before. I didn't want to answer, replicate to the Honorable fellow Letica, but I must say when I say that I have no fear of the sea even though I am the one to express the continental and it would not be good to introduce another division between us on those Mediterranean and continentals, but since this is... the urgency then I really skipped it, but I just really think it is very important and to note that national interests should be equally defended regardless of what part of Croatia we come from. Since each of us somehow determines his interest when he is not a politician, so I am determined by the fact that I am a theory of literature and I have the impression that today we have experienced what is called two climatics in theory, but it happens in bad branches. It can happen in... It fits, but today was a bad drama because we were all expecting Godo, or our prime minister, so when the prime minister came he actually gave one completely different intonation of what was going on here and it proved that we were really unable to talk about the measure of things but then we were where and where more prone to know which times... [[You don't understand.]] all those ideological differences that we share, which are in fact citizens of this country in no way interested in, or we are dealing with topics that have long been absorbed and that we can no longer set otherwise. [[You don't understand.]] But since these two air-conditioned, unfortunately there was no catharsis and I'm afraid again that there will be no catharsis, because almost some of them have been here reading their talks since October 3rd last year. I could do that, too, but I don't think that would lead to the result again, because it turns out that the debate at the time as well as a large part of our discussions that they are hasty, that there is actually not enough preparation, and that most often the applicants, especially when the government is actually asking for some things, that we MPs accept Bianca or because the situation is such, that certain forces in international politics are as they are, and precisely because we would protect our national interests then we should make such a decision. This is often not sufficiently reasoned and I fear that we are actually facing this today with a similar situation so that we should all actually believe in the word that the situation is very difficult, uncertain and that then again this one political concession must be done and it has been repeated here again that we are not able to combine one approach that will protect our national natural wealth and, on the other hand, that we are too fixated on the fact that we should enter the European Union as soon as possible. I always think every time we fix that it's not good. It is not always good to have an alternative in life and so on and in politics, and I think that the fixation on just one of these two options is not good, and then it is no wonder that we are becoming hostages of our own rhetoric and then we are trying to reevaluate it and say that the political context has changed, and I'm afraid that we are actually not able to change significantly, and we are not able to get into our political discourse so much of the necessary element of rationality and elements of analysis and of one good preparation when it enters into a thing. I say there were and then MPs who mentioned that it wasn't, not that it wasn't, actually that ing was missed when the HSP club asked for it there at the end of 2001 when it was far from the pre-election context, when Slovenia was also not exactly on the threshold that it would enter the European Union then to me, at least I didn't get a representative of the convincing arguments why it was delayed, and then it opened in October last year in the way I opened up and the colleagues before me were talking about it, and then it was quite clear that things didn't stand that simple and whatever we had the right we allowed ourselves to have this right some other factors politically outside to warn us is right but you shouldn't have to exercise it, so remember that we were sitting here in the Assembly when Mr Cox was talking and then we were also told us and we were calmly listened to it. It was supposed to be a signal then that something was going to happen, that things wouldn't work out for us in the meantime. But then unfortunately that one irrational discourse prevailed, so here we heard today from the prime minister himself that he said that then HDZ had... so much because he saw the intentions of part of the coalition then and that in that way, in other words, obviously by some perception of the then political reality that he was trying to reach it, he was actually taking over the rhetoric he thought he was, otherwise, not the best. [[You don't understand.]] Meanwhile, the situation has worsened further, Slovenia has entered the European Union and is now normal that every moment just for these reasons that a colleague of Tadic spoke very ingenuously recently, that in fact this possibility to deny its voice to the Republic of Croatia we are now in an even more defensive position than the one in which we could have been compared to the previous ones. And it is not good again and again we must insist that it is very important that this government and individual ministries come out of this House with a clear national strategy, with our clear national objectives and interests which we, as representatives, could then, regardless of party membership, promote, defend, articulate and normally, continue to fight politically. If we have this, it does not mean that in a particular strategy, in certain objectives we must always think the same way. We have and then warned, and it is in some way again and criticism of both the former and these governments, as if we have certain rights, and the right to the economic belt is not indisputable and certain obligations, and that has been said many times, let's ask ourselves how we deal with these obligations, how in the budget for, say, this year, whether there is a projection for 2005 to 2007, let's say again about this coast guard, as far as we're concerned about the renewal of the fleet, because we're afraid if it just stays on the declarations that we're going to have... rights that we won't even be able to consume and where we're going to lose very large financial sums just because we're not able to realise ourselves. And yet I also think that, as representatives, we should get on the bench these exact simulations, not to really discuss it, not to argue about our emotions, according to some irrational feelings, but simply to try to see what a specific decision is, a particular solution that actually means. I'd really like to see what's wrong with it, what about the Coast Guard, what about the radar, what about, what about our Fishing Fleet, how it can actually protect that space that we should or should declare, and what happens if it doesn't protect itself? Apparently, no one has been denied, one expert said if we declare it so we can't use it, so other Italian fishermen, first of all, continue to hunt there, that they may, after a while, seek certain acquired rights. These are things I'm interested in as a politician. I can say that's not true, that these are certain speculations of certain experts, but these things remain, and we've never really had the right answers. And then normally when we don't have such real answers, when we don't have simulations, when we don't have a clear budget ina policy, when we're really acting from situation to situation, when we're in some teats every time. And today we've heard it's been 15 days, and today we've heard it and then we have to do it really fast. And then normally when it's done very quickly, when you make hasty decisions, that these decisions can't be great and then we get into that very situation so you can get a certain code, do you defend or not defend national interests, do you have or don't have a sense of government problems. We will deal with such a situation, actually, from month to month. Today, we were already able and heard and a whole series of new situations are announced, and then we're going to be stuck with, I don't know, certain documents, we get the papers early in the morning, and we're getting during the day or possibly the day before, so that during the day, the second day we should discuss it. And I'm afraid that then the debates get nervous, they get ideological, they get exclusive, and I'm afraid that the principle of exclusion "or/or" should actually run away. Once again, like then October 3rd, and many times before we appeal really to Analystism, indeed to the government to come out with a very clear simulation and to see what it actually gets and loses or whether we're not really afraid of an empty gun.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13610	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative Kramarić. Now she has the word of Mrs. Representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13611	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Government. While we're here making sure we don't hurt our feelings or God forbid we piss off some of our neighbors, I'd just like to point out how my islanders, my family, neighbors and all the fishermen in general feel right now. Especially those who live off fishing. They feel deceived, betrayed and abandoned. They feel quite the opposite of how they felt in 3.10.2003, when the ecological fishing zone was declared. At the time, they were proud of their parliamentary representatives, especially those from HSP and HDZ who fought hard to make the Croatian Sea finally Croatian. And now what, gentlemen of the Parliament? Where is she now caring about the Croatian man, the fisherman? If we know that in the last 20 years the ratio of the fish caught was 10 to 1 in favour of the Italians, then we know why they fight so hard to stay the way it was. I just don't understand what will benefit the islanders and all fishermen in general who hoped that Croatia would finally strengthen its fleet and thus allow a decent life for people whose life was literally like bread with 7 crusts. While we're discussing it right now, I'm just thinking about how these people feel. Well, they feel as the Croats have felt in the past. Blackmailed, pressured, mostly from his neighbors, and without any protection from his country. I personally don't want to support it because I don't want kids and grandchildren to remember me as someone who didn't want to defend their people's interests. Thank you very much. [[Good job, Rose.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13612	I would like to thank Mrs. Representative Tomasic. Now, Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13613	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. I will try to minimise my exposure, and it seems to me that after all the exposure and a lot of hard words and a lot of emotional debate, it remains the bitter taste that our Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not use all diplomatic methods and all diplomatic means to achieve a stronger negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia before possible, I hope positive candidacy and the start of negotiations for entry into the European Union. I have to say that I answered and I haven't given up this debate just to remember not so long ago. 8 months ago, too, during this late time period, we spoke extremely emotionally, it was violent and unfortunately, I will quote one of your colleagues from HDZ who literally stated: "Between the other, not declaring an economic belt with imagination or out of rude negligence is an act of high treason of the country, state and Croatian people." Unfortunately, from then on, no one has even fenced from such a statement or told all of us, and there have been 70 of us who voted in favour of declaring an ecological fishing belt and turns out that all of us who then voted, and there are colleagues who remember you and who were in the last session, I think it would be a minimum of correctness given the subsequent mind that came to you and that you advocate that yet this solution is correct in terms of possible. Because we are all responsible and we know that our priority is to join the European Union. Can we expect and get at least your apology tonight? That 70 of us and all of the members of the government who have been declared malts to not betrayers should be fenced from such proceedings and from such hard words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13614	I thank Mr. Korenik. And now he has the word of Agent Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13615	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. And also very briefly, a lot of it has been said. It's already become an atmosphere, and it's become a pain in the ass, and it's dilapidated. We've heard a lot of things and just a few words. My colleague Letica mentioned just before my friend and one of the best Lastovo fishermen, Marin Jančić, who, behold, is still the catch of the big corn. He met him near Šcedra, it's an island between Hvar and Korčula, and if he asked Marina, Marine how to vote, then he would certainly vote against this proposal. He's a fisherman, a returnee from Australia, president of the SDP at Lastovo, by accident. If we asked, here's where we got it, if we asked people from the Department of Fisheries, aquaculture and agriculture of the Croatian Chamber of crafts how to vote, they'd tell me, vote against this proposal. I am from Split, from the sea, from Dalmatia, from the atmosphere, what my colleague said before, among fishermen, is that they think they should be against this. So, what's supposed to make me be in? Well, it's just some high political interest, some common interest, something that crosses the party, that goes beyond my experienced knowledge of these people, fishermen. Something that may not be seen now, but is already an interest. I thought they'd find out what it was today, and it ended up upside down. It ended up in heavy ideological calculations. There's an ugly expression in Split about it when you don't have the arguments then you say "he's your mother," you know what. What has nothing to do with the subject you're talking about, and we came to the point that there were arguments here that had nothing to do with the subject of our conversation. And I really didn't find this thing that could justify myself in front of Marina, some other fishermen, in front of this FTA, and I could explain to them and rationalize my decision to support this government proposal. I couldn't do that after this. And unfortunately, I can only say that no one's vanity is mine or someone who has a much greater function in this country, it must not be so "worthy" that for her, we might miss a chance to get to that common political denominator under which we might have been able to fit and maybe she was just missing hair or the main player got into the field at the wrong minute. That's why I'll be against this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13616	I thank Mr. Marin Jurjevic. And now Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13617	Thank you very much, sir... So here, as former Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, I was directly involved in a series of activities on the subject, and it is understandable that I cannot talk about this subject without a certain emotional charge. [[speaks off, can't be heard]] But let's get going, even though it's already too late from some facts, I hope I won't be too long. It is a lot of the indisputable right to its economic belt of the first HDZ government has been analyzed and implanted into its Maritime Code 10 years ago. She is not particularly resented that she did not have the courage to apply it. The previous coalition, first of all since then, has been declared capitalist and courtshipal, has done so in spite of holding back for a year. Leaving enough time for the necessary preparations and implementation of the parliamentary decision, wanting first and foremost to protect its national interests from clear positions, to enter into a further round of talks and agreements with the European Union. and behold now wonders, we have before us a proposal to apply to the Member States of the European Union the protection of the ecological fishing band of the Republic of Croatia to the protection of the ecological fisheries regime, starting after the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement between the European Union and Croatia. In other words, it is delayed until further application of the decision for those for which the decision has and had to enter into force, it shall be postponed without delay and without obligation to conclude a potential partnership agreement in any reasonable time. Besides, who's in the best interest of him getting together except us? And we know that for what it takes as well as for love, it's always two. As far as I know the basis of the published statements by Italian and Slovenian participants in the talks on our ecological fishing band, these countries have proposed three options for Croatia. Announcing a common band of all three states. Delay of application of the Croatian Belt. And the application of the Croatian Belt only to countries, not to members of the European Union. All three proposed solutions have one common line. In different packagings, they try to maintain the status quo in terms of Italian fishing in the Adriatic. It's clear why. While the Croatian fishing sea is the only part of the Adriatic, the only remaining shelter from the fish, which only partially compensates for its full survival in the rest of the Adriatic. Until then, a comprehensive overfishing has taken place in the rest of nobody's waters and the Italian fishing sea, and this practice is not sustainable in the long term, and that our decision has gone in the direction of establishing a policy of rationally responsible fishing that is not absolutely at present. So it's about one proposal put forward in three ways. All three ways share several common problems. First, neither of these means ensures the conservation of the Adriatic fish fund, but on the contrary, its further devasting is guaranteed. Secondly, all three proposals forget that the Croatian Belt applies not only to fishing but also to the protection of the marine environment as well as to the scientific research of the sea. It is difficult to see what would constitute the legitimacy of the proposal for a postponement in the part of the protection of the Adriatic Sea and its research. Trends in the European Union, the Mediterranean Action Plan, the reform of the common fisheries policy in general, go exactly the opposite. In fact, the acceleration of such processes was in some way supported by Mr. Fisher, and it is known that the conclusions of the Venice Conference are also going in this direction. As regards the proposal for the application of the Croatian Belt only to countries, not to members of the European Union. I have to make a special point here. Croatia must study whether unwanted implications would arise for it, given its membership in the World Trade Organisation. Before Croatia even engages in a discussion on the scale of such a proposal, it must examine whether other WTO Member States could be subject to such selective application in breach of the principle of non-discrimination. In fact, as Croatia is not yet a formal candidate, let alone a member of the European Union, but is a member of the World Trade Organisation, it could not be called upon to exclude the same membership in the regional economic organisation, I believe that Mr. Vice President and Government are particularly concerned, because it could certainly be a major problem. It is not necessary to lose sight of the fact that the declaration of an ecological fishing belt in the Adriatic was the result of our understanding of much broader interests than fishing interests. They are in the sphere of vital interests of the Croatian economy, especially the development of the tourism economy, which is the backbone of the country's economic development. Therefore, it is understood and justified that Croatia, with a sustainable justification for fishing, protects and preserves the purity of its sea and coast by means of an affirmation in international law and practice. To have 5 thousand 835 kilometers of its coast, over a thousand islands, a population that is forever familiar with all the secrets of staying and surviving in this precious space, but a population that is in need of employment. All of this is denied in the interest of a wider community. Respecting these interests of highly developed economies and protecting their existing fishing jobs. And only by staying deaf and blind to the cry of his unemployed. Gentlemen, I ask myself, are we going to ask Europe to feed us or just teach us how to reach its standards more painlessly and faster? Are we going to make peace with the annual import of over 50,000 tons of tiny blue fish, and we can hunt it in our Adriatic? Are we going to give up our fleet reconstruction and reconstruction program because the neighbors across the street have too many ships anyway? Are we going to change the rules at every moment, so who do they come from the European Union? Will our monetary and fixed policy be run by the government or the IMF? Do we finally have to put our necks under every yoke, so whoever took it to our head? Croatia is an independent state and as young as it is and has often shown itself to be inexperienced, especially in international relations, there is one fact that should always go. The most drastic natural resource of Croatia, it is a unique yet preserved and beautiful sea, coast and islands, and all in the middle of the Mediterranean, in the heart of the now-expanded Europe. It's the last card that can't be put in a register of imaginary community. What do we have left after that? We are left only to the core of the naked, empty sovereignty, which in itself is worth less than one oatmeal of fish from our belt which... We have to buy from the Italians anyway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, a few more brief notes regarding the war we've been making so far. Unfortunately, Slovenia's involvement in the talks with Italy I think a mistake has been made because Slovenia itself has decided that there is no going out to the open sea, it has given up, it has also been known through the United Nations and I think that a mistake has been made in that part of the conversation, and it is clear that the interest of both Slovenia and Italy has been unique in that part. When it got stuck in a dead end, it was an unskilled attempt to resort to two-sided conversations that had nothing but humiliation that this House was now being introduced into. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13618	Honored representative Plasimir Mršić
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13619	The Honorable President, after the glow of inappropriate words that Mr. Sanader has brought down on me and his colleagues, I see no reason to argue, therefore by giving up the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13620	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Antun Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13621	For the same reasons as my colleague Mršić, I am giving up the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13622	Thank you. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja. I ask the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Andrija Hebrang, to take the final word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13623	Honored Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, today there have been beautiful and ugly events and I think it's all normal when it comes to big things. In the final word, I would once again point out why the government believes that the very high degree of seriousness of the decision we are going to make today for the future of the Croatian state is especially counting on 17 June when deciding on our fate, in other words whether we are catching another step for Europe or coming back one step towards the Balkans. There were no direct pressures like I said, there were no blackmails, there were no conditions we had to meet. There were no threats. But it's exactly what the Prime Minister said. We were warned but not so someone called and said we're warning you, you have to do it anyway. But as 17 June approaches, we are increasingly alerted to those decisions of the European Union, the European Community concerning this matter. And as I said in the opening part, we're listening more and more often to the following. That's a recommendation from... The European Commission that the Republic of Croatia needs to comply with this decision with its neighbours. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are increasingly warned that the Declaration of the Ministerial Conference on Sustainable Fisheries in the Mediterranean Seas is related to mutual negotiation. They are increasingly warning us about the European Union's common fisheries policy and are increasingly warning us that they have also mentioned in avis that the desire for a decision has been taken without consultation. That's those warnings. And when these warnings are orderly more and more often as the day is approaching, then of course it's up to us politicians to figure out that message. And we interpreted it the way I brought it here. I am sure that during your decision-making, there will be overcoming prudence and reason as it has always been in the crucial moments of Croatian history when our mutual differences as they were today have been suppressed into another plan and the common interest of the Croatian future has prevailed. I also invite you to this opportunity to leave our differences when we judge, we judge in our decision aside because they are the consequence of the moment, the excitement, the moment of some of the effects. We were a little destabilized by that comparison with high treason, but let's forget about that, and that insult was certainly said in one effect, not for intent, insult. What I would like to say in the final part, we are deeply convinced that this decision will be one of the important elements of the 17th. And as the Prime Minister said, we must have exactly 25 hands in the air, not 24. And then it is possible that any misunderstanding should only be made as a agenda for one hand to be brought down and the fate of Croatia goes away and all the efforts of Mr. Racan and the Government of Mr. Sanader go away in vain. So I would ask you to take this step further and I assure you this step is only a delay and only a delay in one part of this decision and this delay is not indefinite, this delay is still set and the deadline for negotiations with the European Community. Hence, it is obvious and is not measured by any long or measurable periods. So here, as in all the years of recent history, we have managed to move our ratios under the carpet, as all parties have succeeded with less or more fluctuations always to keep the direction that has been in the interest of the Croatian state myself today, our responsibility to future generations has always depended on whether at a crucial moment we can forget about our excitements, those little differences and keep what certainly binds us all in this assembly, which is the future of the Croatian state. And on behalf of that, I invite you to support the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13624	Thank you very much. We're going to vote. Mr. Prime Minister, Vice President, prepare to vote and show off on the amendments first. Amendments to the Legislative Committee. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13625	Amendment 1 to the Legislative Committee is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13626	Thank you very much, it becomes an integral part of the decision. Amadman 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13627	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13628	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13629	This amendment cannot be accepted for the simple reason why we cannot unilaterally make a decision on the prohibition of fishing but we accept that it can be an integral part of the fisheries negotiations, of course, of all sides of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13630	Minister, I'm an HSP amendment. Maybe we haven't heard from each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13631	What number was it?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13632	Four.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13633	And I've read three. Excuse me. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13634	Dear Representative Tonci Tadic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13635	Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. We believe that the best response to these international pressures on the Republic of Croatia is to declare the full content of the economic belt. The Republic of Croatia has and has this possibility, except for that possibility leaves point 2. Decisions extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea to raise the current ecological and fishing zone to a full economic belt. In this case, we believe that it would be far clearer and far easier to implement all negotiations concerning the implementation of the existing eco-fishing zone because they would exactly call for a complete mechanism of declaring and implementing economic belts, which have been carried out by 125 countries in the world. I believe that, in that case, the situation of Croatia would be far easier. That's why I'm asking you to hold a vote on the HSP amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13636	Thank you. Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And Amendment number three. That's the HSS Attorney's Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13637	Now this is an explanation. This amendment requires a ban on fishing for all species for one year and so on, which would certainly be necessary and commendable for our Adriatic but I don't think we can do it unilaterally. It would be contrary to the interest of what we are now asking of you, but it may be an integral part of all negotiations. We support this, however, at this point, we cannot accept this amendment for this reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13638	Thank you very much. A colleague of the Marks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13639	Mr. President and Mr. Vice-President of the Government, this is exactly the amendment we hold to reconcile the positions of neighbouring countries and the European Commission. For what? So precisely because he, in his character, contains in his character the instrument of a temporary partnership agreement for which a one-year term is given. So it's exactly that time-out that can be arranged, and that's how the prime minister said it might be in three months. But on the other hand, it precisely affects not only the ecological fishing zone but also the exclusive fishing belt and everything that was actually discussed today and October 3rd of last year, which is the protection of the Adriatic, the protection of what is most valuable in the Adriatic, and these are the biological resources that are unfortunately so exhausted, and unfortunately so little exhausted by our side more than the Italian side. And that is why this amendment, I believe, is one or something modified, can fully satisfy the interests of neighbours, because no one, including Croatian fishermen, would have the right to fish in the area of the ecological and fishing zone for a year. We believe that this is a very reasonable proposal, which can ultimately break out those alibis that can have members of all 25 when voting because it gives and deny the right above all Croatia but also for the benefit of all. And all 25, because if we try to get out, then we won't need this or similar laws anymore because there won't be any reason to apply them. Therefore, this is primarily and politically but also economic interest. If not accepted, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13640	Please vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Now we're going to vote on the motion for a decision in general. Here you go, fellow Flyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13641	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We're looking for an individual vote from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13642	Okay. So he's voting for or against. Who's up for the motion decision? Yeah. For, against or abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13643	Jane Adam - Đurđa Adlešić -, Irena Ahel - za, Zdenko Antešić - v, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović - v, Željka Antunović - v, Franjo Arapović - za, Mato Arlović - v, Zdenka Babić- za, Stjepan Bačić - za, Ivan Bagarić - za, Marija Bajt -, Ivo Banac -, Dražana Krubić -, Žežana Brdarić -, Marijan Bekavac - za, Danira Bilić - za, Jure Bitunjac - za, Florijan Boras -, Žaža Hrović -, Jažica Brdarić -, Mate Brletić - for, Mirjana Brnadić - for, Kaya - for, Kaya Buč - for, Perica Buk - for, Perica Bukić - for, Perica Buk - for Žižica - Žič, Žič, Žič, Žič, Žič, Žič, Žika, Žika, Žlažica, Žiržica, Žika, Žika, Žaj, Žaj, Žiržižižižižižižižižižižiž, Žižižižižiž i, Žiž i, Žiž i, Ž. Darko Milinović – za, Neven Mimica –, Petar Mlinarić -, Zvonimir Mršić – v, Željko Nenadić – za, Živko Nenadić -, Milanka Opačić -, Ivica Pančić -, Božidar Pankretić -, Božidar Pankretić, Branimir Pasek - za, Jelena Pavić -, Željko Pavlic -, Željko Pacek -, Bišerka Perman -, Dragoete Pošić-Bukovac - za, Tonino Picić -, Velimir Pljević -, Vesna Pusić -, Valter Poropat, Drago Poš - Žoživ, Žoživ, Žoživ - Žoživ, Radoživ, Dragožov Proš -, Dragotinjić, Dragotinić, Dragotin Puk Puk - Za, Zkov Pukć Puk - Zkov - Za, Zvić - Zvić - Zvić - Zvr, Zvić Pović Pović - Zalić - Zavić - Zavić - Žilić - Zal, Žilić - Žilić - Zal, Žilić - Žilić, Žilić - Zal, Žilić - Žilić - Žilić - Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić - Žilić, Žilić - Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić - Žilić, Žilić - Žilić - Žilić - Žilić - Zalić - Zalić - Zal, Zal, Žal, Zal, Zal, Žal, Žal, Žal, Žal, Žal, Žal, Žal, Žal, Žal, Žal, Žal, Kr, K.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13644	Jadranka, you're missing a page because I see Mr. Marin Jurjevic has five more six, 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13645	Krešimir Čosić, Miljenko Doric, Valter Drandić –za, Ivan Drmić, Josip Đakić, Anto Đapić- v, Sredko Ferenčak, Mirko Filipović, Stjepan Fiolić-za, Katarina Fuček-za, Ratko Gajica, Mato Gavran, Branimir Glavas-za, Zdenko Haramija, William Herman, Silavno Hrelja, Nikola Ivaniš, Rade Ivas-za, Gordan Jandroković, Ivan Jarnjak, Ivo Josiplović Vlado Jukić-anti, Ljubo Jurčić, Neven Jurica-za, Marijan Jurjević-anti, Damir Kaiin, Antun Krapaljević, Ivan Klem-za, Ivan Kolar-anti, Miroslav Korenika, Alenka Košičina Čičina Šain-prot, Pero Kovačin-Kovačin-Kovačin-Kvatović, Vladimir Kvatović, Vladimir Žátović, Krutović, Krutović, Kruč.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13646	You didn't and Chunka's representative gives me a sign that you didn't read it there. Tomislav Culka.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13647	Jene Adam, Ivo Banac, Snježana Biga Friganović, Radimir Čačić, Miljenko Doric, Mirko Filipović, Sredko Ferenčak, Zdenko Haramija, William Herman, Gordan Jandrković, Ljubo Jurčić, Damir Kajin, Antun Kapraljevic, Zlatko Kramarić, Željko Kravljan, Ljubica Lalic, Josip Leko, Marija Lugarić, Jakša Marasović, Franco Matušić, Jagoda Martic, Neven Mimica, Ivica Pančić, Jelena Pavić, Željko Pavić, Željko Pavlic, Biserka Perman, Antun Peruško, Doretjeja Pesić Bukoavc, Valter Porop, Milorad Pupoavc, Vesna Pusić, Furio Radin, Gordana Sobol, Nena Stazić, Vesna Škulić, Vesna Škućić, Damir Tanković, Damir Tanković. Jozo Topic, Davorko Vidovic, Nikola Vuljanić, Mario Zumbović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-03-0.u13648	I find that with 71 votes for and 39 against, the decision to supplement the Decision extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea is in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament tomorrow at 9.30 p.m., we will continue to discuss amendments and additions to the Penal Code, two laws. The debate is still in the clubs. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected representative Bošnjaković, then representative William Herman on behalf of his club, colleague Vresk on behalf of the HSS club, Đurđa Adlešić on behalf of the club and colleagues Josipovic as an eighth, so we have five other clubs and then we have 12 registered representatives for individual debate. After that debate, we would discuss the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Communist Economy, an emergency procedure and the Law on interest, an emergency procedure and a proposal for a decision to refer members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to the Peace Mission in Haiti, and if we get anything else, then in the afternoon section of the vote, and that would be that. Thank you very much. And now they'd move on to the next point. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the law on the municipal economy, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 99; The legislator is the Government; we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law when setting the agenda, you received the proposal by mail. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings, the amendments may apply until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative, Economic Development and Reconstruction, Spatial Regulation and Environment Protection, the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. I ask the Minister of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction Ms. Marina Matulović Dropulić to give an additional consideration to the proposal. And Vice-President Vesna Pusic to take over the parliament's presidency.
