ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13848	Good morning! Dear ladies and gentlemen, the law regulates the billing and payment of tight interest. Where the debtor is late in fulfilling the monetary obligations and the contracting and accounting of the most permitted rate of contractual interest. And finally, this law also regulates the payment of interest in the return of more paid public revenues. In this way, compliance is also carried out with the European Economic Community Directive, Council Directive 93/13 of 5 April 1993 concerning unfair consumer contracts. According to the proposed legal text, the sublaw would determine the level of interest rates. On the basis of this proposal, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as defined in the Law, would prescribe, on a proposal from the Committee for the Determination of Interest Rates, the rates of the most permitted contractual interest and the interest rates for more paid public revenues. And so far, the government's regulation has prescribed tight interest and interest on more paid public revenues. This legislative proposal unambiguously provides that the tightened interest is calculated by applying a decursive simple interest account and explicitly stresses that there is no attribution of interest to the principal after the expiry of the accounting period. In the text there is also a mathematical term for the calculation of tight interest. The law also proposes the establishment of an expert body, which would also be representatives of the Croatian National Bank, financial institutions, consumers and consumer associations. The board's term of office would be four years. The proposed legal text provides for the supervision of the implementation of this law in the case of creditors, legal persons and natural persons to be carried out by supervisory authorities which otherwise have special laws in charge of their supervision. Criminal provisions are also prescribed. Under the transitional and final provisions, the Government of the Republic of Croatia would be obliged to adopt within 90 days a new regulation on the level of the tightened interest rate, the most permitted contractual interest and interest on more paid public revenues. And within 60 days, the finance minister would be obliged to appoint members of the interest rate committee. By the time these new regulations were adopted, the Regulation on interest rate levels, the National Journal 72 of 2002, would apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13849	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to? On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the President of the Committee is a respected representative of Šima Prtnječa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13850	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the Committee proposes one amendment, and I will read the text of the decision, or the conclusions of the Committee in full. At the 10th session held on 2 June 2004, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft interest law with the Final Bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 27 May 2004. In its opening statement, the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that the law in question removes the possibility of different practices relating to the calculation of tight interest because it is unambiguously prescribed that the tight interest is calculated by a proportionate method without crediting interest at the end of the accounting period. In addition to the law in question, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall determine that, at the recommendation of the expert bodies of the Committee for the establishment of interest rates, the highest permitted contractual interest shall be determined. The Committee unanimously supported the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to comply with Article 161 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be adopted by the law in question by an urgent procedure, as the same legislation shall be harmonised with the acquis of the European Union. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Interest Law together with the next amendment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final draft of the law in the second row behind the word of the Croatian National Bank is given a decimal point and the words are added: Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Employers' Association. Explanation: it is necessary that representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Employers' Association should also be present in the Committee establishing interest rates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13851	Thank you. Do you want another reporter from the board? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Let's discuss clubs. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, a respected representative of Šima Prtnječa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13852	Thank you very much. Once again, I'll do it very briefly. I don't suppose this interest law is that controversial. We heard the reasons and arguments in the introduction. I will briefly repeat some of these arguments and, in fact, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I will support this proposal. I believe other parties wouldn't have anything special that would be possible in the conflict of party or other interests. Approximately simplistically, the previous Law on tight interest was continued in one part or was taken over from the former SRJ and so far different changes essentially had a fundamental objective of protecting the credentials. However, in its application through different periods, it has somehow transformed into a mere contrast to that protection of the credentials and, in its very own way, by its comfortable method, which was calculated in the shortest period of interest, it happened that, in this shorter period of time, heavy interest was calculated on interest and thus there were enormous amounts in which, unfortunately, many traumas occurred in our society both personally, individually and many companies, especially those debtors who owed banks or others, others, other claims that led to enormous accounts which ended in bankruptcy and various times. So far, it's probably been put in another way, so no government has ever, in any case, been, without exception, particularly involved. In early May, however, this government tried to intervene with interpretation or decision, the view of interpreting the calculation of tight interest, not a month later, but also the Law on tight interest. This is what we support, and we believe that this way of tightening interest at this point is much more favourable for all participants than it was for the current way of calculating tight interest. That is why the HDZ supports this proposal, or we believe that it needs to be adopted today by emergency procedure and ultimately not to report again, Mr. President, let me personally express my opinion that, uh, of course, if I can?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13853	You speak for the club. Later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13854	Thank you very much. I'm done. Havala nice. I'm finishing up, so I support this law and we're asking it to be accepted today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13855	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13856	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the ministry, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. Well, here's a clue to my predecessor's point of view. I think this is a commendable suggestion. I will repeat, and many times I've had that hand at this pay phone in Croatia, big things on the economic side of the future will simply not be able to happen overnight. No more room for new large new loans, a radical tax reduction for the best showed a drop in VAT rates. There is no more room to sow illusions that the average pensions of 1.1.2005 will be 50% of the average salary. As there is no illusion that I do not know, let's say, the diaspora will trigger the Republic of Croatia or that the European Union without which we can clearly give us anything for nothing. They're floscules. So what's only safe in this country from day to day is going to work more and more, it's going to be clearly better, not overnight, and this is one of those laws that makes it possible. Rather than doing anything and correcting under quotes one civilization injustice and one who would not support it is not normal enough. First of all, it's a good thing that tight interest is no longer being added to the principal. We all know what happened over the past 14 years when interest rates were 3.4, 5.6% a month and there were cases of tight interest rates being 1% a day. About a month or a month or a half ago, Mr. Klaric mentioned the case of a Zagreb company that owed 60 thousand kuna there in 91 years and was obliged to pay 14 or 15 million kuna at the end of last year. We all know of countless similar cases, when small people for 14, for 20,000 marks, were left without apartments, no houses, no estate. In this regard, almost daily people have spoken to me from Rovinj, Fažana, Pula, Zadar, and so on, and it is clear that such practice should be put to an end. It's a shame to say that everyone in this country has been camped. The cameras, the lenders, the dealers of the children on the street according to the state model, the interest rates of the interest companies are grandmothers, local self-government, and the state itself. I dare even say that the biggest interest rate in this country was the state, pardon the highest interest rate was the state institutions, specifically our courts, or the paying office today's Fina. Why was that? The courts would regularly demand the calculation of tight interest clearly because they were not qualified, from Zap. And ZAP regularly added interest to the principal, which damaged tens of thousands of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The fact that courts, on the other hand, are not qualified to calculate a tight interest does not mean that they could at least refer to a questionable immoral verdict. It is fortunate, on the other hand, that in this country, to joke, we have a million and a half million non-rhythmic objects, because it could have been so that there were several hundred more squeezes of the Republic of Croatia. It is a debtor, which does not clearly appoint them if they did not meet their contractual obligations properly. But in the business world, it's just not always easy to do business. In particular, it was not easy to do business in the Republic of Croatia especially not small ones who had to create all their hands, so those who did not have a monopoly that did not participate in the conversion, those for whom no one cared, who had simply ruined the indifference that ruled the country in 98,99 because they had to take jobs in debt. And in the end, big companies didn't pay them. And they'd fall apart. Now they're asking the law in my court two questions. The first tightened interest on today is 15%. Whether or not she'll be reduced. The IDSa club suggests that it is up to 11% in the future, because in a country where inflation below 2 and a half percent, I suppose, annual profits from banks or some 500 percent interest rate should be quite sufficient. Everything else would be a loan. And secondly, and that's the central question, would the cameras mean the institution's bank and so on, but also the courts, but they were wrong, that is, the state, that it should compensate more reparated citizens who, in some cases, even by killing themselves, solved their debt agony. My lord, there are such cases. They were honorable men who owed no one anything, who had simply been led to alleged debt slavery and simply suicides, under quotes, also shortened their family's psychological and all the other torments. So now, if the banks of the state, the cameras and so on, should be retroactively due to unsonated enrichment, at least within that period of the 5-year term, we should pay back the money. And here the question arises, how does it vote for this law? I know if we were to go on a retroactive return of this sheep, to simply bankrupt the state, to shut down the banks in this country, the state would be blacklisted with which no one would want to work. But let's open the debate once and for all because hundreds of thousands of citizens were literally robbed by these institutions in the Republic of Croatia. It is reported that in Croatia, interest rates are in the interest rate of the main interest, with as much money as Croatian foreign debt means somewhere around $25 billion. The figure was mentioned by the current justice minister. For the future, we all know how clearly believers will behave, but what it means to those who are damaged. How to help them. The third thing that needs to be done here is to limit the contractual interest, maximum 8%, if the tightness is to be maximum, let's say, according to the IDS11% proposal. The Mandatory Relations Act mentions above all a contractual interest rate which cannot be higher than the interest rate paid on savings deposits by sight, the Mandatory Relations Act also states that if the interest is not determined it must not exceed 6%. And finally, on this same mandatory relationship law, it says that interest rates can be the highest 8% in the interest of the economy contract. Now we read in the New List of the Voice of Istria today, and so on, that the bankers' association proposes that the Italian model be increased by 50% to the contractual amount, that the contracted amount is increased by 50%, and even pays us that I don't know the autocredits should be 12%, for the house of about 10%, the current account credit at 22%. And whoever is already proposing this Italian model, then let's just look at how much interest this is on cars in Italy, it's between 0 and 1%. Plus 50% would mean maximum treable would be 1 and a half percent, to apartments maximum 4%, so it should be 6%, in Croatian case and so on, but let's simply release something that our commission will do in the future. Secondly, the interest on the savings by sighting in kuna average in Croatia paid by our banks is 1, 77%. While the funds in the giro account and the current account amount to, the banks pay us 0.75% of the interest. But these same banks at minus current account charge 15% today a year ago are all over 20%, and to overrun the allowed minute, some to 30%. We don't know what's going on on the card. I don't know what's going on here. I don't know what's going on here. I don't know what's going on. All that our citizens clearly know, they don't care about living simply must. In addition to Ersta Bank, which tightens interest at this time accounts for 15%, all other banks tighten interest which is determined by law by the note to 15% without any coincidences, and there are banks like Primus deliberately mentioning it, which charges the interest tightened as much as 30% and the law defines that 15%. So all the penalties mentioned in this proposal are logical, but for banks, they're small. How does a bank mean consciousness of real gain is a second question, and maybe even prison sentences here should regulate that matter. Although when I talk about these foreign banks, clearly those domestic legal entities today, they operate under Croatian laws, hire our people, pay for the profits in the Republic of Croatia, normal profits abroad, we were deprived of the other foreign fears of bankruptcy that rocked Croatia in the 1990s, enough to mention Rijeka, Glamin, I don't know Osijek Bank, etc. and those who survived on the other hand have been remedied with dozens of billions from the Republic of Croatia's budget. The only non-recovery bank, which had huge problems, even with the lack of state money, was the Istrian Bank. I repeat, IDS supports this law. This is one in my court of law, a concrete economic and social measure, thanking a valuable measure. Croatia must limit interest on loans, as this can trigger some activity. We are not going to do big things in Croatia with billions of dollars clearly borrowed abroad, for example. Citizens are encouraged to invest less interest, easier access to a building loan permit, reduced real estate price, etc. It is clear to those who are agreed on today that the amount of interest above the state specified, and what should be done soon, the team should meet in the future and be aware of the same to the highest possible measure. Here by this law, as the people say, a single blow simply kills a few flies. There's a cut in tight interest. It is necessary to reduce the contractual interest, to redefine the calculation of the tight interest clearly as proposed in a way that is not included in the principal. And lastly, I repeat, this is one real economic development, so if we really want a social measure, and we have to understand clearly that life actually depends on the little things that interest in that life, and many of the interest in that life has ruined that life. Citizens want to live clearly in an orderly state, and this law can help them simply to know how much they will pay in advance if there are any problems. Maybe one more sentence for which this law is the most proposed by the government. I would even dare say that this law is more proposed for the country itself than for the citizens. Why? You see, there's been a lot of talk lately about this deficit. It doesn't matter how much he is now, but something else is interesting here, that our citizens are looking for 8.5 billion kuna at this point on various grounds either because I don't know because of the debts for overtime, cops, etc. Mr. Bajic mentioned once that there is no fear that the state will pay all 8.5 billion kuna because they will receive about 51% of disputes over the damage claims. So the state can prepare itself at this time to pay 4 billion kuna to our citizens and institutions. It's better not to think about it, but we'll talk about it soon when the budget is rebalanced, and then really this law is imposed as one that should somehow save the country itself, not just the citizens. All in all, it is good if both of them benefit from this, but once again I say simply this future commission should be kept in mind that some proposals from our bankers who are too big a lobby look and for this government are not realised in a way that I don't know again which times these institutions make life worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13857	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club PGS, Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13858	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. As Mr. Caine has already said by the introduction, this law regulates two areas. Areas governed in practice by the laws of the so-called Wild capitalism where it's still worth applying the method grabs what you can, and you know who under these circumstances profites, who pays the bill. The first area is the application of tight interest rates where interest rates have been tightened since some accounting period most often attributed to the principal, and then a new tight interest on such a formed principal, so on. Anatocysm, so interest on interest. In this way, the creditors made enormous profits quite disproportionate to the amount of credit they gave and the risk they had. That's doubtless if you look at the Penal Code definition of interest. Debtants fell on a beggar stick in the situation, dozens and hundreds of thousands of people lost their property in Croatia. The second area of determining the maximum contractual interest regulated by Articles 399 to 402. The law on mandatory relations as a general rule and, in criminal terms, of course, Article 233. Penalty law. The law provides for the establishment of an interest rate committee which will recommend to the Government a maximum contractual interest rate in accordance with statistical data for a specified period. Of course, the HNS and PGS club supports all efforts to protect a large number of Croatian citizens from inaccessible robbery through unreasonable interest rates, unfair interest calculation. But we warn of one thing, and in the current regulation, there was the possibility of protecting citizens, so the debtors, but these opportunities were very rarely used. For example, the Law on Mandatory Relations of Article 279(1) provides that the maturity of the non-payment of the contractual or tightened interest and the second is the result of occasional cash payments, so interest shall not run on a tight interest unless the law provides. Thus, interest on interest anatocyism could be prevented by now, i.e. the applicable positive regulations made such a practice impossible, yet terrible interest rates took place. However, Article 400 of the same law states that these provisions prohibiting the payment of interest on interest do not apply to the credit operations of banks and other banking organisations. So the banks could charge interest on interest, there were no legal violations. However, it is interesting that this part of the regulation is very often used when judicial disputes arise in court practice and that the proposed law, which is nevertheless a lex specialis, is not mentioned, so it will continue to apply this provision of the Law on Mandatory Relations that is directly contrary to this law which should now be passed at this session. There will be a conflict between two laws, one of which is lex specialis, another general law, and the question is how the courts will behave further. Most likely to act on the interests of the stronger as they have done so far, the practice shows this and banks will continue to charge interest on interest, this time not under the Law on interest but under the Law on Mandatory Relations. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Mandatory Relations Act refers to the amount of interest not paid can only be required on the date on which the court is applied for indemnity. Prior to that request, the debtor should be warned, the whole procedure should be passed, this practice of course was not respected, otherwise such interest-stealing as it has occurred in the last few years would not exist. The strict application of this Act would prevent most unfair practices. The Law on Mandatory Relations again states that the rate of contractual interest between individuals cannot be greater than the interest rate paid in the place of fulfillment for savings stakes by sight, that is what counterpart Cain said, it is never respected anywhere and in any way by the contracts that citizens and companies make with banks. There's one more thing about contractual interest. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Mandatory Relations Act stands if a higher interest is agreed than the permitted rate will be applied with the highest allowed interest. We have received an amendment to benches that in this sense modifyes and this proposed law, it already stands in the legal regulations, unfortunately, does not apply. Since controversial situations will arise in court practice, i.e. the general law, the Law on Mandatory Relations and Legis of the Interest Act, in a completely different way and the opposite way, should clearly be done in this general law. Legal opportunities to protect citizens from interest rates and interest rates are evident and now exist. Maybe they're unsaid, maybe they're not adjusted for a moment because this law was taken over from Yugoslavia but there are. The only question is whether there is political will for both the authorities and the judicial apparatus to side with citizens and not the side of the banking giants. The provisions of Article 401 are also relevant. The law on mandatory relations that says that interest ceases to flow, so it stops counting when the amount of interest paid and not the interest paid reaches the capital. So if the debtor borrowed 50 thousand marks he could return 100 marks or some other currency, not 101 thousand, the Law on Mandatory Relations prevents it. Of course practice shows that for the debtor nothing. According to Dr. Boris Viznar, one of our most important experts in terms of mandatory relations, effectively prohibits the maturity of interest, which in his words means that interest must not be allowed to become some kind of rent, but interest should remain what the law defines as compensation to the believer for borrowed money. In a situation where interest crosses the height of the principal, it simply becomes a rent and the believer can live indefinitely at the expense of the debtors. In the light of the proposal, which is interesting, in fact, for the adoption of this Act by emergency procedure, the Proposer only speaks of adapting "the acquis of the European Union". The HNS PGS club can't and doesn't want to believe it's just like that. It is thought that most of the procedures and decisions proposed by the government are of a palatable and fire-fighting nature. That is to say, to propose decisions exclusively on what someone outside Croatia is pressured or we think that he could pressure himself or is about to put pressure on himself, such as the IMF case of value added tax, the case of some members of the European Union about the ecological fishing belt, compliance with international conventions in criminal law, etc., so we do all the time what we think someone told us we should do or what someone really told us we should do. Well, I guess we also have our reasons for passing laws that will apply in our country, which will be valid in Croatia. It is quite clear that we need to adapt our legislation to European criteria, it is not a question, the HNS has finally advocated this for years, but it should not work, as I am already in the discussion of the Penal Code just to meet someone's pressures. Adaptation to standards is good primarily because these standards are effective in practice in some other countries and good and of interest to citizens of the Republic of Croatia. All right, as far as this bill is concerned, it would not only be necessary, but inevitably, to adapt this Law to the general law, i.e. to make adequate amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations, so that there is no conflict between these two laws. This is actually meeting the spirit of some European standards and European principles of action. The fundamental reason for the adoption of this Law should be to prevent interest, interest, and in fact, it is a terrible situation where citizens and entire families are left without all due to the initial modest innocent loans by applying unfair interest and its unfair accounting. A situation where criminals or criminals who use criminal methods to earn profits even violently charge such interest becomes rich and well - known citizens. These circumstances are very clearly described in Article 233. The penal code, which takes advantage of the need for heavy property opportunities, insufficient experience, lack of thoughtfulness or reduced judgment ability of another person to receive from it or with it contracts for himself, or other property benefit which is in obvious disproportionate to what he has given, did, or committed himself to give or do will be punished by a fine or sentence of up to 1 year. The second sentence of paragraph 1 of this Article will also punish who is involved in the granting of loans with disproportionate property benefit. By applying better words, by avoiding the application of the spirit of the law on mandatory relations that is now in force and kidnapping besides and above the Law, the banks and not only banks have achieved enormous benefit at the expense of the poorest citizens of the Republic of Croatia and have come out of spilling social wealth into one direction in which I cannot believe that the legislator wanted social wealth to be overrun. We should ask ourselves, and so did fellow Cain, what about this property, which is with this wealth, which is with the wrongful gain achieved, and whether there is a way to at least ease this injustice if it doesn't cancel or simply eat the donkey wolf, so what was it? The HNS PGS Club considers usury and interest rate, which is simply what this Law wants to prevent by an extremely dangerous act. Therefore, in the amendments that you have hoped to receive on the bench, we propose to link Article 10 of this Act where you are referring to criminal provisions for interest you are counting against the Law in accordance with Article 233. The Penal Code, therefore, is not a violation but of the Penal Code, i.e. provided for prison sentences for the negotiation, accounting or collection of interest higher than those to be prescribed in accordance with Article 5 of this Act. We believe that this High House and this opportunity should show that it is behind the interest and legal protection not only of multinational and domestic banking giants, newly-roasted rich people who borrow money under immoral and unfair terms under the law, but also of the interest of our citizens who live by force of bad opportunities from day to day, from credit to credit, and we hope that this Parliament will protect these very interests. The rest of the legal text, of course, from the previous fence, is considered acceptable and will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13859	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13860	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! At first, I would like to say an anecdote when I asked a professor of the Faculty of Economics about interest to explain to me I came here with a proposal for this final law and he told me something like this. Don't do this because the banks in Croatia are still too strong. This is about the situation in which we bring the Final Proposal of the Interest Law. To do so immediately, this law did not fully regulate interest and is called interest law. The first article discusses tight interest rates and contractual interest rates. Since everyone who is not professors at the Faculty of Economics or not economists knows that the role of interest in the economy of a country in the fiscal and monetary system may be one of the most important levers and tight interest is the cost of using the government's resources based on other economic parameters. No matter how we pass this law to banks because of inaccuracy, the possibility remains to charge interest in the time-consuming use of banking capital in such a way as to first collect interest and then charge the principal and thus secure a more favourable position. The current method of calculating interest has been in place and functioning since 1994 when a regulation on the level of tightened interest was adopted, or since 1996, when the law was passed. My colleagues and colleagues, let us remember what has been going on in Croatia since 1994 in economic, financial and I would say in the fundamental relations of Croatian society. Privatisation in Croatian is at its peak, the schedule in society, the schedule of economic and financial forces is precisely in 1994-1993, Croatia brings a stabilisation programme but it has never produced results as a whole. So the interest was tight interest and the way to calculate the tight interest was the means to determine new relations in Croatian society, new powers of power deployment. Why did it take so long? What motivated the government to put forward a motion like this now, and in our court better than none, rather than to continue the trend we had. He's not complete. So what motivated the Government of the Republic of Croatia to come up with this proposal now? I think everyone in Croatia knows that one affair marked tight interest rates in the Croatian banking but also the economic world and that disputes were conducted through newspapers and courts. I can't claim it's the only reason, but it's really symptomatic that now comes the Slight Interest Act. Of course, the methods involved should also determine dynamics and not just methods. In the very law of Article 1 I have already said that we are talking about tight interest in Article 1(1) and paragraph 3 of Article 1 of this article we are talking about contractual interest. I must say that the article is inaccurate when the whole law is read more precisely is not certain whether this provision applies to religious debt relations between legal and legal persons, legal and physical persons, and natural and physical persons. I think the role of the legislator, the role of the Parliament, is that, in addition to economic motives, it must also have social motives and protection of the weaker one in the competition, especially those that are accessing contracts so-called. join general rules such as card operations and access to general banking rules. I think this law should be more stringent and more precise in sanctioning the calculation of interest in the card business of banks. This would enable us to carry out our duties as a Parliament in a social sense but also enable me to say the fairer system financially. In the SDP Club, while assessing this law as a step towards a fairer method of calculating interest and at least a legal obligation for all participants in the financial market of the Republic of Croatia to stick to the method prescribed by this law, I hope that an independent body will, on the basis of very important economic indicators, be able to establish fair, fair and economically justified the heights of the tight interest, and from that point of view, the SDP Club will support the adoption of this law, noting that we expect the full interest law to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13861	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13862	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The HSP Club asked the Government to regulate this matter by a new law and therefore we are glad that the Government responded immediately and quickly to the request of the HSP Club and sent this law into the procedure. But here, first of all, we need to look at the situation in which Croatian citizens are present. We know for ourselves that the main reason for giving authentic interpretation was the case of a very powerful bank that came into the situation that it was applied to the method of interest and interest that it treats Croatian citizens. In Croatia today, we have two methods of interest. One method of interest is with broken fingers. It's a case of Slavonski Brod and a mob shootout. Another method is the method of legal interest at the expense of Croatian citizens, such as today's FINA and what banks and savings banks do. Therefore, it is obvious that the rule of law does not work because if the state had acted, there would be no case of what they are in Slavonski Brod, nor would there be cases that have been carried out here today, which is that the maximum amount of interest the banks can make is 15%, and yet they account for tight interest at 18% and 30%, and interestingly all this goes through in the executive procedures. Why he's going through the executive procedures and we've heard for ourselves and we know how the execution is done. Namely, we know ourselves and we are the first on behalf of the club HSPa was the first to say that many Croatian citizens called the alleged debt from the kuna even though there was no evidence in the executive procedure in a way that was run out of their property. There are also a lot of cases to issue bills from and from municipal companies, owned by municipalities and cities, and it goes on purpose and no one knows, and it is not checked that there is such a debt leg being carried out, and in this way the interest rate has reached that the people were left without property because of one kuna. And now what are the achievements of this law. Legally, they'll do something and it's in the future they won't be able to borrow and interest in the way banks do, savings and any other indiscretions dealing with lending. But we are left with the unresolved question, and this is the issue of the performance that has already taken place on account of many Croatian citizens and who have left without the property. the achievement of that authentic interpretation will be given because we know that authentic interpretation has only been within 5 years, and the question is we have seen both the views and the judges of the trade court, and other courts as well as how and how it will be possible in such cases to protect citizens. So the situation isn't that simple. And let's not talk about any cases that have already been completed and that have run out of property. We therefore enter one situation when we know that citizens are currently in charge of more than 50 billion kunas, why they are in charge, because their monthly income for mere survival is not even two-thirds of their expenditures. It's the only alternative for the citizens to be in debt, and then they're just going into the heights of the interest, the lenders, and the banking machine that's going to take it all away from them. On the other hand, we also know the fact that over 87% of foreign-owned banks, which is with those bank packages, are not only banks that came into foreign ownership, but also different hotels, businesses, or commercial companies and everything else. So that's how the banks are through finely occupied and have a huge monopoly on the Croatian market. Therefore, because the rights of the state bank had been detained if there had been other banks, the state, so the government could glare in the right way already in the earlier stages to allow such interest rates to be made to citizens. But now we've come into a situation where, and what's in this law, the question is whether what's essentially written in the media and what's planned is that the contractual interest is about 8% and that the tightening interest is about 10%. It's hard to expect, why, because banks have become lobbys for themselves, and so will this interest-finding committee who will sit will be bankers. And now we come to that interesting legal situation, for all cases it means both the contractual interest and the tight interest, and for this interest on more paid public revenues, makes a decision or regulation7u Government on a proposal so-called. The interest committee. Now, how are we going to react? Whether the government, not exactly, is legally resolved, will the government always have to listen to what they are proposing. That doesn't stand in there, he says, a recommendation. Thus, the government has already automatically tied its hands in terms of protecting the interests of Croatian citizens. But even if the government did manage to be the level of the contract interest 8%, it tightened the interest 10% which I don't believe and we believe the HSPA club bankers have other options. We know for ourselves what opportunities they have. That they will determine various fees and raise these fees to loan amounts, a variety of giro charges, current accounts will raise deposits and there is no fear that bankers will succeed without their already planned income. When we talk about variations to get into the European Union and all other things, which is why these same bankers don't behave in Croatia in the way they behave in the countries from which they come, which is why they do not export loans to residential, post-traumatic, otherwise different with interest rates as they are in the countries from which all these banks come. Therefore, I am not sure that everything will work out in a way that should be resolved, the worst thing is that and here I would advocate that we from the HSP Club that this law has a sound effect on all those interest rates against people ordinary citizens. The normal minister immediately frowns and knows that he will not be able to do it, and that is difficult for him, and that is what the Croatian people expect, and that is the only way to fulfill the HSPe. Therefore, the situation is clear, we will support this law, due to the fact that there are no such situations in the future, but I say there remains an unresolved question that people have lost everything, that we are fed in orphanages. That they stayed on the road and at the same time denied the constitutionality assessment regarding the latest auto-tent interpretation. So we're going to vote partly satisfied and we won't be satisfied until the rule of law works. Until a case of finger-breaking is solved, and a case of interest-stamping is resolved by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13863	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Ruka Rojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13864	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and coelge representatives. And we at the HSS will support the bill. But we can't take the impression that this law is actually the result of the affair that you've all been talking about, and not the people who are from the very decree of this law that's been worth it so far, were the most abolished. Here we have heard stories about the fates of people who, because of the number of thousands of euros, have actually ended up as poor people whose mortgages are on whose values, banking and large capital he put his paws on and actually freed them from their property. If the law was motivated by this law motivated by these reasons, then they would be much happier, then it would have been passed many years earlier, and not now that it is in some way in the function of protecting large capital. I think that, first of all, we people's representatives of the Croatian Parliament must worry about the total and our citizens first and only about the large capital that is certainly to blame that this law has not been passed so far. Because no one can justify it to me, and no one can explain why the law that we have taken into account on the bill of comfort of interest, which so unscrupulously raises interest on interest, on the main, and thus brings debts of a few hundred euros, a few thousand euros at the sums of a few tens or hundreds of thousands of euros or even millions of amounts that certainly could not be in the interest of anyone, and at least of the ordinary Croatian man who lives and works from his own and lives from his work. What I'm saying is that those who were involved in the banking system that created this country's financial system knew well that the Croatian man didn't have too much money in his pocket. But there's a lot of I9mm, there's a lot of property, and to survive, and that daily life could be condemned to go to these and such institutions and without conditionality actually sign a death sentence to itself because by taking a few thousand euros, he actually questioned his existence and his life. And that's what's good to get rid of. And it's good to do it with this law and to do it this way even now that it's quite late, that topic is taken and solved. So this law, as we know, solves the tight interest that has been calculated according to the comfort method so far and actually produced these effects that I was talking about. Contract interest is also resolved. I know that with banking institutions, this provision will cause a great deal of doubt, which is why our interpretation that we have given about... a month on Article 3(1). The law on tightened interest, caused great and tumultuous spirits in banking circles. I know that this may be part of a collision and in some contractual relationship between the two business partners, but I certainly support the idea that these institutions and all those institutions dealing with the banking and financial systems must respect the fact that in their dominant states they are dealing with interest at 2, 3, and even a few... even a dozen percent less than in our country where they have their own exposures and their branches. That's inadmissible. In fact, we have to limit the maximum amount of agreed interest to do business and to allow our citizens to live in accordance with their real opportunities and in line with all the way the whole world lives. When it comes to tight interest there is quite clear, I think everyone already accepts it, that the comfortable way of accounting is not the way that is fair, that it is necessary to limit these interest rates and the simple proportional method of calculating so that actually the believer of the one who gives the money is somehow protected enough that the money does not fail, and that the one who is the user of such money would not be exposed to actually a great tragedy. The interest on more paid public revenues is also good that they are resolved by this law, because we heard last time in the Assembly some examples of individuals who deliberately stayed in debt to individual institutions in order to be far higher after a decade or a few years and thus came up with undeserved funds that were far greater than those who were at the first moment as they were. I would point out here that we must take good account of the situation in our banking system when this law is passed. It is known to all of us that it is 90 per cent foreign citizens' ownership in the banking system of Croatia and that, in fact, the enormous profits generated by these financial institutions are largely transferred to their countries of origin. In this way they directly influence the social gross product, pay balance and create negative effects. It is no wonder that they transfer their profits to their own countries, but it would be far better for Croatia to have such companies and such financial institutions in other countries so that it can do the same then we could in some way offset the negative effects that such large profits, which are undoubtedly due to large interest rates, enormous interest rates which in the last few, in the last ten years were in Croatia, actually caused by this situation. And it should be said that unfortunately neither domestic financial institutions are any better because part of the system and they were hunting in the blurry and they used this tragedy that Croatia actually had in terms of its banking sector and they participated in the poverty and in the humiliation of the Croatian man. That's why the law like this came in handy. This is the law we in the HSS will support. The Committee to be formed and to be the expert body of the Government, I think it should consider whether, apart from representatives of the Ministry of Finance, representatives of the Croatian National Bank, representatives of the association of financial institutions, representatives of consumers, whether any other institutions, I see that the Committee on Finance has proposed the Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Employers, this body should indeed draw closer to the majority of the users of these funds in order to be able to make such decisions fully responsible so that the interest that will be prescribed, or from that committee, would not be uncoordinated and would not be a reflection of the real situation and needs and financial stability of Croatia and the economic activities of Croatia. This is certainly a large role for this committee, which must be fully responsible for making solutions related to the level of tight interest, the level of agreed interest and the public income of the unpaid which are also part of these laws. If this committee is drawn up and there are no dilemmas spoken of by counterpart Kovacevic, I think that this law will still get the effects that we all expect, that it will bring order into the financial system of Croatia, in the banking sector and that it will in some way set real relations that will benefit the Croatian economies, Croatian banking institutions and, above all, Croatian citizens. In that desire and in that intention we support the bill if, of course, it is done in this way that I have spoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13865	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljenović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13866	The esteemed colleague said of the reasons for the adoption of this law: Says the basic motive for passing laws by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in the interest of protecting large capital. It's just not true. The motive for the adoption of this law by the government, the proposed law by the Republic of Croatia, is something quite different, and in the part of the debate, especially in the end, the honourable representative spoke of it. So the introduction of order in one area, the area of interest accounting, regardless of what they say about tight or contractual interest, and what they will certainly give their positive effects in this financial area, not only as far as you have said big capital but also those ordinary small citizens who will borrow credit regardless of which financial institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13867	Thank you very much. That's such a small opinion. Here's Mr. Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13868	I may have been referring to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I'd like to really, really, really take it the wrong way. The existing law, so far the law has been in place exactly what you are, this law solves it and I agree with you absolutely. No, no. Sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13869	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing ten minutes straight. Next, Mr. Representative Zeljko Nenadić. He's giving up. Thank you. Mr. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13870	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. This really is one good law and this is one really good measure that this government is proposing. If that law had been passed before, and it was a pity that it had not been passed before 2000, many of our companies would have probably survived and would have continued to do business, many individuals would have kept their property and indeed the situation we had before the law was passed was disastrous. There were a lot of speeches, and there were a lot of words about how the legally tightened interest was calculated. It was indeed accounted for in a way that every day the principal was credited to interest, the chief of interest was re-counted for on such a fixed basis, and it was particularly tragic that the principal of interest was attributed year after year. This law has a much more correct accounting ratio, and I don't think there are any ambiguities anymore, but it's precisely prescribed by law and formula by which the legal tightening interest is calculated. and that this will certainly lead to a single order on our market and that actually the believers will, through a tight interest, protect their claims, and not as it has been, in fact, that by virtue of the legal tightening of interest, someone is rich, it's quite the opposite sense. And I wouldn't repeat everything that the predecessors said before me, and I'm especially glad that here we are, in this assembly of Parliament, going to support this law, and Mr. Minister, congratulations, this is really a very high-quality law that will put in order and that we had it before, and the picture of our internal debt would be completely different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13871	Thank you. ... Article 207 timed out for debate of 10 minutes. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] It's Ms. Nevenka Medenić's turn. She's gone, she's losing her right. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13872	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, it is necessary to welcome the intensities regardless of what was motivated by the applicant, but certainly if the objective is achieved, and the aim should be this bill, how to prevent interest rates. However, it has already been warned here and I think that the applicant should listen to these remarks, because it is not possible only by this measure, i.e. by this proposal of the law to make it true. Although this law is necessary, I think it suffers certain improvements. It has already been warned of a serious failure to comply with a certain provision of the Law on Mandatory Relations. We, as legislators, must take into account the competitiveness of the legal system. Because in such a case, and it is not a rare phenomenon, if the problem is not seen, if all norms do not agree, it can cause even greater, even greater indiscipline, even more uncertainty, and I think that legal certainty is something that we all need so much and something that we all need to keep in mind that it improves rather than reverses. I will also warn here, and it has also been distracted, but not from that aspect, to the provision of Article 233 of our existing Penal Code which speaks of the loan agreement, and the aim is precisely this bill to prevent interest, interest. So, if the promoter has serious intentions, then he should have taken great care of it, unfortunately it was rejected, but the government still rejected, the SDP Club proposal, which we also requested in the paper in this proposal to increase the prison sentence, prevented penalties for the interest agreement. However, it was rejected. The government should seriously consider, therefore, that in its proposal, the final proposal for the amendment, these novels take account of what the SDP Club also talked about. Because if he really means it. The suspended sentence is here in the existing law fine or prison sentence for up to a year. Up to a year means, in practice, almost 100% of the cases, especially if it's a primary perpetrator, it's going to be some kind of mild conditional conviction. Because that, it seems, is one of the mildest crimes that has been prevented so far, and that's what we at the SDP Club have proposed to change, so if the government really means serious about preventing interest rates and taking care of this. So, also on compliance with the Law on Mandatory Relations and with the Amendment to the Penal Code. However, I don't think that citizens should be led astray, that there is now no danger of any sinister interest, that they may behave automatically. First of all, there might be no burning to remind ourselves of the causes themselves. Namely, the causes are ignored here, and what took place, so the payment of interest contractual or tight regardless of how they are accounted for, are the result of a difficult situation that Croatia caught in the 1990s when first the state stopped paying, i.e. it became the first messy payers. This had inconceivable consequences both in the economy and in the citizens when everyone simply began to owe everyone. So these were the sources of the crisis, and then, as a consequence, came this big problem that went down on the citizens themselves. So, something that concerns us, which should also be said on this occasion, which should also be taken seriously, that in the period 2000 to 2003, we are leading this to statistical reports in cases where the state is being sued, so the number has been growing, so in that period, the percentage of which the state is being sued in the period of the coalition government, and the state on the other hand is increasing its activity to take care of where it is concerned and where it is obliged to take care of its fiscous, i.e. being sad and taking care of its interests. It concerns the fact that the country has become again, i.e. starting with the old practice that it has already begun to owe, so the defaults have already been around 180 days. That's what the state needs to take care of. Not only because such cases are then handed down to the judiciary, but also because it has large and serious repercusions to business, civil morality in general. So this is one of the measures that needs to get results. In this sense, to strengthen financial discipline, but simply in the interest and legal certainty and to respect the principle of legality. However, the bill suffers certain serious shortcomings, i.e. leaving a doubt, where the question arises, will this bill also achieve this? So, speaking in that name exactly to improve the text of the law, and not to mince this essentially good intensity and a good proposal, but that out of that good intensity wouldn't come in essence, so as not to get those results that the government has intended, we owe attention to that and to draw attention. First of all, there was talk here about the way, so what the bill and solves, I would draw attention especially to this article 5 on contractual interest, which, therefore, is the same as this rate, as when it comes to tight interest, brings the government but at the recommendation of the interest rate committee. So the question is, seriously, whether this recommendation, as soon as it is recommended by the text itself, would follow that it is not binding. So, it should clear up such a situation, because otherwise there are a lot of laws that talk about recommendations on opinion, and then in practice, you really don't know if that opinion, whether that recommendation binds or does not commit it. The interest rate committee has a big doubt, so how much will that rate be, since it is indeed as it is already seen here when it is spoken on behalf of the Club, there are representatives of the Ministry of Finance of the State, the Croatian National Bank and associations of financial institutions, and ultimately only spend. So will spending with that one vote be able to overcome one financial monopoly after all. To remind ourselves that, that the banks have concluded an agreement to improve the market, however unfortunately, this problem is related, it is very discriminatory what was wanted to achieve, whether this meant essentially closing the market and achieving their monopolies position. There is also a threat, therefore, that one measure should be found there, and also how much of that interest, how much that rate can be, so that it would not destimulate or that banks would not exactly be looking for their own profits, which they are making at the very best interest rate as the credit price, are just calculating drastic fees at both the same time and the giro account, in the case of the current account or significantly increasing deposits or simply giving up loans which would not have been, which in any case would not have been good. It was also noted that, here, it was mentioned why it had not been passed before, that although the law could be interpreted clearly because it was possible to come to this proposal because, in the end, the tax administration and did not act in this way, in such a way as the banks did, that many people unfortunately took a turn in black which led to personal bankruptcy and, on the other hand, when they were debtors or the state when they were in debt, they did not complain in this manner of accounting. Just let me have another sentence, too. In this famous interpretation brought by the Croatian Parliament, it was told to the people that only one part of the truth was told to the citizens, but what with the other part of the truth that millions of cases would be deposited to our courts and that the state would now have the right to claim because it was the greatest debtor, again to seek those miscalculated tight interest rates.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13873	I thank Mrs. Representatives. Correction of an incorrect quote we have two. One is Ivana, Mrs Ivana Sucec-Thrakostane. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13874	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Zassica was quite incorrect, tendingly and very casually stating that the state is now about 180 days late, which is 6 months with its obligations, so it would be true and very much so to say scientificly correct. So with the exact data to back it up where, who is six months behind because he's getting there, and of course by comparing it with the 2000 to 2003 period when it was like everything was great that now it's quite different which is not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13875	Well, it's not exactly, correcting that incorrect assumption. Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13876	... Article 209, Mr Vice-President, this has already been common and this is already escalating that the HDZ ranks do not dare to put replicas but use or abuse the Institute to correct incorrect allegations so that we here from the SDP Club are particularly relevant to us, we cannot respond to the replica. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please make sure, in that sense, that the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are respected on all MPs equally. ... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13877	Thank you very much. I didn't quite notice that only from one party is misusing the correction of the incorrect quote that you say but more than that, we have this phenomenon in general, so here I don't know if Mrs. Ivana will now correct it. If he's going to make it right, then let him say what article he's doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13878	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am prevented from eating the Rules of Procedure in this article to correct the incorrect allegations. I'm re-correcting 180-day delay in the country's obligations is not correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13879	Thank you very much. There's one more correction to an incorrect quote. Mr Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13880	Now I'm really going to try to be precise and not think it's an opinion. So, I quote, this is literally said: “The state has again started with the old practice of liquidity and non-payment.” It’s simply not true and when it’s said in such flat-rate reviews, I think they’re too difficult, and they’re constantly going through some discussions, so that it’s at least correct to back it up with the relevant, with the relevant specific data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13881	Also the claim, as well as the claim, but here we have an immediate violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13882	Your Honor, Mr. President, the violation of Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure is because the honourable representative did not correct the incorrect assumption but corrects my exact claim by his own false precept. So not only is he abuser but he's telling the truth. Let him replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13883	Thank you very much. I hope that after many years we have sharpened that sense of measure, which is a correction, which is not, and if we are not, then we will sharpen it for the next 3 years. Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker spoke.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13884	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. So allow me a few words on behalf of the proposer. First of all, the proposal does not send this Act any delusion to Croatian citizens. I would like to tell all those who are criticising this Law if they had the opportunity to change the Law on tight interest but lacked political courage, political wisdom to do so. The other thing is to blame only banks for the calculation of tight interest. You know that the biggest family business tragedies were experienced by Croatian citizens on the basis of court rulings, and here the tight interest accounts for FINA. According to this, in 1996, the latest "Strengthen interest rate" law was adopted in the National Journal 28 and said the rate is 15%, and the article said that interest for a period of less than a year is determined by the application of the comfortable way of calculating. And that there was political courage and wisdom that, in 2000, if the Government had not been able to do so before, the Law on tightened interest had been amended, surely that a lot of money would have been spent on both Croatian citizens and Croatian businesses, as well as at the time of the adoption of the Law on Appropriations, and unpaid claims could also be considered that the existing Law on tight interest is unfair. So the Government of this Law simply wants to bring this one into order and so to say part of the financial discipline with the fact that I have to say that at this moment Croatia and the whole world are in a phase of historically low interest rates. They've never been this low in history, and it's probably not going to be any time soon. There will come a time when interest rates will rise and I think it would be far better if in this debate today we turned to these future times, not to say about what happened. But what's controversial about the old law was that it didn't define what was going on up to a year ago. After a year. The comfortable way of calculating interest at the end of the year becomes neutral. It is the same effect, therefore, as regards interest and proportional and comfortable modes, however, the negative effect of the comfortable way of calculating interest occurs after a year. Also, the comfort rate of interest is generally applied when more significant inflation over the year is from a simple reason to protect the principal, because even the equivalent rate is not high enough to prevent the reduction of the principal in inflation conditions. BUT what I'd like to say here again and again is the untrue fact that in the state there is indifference. It is totally untrue that the state's commitments are met, but it is true that the former government has covered up 1.8% of the deficit, that the RS deficit last year was 6.3%. That there were over six billion unbeached accounts left. So these unpaid bills probably mean that you haven't paid for 6 months, because this government hasn't been in power for 6 months yet, but 5 months and 20 days, so we haven't had 180 days in power to get into a situation where we don't pay the commitment for more than 180 days. It's essential mathematics. Therefore, if the remaining defaulted liabilities remained liabilities during the coalition wave. So I repeat this government does not conceal the deficit this government wants to introduce order and transparency into finance. One of the steps is among other things the Law on tight interest rates, so it will be very interesting to look at one day when it enters Finn as well as how interest has been calculated primarily on the basis of court rulings and how much family and business trauma has caused in Croatia. Why, at the time when the law was passed on and the outstanding claims did not go parallel to the amendment of the laws on tightened interest, why no report was submitted to this Parliament which was an effect and which were the lucky ones who had the opportunity to negotiate with the state about the collection of the dues and outstanding claims, and to whom these requests were written off. So these are all the questions that are being opened, but I say this government has had the political wisdom and courage to propose this law and the normal thing that no law is a sacred letter that can be fixed, and I am expected, both through amendments and this that parliamentary representatives may be overcoming a more correct solution. As for Article 5, the government has so far made a decision on the amount of interest without recommendations. And now in this body, we have put in practice all those who are interested, that they have the opportunity to express their interests to present their interests, and that they are in some way involved in creating interest rates. And normally, at the recommendation of that committee, the government will make a decision on the level of interest rates. So, I repeat, the government pays all its obligations, and it's not true that we don't pay our commitments for more than 180 days. 'Cause we're not even 180 days away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13885	I would like to thank Mr. Prime Minister Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, our session is the presence of the National Council and the National Assembly from the Slovak Republic at the head of Mr. Paul Kruskovski, and we welcome them warmly and warmly. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. [[Applause]] First Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13886	Mr. President, this is not exactly what Mr. Minister has stated, that the state is paying all its obligations because it is already late on payments. After all, the media wrote about it, and the citizens warn us about it. So it's the same thing again. He's late for severances, and he's late for dealings that the state is paying as donations. So, different social givings, he's late for that, too. Take a look. And it's not exactly that we've left that deficit that you're repeating again so there's always a saving deficit like a quo when there's no arguments. And the unpaid bills we left behind. So, there are other bills that haven't even arrived for payment yet, and we haven't paid the bills in advance as you did from 90 to 2000, and you haven't paid anyone at all, so these people have had to sue for 10 years and sue for it, so now these commitments have grown hugely for the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13887	It can be considered a statement of view. The one you used to complain about. The others. Now the correction of Mrs Marija Lugaric's non-tactic quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13888	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The imprecise allegations by Minister Shuker that the government hid the actual amount of deficits two weeks ago have passed reports on the annual calculation of the state budget for 2003, where management has submitted this report to the 5.1% deficit. And what the minister's motivation is that he's speaking differently now, that in Washington he's saying otherwise, that he's changing his attitude, we can only assume that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13889	This is also an expression of opinion. So I ask that you be tolerated in mutual terms when the amount of opinion is taken. Or that I really can't accept such opinions. But then we should all agree to change the criteria. Thank you very much. And Mr. Minister, I hope to express his opinion on this in the final address of the Parliament. Thank you very much. Now he has a word for 10 minutes, Mr. Prostnik Tomljenović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13890	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here, let me intro say a few words about interest first, so that comes from the Greek word, which means profit, profit. And it's actually the most reward paid for using other people's replaceable moving things. The interest and especially tight is only the lawfully assumed amount of compensation the believer is entitled to because the debtor used his money. The above interest also has different legal economic purposes which may be the most significant of the following three, so the first function of acquiring benefits through capital, secondly, the function of encouraging debtors to meet their obligation in due time, where interest also has a criminal function as a sanction to the debtor if they are late in fulfilling their obligations. And thirdly, the fee function for using a certain amount of other people's money that is given in terms of the same species in this case money for money. Unlike natural fruits, interest is a civil legal fruit, so fructose civilians, interest does not come from the nature of things, but from the right. However, there is another distinction criterion, which is consistent with the criteria for the creation of a payment obligation, two types of interest should be legally distinguished, noting that both are worked out in this proposed law. So credit interest, ondos an contractual or agreed interest. However, tight interest only one form of legal interest, then or they are objective consequences of the debt delay, and guilt for delay should not be sought or proved, they run according to the law itself. It is not even allowed to prove that the believer suffered less damage than that prescribed by the provision on the rate of the tightened interest. The purpose is to tighten interest to encourage the debtor to meet his obligations in due time, and thus the interest is also spread, rather than just the interest of certain creditors. The creditor is entitled to a tight interest, regardless of whether he has suffered any damage due to the late due to the debtors, therefore the tightening interest is called even more and of course moratoric interest. As regards contractual interest, it should be pointed out that the mandatory relationship law does not directly determine what the term contractual interest means, but in the literature, the contractual interest is defined as the contractual agreed amount of compensation for the use of other people's money. The law, however, defines the rate of contractual interest between individuals in Article 399. The Law on Mandatory Relations in such a way that it cannot be higher than the interest rate paid for savings by sight instead of fulfilling. It is no doubt that the legislator is not only authorised to regulate the highest rate of contractual interest but he is also in the best position to monitor economic flows and this should be highlighted, namely, always applicable or the obligation to apply the principle of limitation of the level of the contractual interest. For the safety and efficiency of judicial protection and legal certainty of legal participants, it would not be a favourable solution to determine in each individual case whether a green contract is involved. In particular, the Commission considers that the aid granted by the State is compatible with the internal market in the form of State aid. The Law on Mandatory Relations was nothing when someone using the state of emergency or the difficult material condition of another’s lack of experience, greed, or addiction contracts for themselves or for some third benefit which is obviously disproportionate to what he gave or did or committed to giving or doing. This is the conclusion of the case law. For example, the ruling of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia of 21 October 2003, which discusses actually a legal position, that when no specific law has been passed to determine the highest contractual interest rate between other persons and not between individuals, it is in each case necessary to assess whether the rate of contractual interest has the elements of the green contract. And as far as the anatocism is concerned, we've had opportunities here today and here in quality, and I think of it as something to hear, so we're counting interest on interest. It should be pointed out that Article 400 is. The Mandatory Relations Act stipulates that a zero provision of a contract which provides for interest when it comes to payment will be due if it is not paid. However, the ban on the negotiation of a provision stipulating that when interest is paid, interest will start if it is not paid, does not apply to the credit operations of banks and other banking organisations. And allow me just a few more sentences regarding the specific provisions of the proposed interest law. Therefore, the proposed interest law firstly regulates the calculation and payment of tight interest when the debtor is late in fulfilling the monetary obligations, but the calculation of the tight interest is carried out in a proportionate manner, so without attributing interest to the principal at the end of the accounting period. Therefore, Article 3 is governed by the application of a single interest account when calculating a tight interest. Therefore, there is no possibility of attributing interest to the principal at the end of the accounting period, and given the fact that a specific calculation formula is given is fully avoided the possibility of a different interpretation of the method of calculation of the tight interest. As regards the contractual interest, it cannot be agreed by virtue of Article 6 of the Law at a rate higher than the tightening interest rate prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia regulation, which it lays down on the recommendation of the Committee on the establishment of interest rates. The adoption of this law would remove the possibility of different behaviours related to the calculation of tight interest because the law would unilaterally regulate the tightening of interest by a proportionate method, unlike a comfortable method, so without attributing interest at the end of the accounting period. There is therefore the basic problem which this law solves, because the application of a comfortable interest rate in a complex interest account is now in practice applied to the rule that the tightening interest is calculated by a comfortable interest rate at the end of the accounting period and, at any rate, less than a year, is attributed to the principal and is increased by this newly formed principal containing in itself the amount of the tightened interest from the previous period and the new tightened interest is calculated on the principal in the next period. During the period of the multi-annual calculation of the tight interest is therefore increased exponentially, which leads to an absurd and sacracial situation that the accumulated interest amount exceeds the principal's height, which leads to so-called. The absurdity of a Kuna. For example, one bank on the rest of the debt itself and indeed one kuna per approved credit to a natural person over a period of years accounted for a tight interest 10 thousand times the amount of that one kuna. As regards the most permitted rate of contractual interest, the provisions of Articles 4 and 5 of the Law have been precisely defined that no interest per maturity can be agreed at more than the rate of the tightened interest, i.e. prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What do you say to the conclusion? The practice so far has indeed been unsustainable. Some believers were in a position to negotiate an interest rate and 1% a day, especially some savings-credit cooperatives, which led to the difficult position of the gullible debtor, and the case law in the judgments on interest rates almost does not exist. This proposal prevents the so-called interest rate and introduction of financial discipline on the market. And only two more sentences. Therefore, the legislative proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is an extremely high-quality solution in the way of calculating interest, which leads to clarity, accuracy of legal certainty of all parties to legal relations and removes numerous anomalies that have occurred in legal practice, and when this is added that this regulation is fully and in line with the legal assets of the European Union, the legal acts of the Council of Europe, the conclusion is imposed in itself, so this law in accordance with Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament should be adopted as an exceptional quality solution in an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13891	Thank you very much. Vice-President and representative Mr. Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13892	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say immediately that the Institute of tightening interest as the Institute of Financial Rights practically began to emerge and began to apply how the state existed increasingly often the believer was directly through unpaid incomes based on taxes, cuts and contributions, either indirectly through the formation of so-called. State banks, i.e. banks in state ownership through this history and in fact it is about an institute that prescribes actually punishment when a believer, the debtor is unable to return the principal and pay the price of using the principal or interest on time or in time, then it is still prescribed and tightened interest as a specific penalty and in this situation it is actually a question of a constant moral and legal relationship between these contract entities actually when the penalty is justified, and when it is in a situation to try to protect a debtor who is potentially in need, who is unable to settle his obligations for other justified reasons etc. And we're here all the time. That's number one. Number two. It is a very serious issue about tight interest as penalties at a time when it applies or when more and more actually all banks and financial institutions become private property. I personally think that the time has come and it is a shame that we are not discussing this law in two readings, but we are discussing it by an urgent procedure among other things and because the call is trying to speak on one Council of Europe regulation, or trying to align this document, but it is a pity to say again that it is not discussed in two readings amongst other things and that the practical interest of the state now remains only in the segment of actually unpaid, prescribing tight interest due to unpaid incomes on the basis of cuts, taxes and contributions, because this country is becoming practically a believer. And now you're asking a serious question. Does it make sense to prescribe a tightened interest for a simple reason at all because we tax laws have prescribed specific penalties for non-fulfilment of tax obligations within and in time and in this respect the question of whether there is a need to prescribe legal interest or whether there should be an escontary interest that protects the capital sought by the state, and possibly unusually agreed interest as prescribed by the Law on Mandatory Relations, which cannot be higher than the interest rate paid in the place of meeting the savings deposits for sight? By the way, the third question is immediately raised about the opposite or conflict between the mandatory relationship law and this law, which is now proposed because it proposes that the interest rate agreed on cannot be more agreed on than the prescribed tight interest rate. Therefore, the question that the law on mandatory relations is now being raised, or this provision will be in force as a law on the leg of a specialis on which the interest may still be up to the maximum of the tightened interest prescribed by the Government. It is absolutely certain that in such a situation this issue should be considered, this Law is a shift forward and it is certainly a quality in relation to this solution that we have so far but there are still open issues that need to be addressed. The fourth thing that should also be considered is the fact that this Law does not in fact regulate a tight interest or interest, but determines the conditions under which it will be yet to be determined. Because the key parameter for determining the tightened interest is not determined, it will only be determined by the Government by prescribing the rate of tightening interest through contractual or legal interest. Namely, according to the formula for calculating the tight interest, the tight interest rate is the principal times the interest rate times the number of days or number of years depending on it divided by 100. Therefore, in such a situation, it is a very serious question, in fact, whether a regulation that is not with the legal power of the Government at all can address this issue because it is in fact a regulation of penalties on certain financial or contractual obligations between creditors and debtors, and this is quite seriously one issue which has a constitutional legal dimension to be considered in particular, namely, we, in our own time, had a legally prescribed tight interest rate above and the relative lower rate. The fifth question that is seriously raised is the question of relations when the government appears not only as a believer but also as a debtor, the government that appears or the state when it appears as a believer then applies a tight interest as well as any other believer in financial or credit business with... but at the same time when the government appears as a debtor for incomes that are more charged by citizens or legal persons then the state itself will prescribe the interest that it will pay on that amount, meaning it will not say that it is a tight interest but is another.... and now suddenly we come into a situation that we practically have two... for the same thing. The question arises whether it should at least stipulate that the State is obliged to prescribe that interest which, for example, would be on the funds or, for example, the one related to the protected capital, the interest rate related to the protection of capital plus, say, the usual agreed interest on means of vision. The fifth question that clearly and unequivocally proves to be a disagreement is actually a contradiction between Articles 9 and 10. The law. In particular, Article 9 provides for a lower penalty if a person contracts, accounts and charges a tight interest against the provisions of Article 2 of this Act than it is required if contracts, accounts or charges are charged against the provisions of Article 5 of this Act, it is an article 5 on contractual interest, and the contractual interest is actually a tightened interest. First, here instead of Article 5, we should talk about Article 4 because it should not agree on a contractual interest greater than a tight interest. And third, it should be vice versa if he commits such a violation then he should pay more punishment than when he potentially violates a tight interest. And of course the 6 questions I would like to say are the questions related to Article 11 and these are deadlines. Article 11 provides that within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act, the Government will adopt a regulation prescribed by this law or regulation which will regulate, tightened interest, regulations governing contractual interest and regulations which will regulate the prescribed interest, or which will prescribe State interest on excessively paid liabilities by debtors to the State when the State becomes ultimately in a certain way a debtor to a natural or legal person due to excess taxes, cuts and contributions. The question arises whether it is possible to perform those deadlines at all. It is also said in paragraph 2 that within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act, the Minister of Finance will appoint members of the Committee for the establishment of interest rates, and it is now impossible for the Minister to appoint board members within 30 days, the same members of the Committee and that Committee proposes to the Government the text of the regulation that should be established after an agreement has been reached between the representatives of the Ministry, the financial organisations, etc., and it is impossible to meet one and the other within the same period, it should probably be said that within 30 days of the proposal being sent to them by the Committee, which will appoint the Minister to adopt the regulations and at the same time that the Minister... probably within 15 days to appoint the Committee to prepare a proposal for a decision then it is not possible to comply with these deadlines, so it is not possible to implement these deadlines. There's something else I'd like to say that's very interesting. This is a question regardless of whether and to what extent it is motivated by a concrete case relating to the banking business of our individual banks in a situation where they have become debtors to a believer. It could have been a motive for passing this law. However, I think the time has come to definitely resolve the issue of state relations in relation to such non-relations that need to be resolved, I think that in civil society the state should behave as a civil legal entity in economic and financial and other business relations and should not use the institution of political power or legislative power to put itself in a more favourable position than possible under contractual relations. I think that it should simply break the practice of the fact that the state, through a tight interest, is making an extra profit in terms of claims where it appears as a believer in terms of natural or legal persons. I personally think it is necessary to simply tighten interest simply to consider the issue of eradicating it, and at the same time leave the agreed interest with the fact that the interest law should prescribe what is the above rate of agreed interest and, of course, specific laws on taxes, taxes, etc., which regulate the question of defeat and credit should be prescribed infringing and potential criminal liability when the believer, the debtor, does not comply with the creditor or the State's obligation to fulfil tax obligations. For this reason, I will personally support this solution because it is better than what we have today's practice but I think that at the same time we need to consider the question of when this area will have to be thoroughly explored to the end and end this relationship in one quality way which will be a practical stimulant for the expansion and negotiation of credit relations not only between banks, natural and legal persons but also relations between the state as a believer and of course all other debtors who can appear to the state and vice versa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13893	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13894	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The law has good and bad, I think it's a good law with good intensities, but it's not a key division. The key division is whether the laws apply or are essential whether they apply equally to all those concerned. I'm afraid if, on a non-emergency but super-emergency procedure, it doesn't change the Law on Mandatory Relations and those provisions that talk about the billing and the tight interest rates, and in particular the contractual interest provision that says that the complete part of the Law on Mandatory Relations does not apply to banks, I'm afraid that we'll find ourselves in a situation where at some point, depending on who gets stronger, we'll apply this law that we're going to vote this week, at another point in time applying the Law on Mandatory Relations, and some banks that will have a stronger impact will be able to charge interest twice, or interest in the next principal, some won't be able to do so. Citizens will be exposed to the self-will of controversial laws and find themselves in a situation where there is no one to stand out of their interest. Obviously, this is not a simple technical topic and the technical point to be implemented is a key political point. Namely, by determining the amount of interest, the way in which interest is determined is actually rerouted national wealth in this direction and that direction, and that's why this point is political, political, and that's why it needs to be. In fact, look clearly in the mirror and say what's been going on these years, and hope it doesn't happen in the future. Who actually acted as a real authority, i.e. directed money in your own interest and at your own expense? Are the major banking corporations, whether the lenders and the interestors or representatives of the Croatian people? It's obviously a conflict of laws that we, the Law on Mandatory Relations, have taken over from the former Yugoslavia and implementing practices. This general law does not, of course, regulate the detail of what a contract should do and how to calculate interest, releases the possibility and releases the scope of the implementation of practice. This practice seemed to me in the wrong direction, resulting in a concentration of wealth not the kind we expected in the '90s and what we had previously dreamed of. The concentration of wealth in other people's hands and in other people's hands. We got into capitalism upside down. And passed through him who barefooted the thorn, apparently, at least most of us. The government's commitment should be and I think that this House should reach such a conclusion, that as soon as possible, all other regulations that speak of this topic with a clear intensity to protect the Croatian economy and protect Croatian citizens. If this isn't done quickly, it will turn out that the intention of this law is actually to create a cover, a beautiful facade that will be called upon for some moments, and that real practice will go to those steps that it's taken so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13895	Thank you very much. Mr. Agent Ante Markov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13896	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. By setting up the financial sector and regulating relations in the financial sector several years ago, there has been a clear and new relationship in the sector, regardless of the fact that the real sector has not followed and has not been at the same level of consolidation as that of the financial sector. Such relations unquestionably gave birth to a second state in both citizenship and the public sector, both in financial institutions and they created relations that favoured the development and conukuktures of the financial sector. Of course, it also favoured creating a different situation than it was, that the borrowing of the population, and the borrowing of the economy, was simplified, that the interest rates were very acceptable, and even more acceptable today that, despite telling the fact that there was no and still no even development of the real sector, created in the Croatian financial market a solid market that worked conukturously, which, even if reading what the Croatian National Bank reported regularly in payments even though the population was, I think that a small number of countries at that rate are regularly or relatively paying their loans, their debts, that the economy is also interesting for financial institutions. The truth is, although as far as the population is concerned, it has reached the upper limit of possible borrowing and it is common, and our citizens know best how to get these loans back from their mouths, from their pockets where someone should also be dependent, some such natural right of individual citizens, whatever it is about schooling, but one fact, Croatia has become a neat financial country where they can take quality loans, but there is no other part with a lot of effort, a lot of pain and a lot of denial they return. Of course, what required the creation of such a financial market was the fact that the laws governing relations or protecting creditors above all, the Law on Exchanges, the Law on Consistency, the Law on Mortgage, the laws governing the relations of creditors were extremely positive and even in the context of judicial practice in the last few years reached a very fast instrument for which the believer, the bank either she or someone else could have charged or could have reached those assets that were the subject of the dispute. The banking, or financial sector is despite the fact that it itself generated bad relations especially in the early 1990s when practically there was a fact that a whole economy which was also the founder of a bank either in a blockade or in a situation or in bankruptcy, mostly not in business activity, while banks came out even stronger, even richer themselves they dragged a huge part of the property, whether through fiduciary, either through other forms, and practically today it is still worth the fact that the financial sector controls the largest number of certain companies that have an affirmative market or monetary character above all in the tourist industry, but also in some other interesting spheres. Therefore, favouring the creditors created a solid financial market and enabled borrowing. It is clear that in the second phase of this reform, there is a fact that the knife has two blades, so one of the blades has recently been gripped by those who thought it was for them, that they are untouchable from it. Well, when they got caught by that blade, then they started to discuss the overall role and whether it was necessary to protect the other parties, which is consumer protection, consumer protection. It is precisely on the line and consumer protection, and now it has proved to be equally important for those who are crediting and for those who are taking credit. It is precisely because it is necessary not to prescribe administrative adjustment of interest relations were they tightened or agreed, but because it is important to create a protective social character. I am looking at this very law through a protective and social aspect that he wants to win. He must not be regulatory or administrative. Because, as is the case in every market, there is a possible conukure, supply and consumption ratio, even certain rules that are prescribed not explicitly by this law. Therefore, I want to support this protective and social character that can be needed by anyone, one who is now on the side of the believer as well as one who is on the side of the debtor tomorrow. As a result, the regulation of these relations and the character of this law which wants to regulate tight contractual interest as well as to regulate revenues is publicly positive, welcome and would indeed agree with colleagues who have said that the Law on Mandatory Relations should be aligned with this bill so that it does not cause doubt or misread, although I am convinced that just the last practice that is in its own way, I will not say it incentivises the speed of adoption of this law but, in any case, directs the overall public action and thinking, and that it does not correspond to anything that does not belong to it because sooner or later and this is visible from these latest events, it can be returned as a boomerang. Therefore, the adjustment of relations in the financial sector is necessary and desirable and I believe that this law will give a good incentive and one that I have cited at the beginning and the protective and social character and in this way I am experiencing it and I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13897	Thank you. This debate has ended with regard to the registered representatives. Now, in the end, Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker will address the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13898	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Let me just have a few words at the end. I must say that after eight years, this law is passed because the last law, as I said, was passed in 1996 and be sure because of what was heard today in the debate that it was necessary to achieve a large general social so as to say consensus and a very broad public debate before such a text of the law finally was proposed to the Government for adoption and the Government proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt it. And I am aware of perhaps one contradiction between this law and the Law on Mandatory Relations, but at this point a working group is formed to go on to amend this Law on Mandatory Relations, as well as what is a representative, the Honorable Representative Arlovic said about these deadlines of the Government, etc. By then, the Law on Mandatory Relations will probably be amended, so as the full application of the implementation of this law begins, it will be in accordance with the Law on Mandatory Relations. I'd like to thank everyone for the debate. It is obvious that in the future, as well as developing the financial market in Croatia, this law may experience some more changes, but I think that what was the point of this law, which is that all are equal and equal in the calculation of the tight interest that we have achieved, and I am glad that all clubs and all representatives in the individual debate have agreed to support such a bill. Since the amendments we have received, the Government has proposed two amendments, these other proposals are nomotechnical, so no amendment structurally changes the law and I would also like to say that we also accept the amendment of the Committee on Finance which proposes that this Committee on Interests be extended with representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. And so, we accept that amendment and I'm sorry that again in one law, unfortunately, the debate has started in one course that has nothing to do with this law, but I, as Minister of Finance, and as a representative of the government here, must repeat it again. I never made a statement that the deficit in Croatia is 5.1%. What some respected SDP representatives are talking about is the product of their 2003 bookkeeping. As finance minister, I neither wanted nor wanted to allow myself to make technical changes to their accounting after the end of the financial year, but it is very interesting that they initially claimed that the deficit was 4.5%, so they eventually met with 5.1 but the deficit of the Republic of Croatia was definitely in 2003 6.3% and this is the only official data, this is all other politics based on some things that are not true. And second of all, I have to say, it's totally untrue that the state doesn't settle its obligations. That's not true. All the government's obligations settle in time and I'd say this government isn't in power for 180 days to be able to talk about not meeting the obligations within 180 days. If it's said that they don't comply within 180 days, then it's just a confirmation of what I'm talking about a 6.3% deficit because these are obligations that remain from the former government because if you add up from 23.12. to today it's 16.6. you'll see that you don't have 180 days. So it's basic mathematics. Thanks again to everyone who participated in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13899	Thank you. We will vote on amendments and the law when the conditions are met. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13900	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work on the agenda for the vote. Please, Agent Lesar, come in. Thank you very much. We'll establish. I am also the chairman of the Parliament and a few days before publicly announce what points are on the agenda. But we'll figure it out. We are going to the Final Proposal of the Law on interest, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. Number 115. The debate on the text of the law is over. We do, the MPs have a plate of amendments. I ask the Secretary of State of State of the Ministry of Finance, Ms. Marina Dalic, to be shown about the amendments. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13902	It's an amendment to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13903	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment of the 2nd Representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13904	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13905	Thank you. There are no MPs. The vote. Who is this amendment number two that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 3 is also the same representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13906	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13907	Since there are no MPs, the vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 4 becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment of 5th Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13908	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13909	Same vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 6. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13910	The Proposer accepts this amendment to Article 6 if the Croatian Parliament allows the addition of amendments in a way that is in line with the words "Croatian National Bank" and adds the words "Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Employers' Association".
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13911	An explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13912	The explanation is that paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 6 are essentially referenced to the same thing, so we suggest that they then refer to the Committee for the Determination of Interest Rates. The amendment intervenes in the institutions presented in the Committee, and therefore we propose that the Committee's membership be equally regulated in both paragraphs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13913	The chairman of the Shime Squirt Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13914	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13915	Thank you, accepted. So in this amended form of amendments accepted and became an integral part of the law. 7th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the CNS and of the PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13916	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13917	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13918	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, the 7th and 8th amendments are linked and speak of our understanding of this work, so the manipulation of interest above the legal level as a serious criminal act that has done a lot of evil in this country so far. That's why we suggested that such a procedure be treated not as a violation, but as a criminal act, it was a reasoning, I would ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13919	Thank you. Please vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. And the 9th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13920	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13921	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you, Secretary of State. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final proposal of the Interest Act. Who's in? Give me a sign when you've finished counting by one. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that it is unanimous with 103 votes for the adopted interest law in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13922	We move to agenda 2 and 3 respectively, I suggest that a united debate be discussed. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, second reading, P.Z. No. 29 - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties - Proposer Đurđa Adlešić, first reading, P.Z. No. 79 So, unitedly I suggest we discuss these two laws if no one objects. Is it okay with the Proposer? It's okay. So we move on to these two points of the agenda. The proposer is the first government and the second Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of these laws, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading or point 2 shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Does a representative of the government want to explain? Yeah. Mr. Secretary of State Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13923	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The purpose of this law is to regulate the prevention of conflicts between private and public interest in the exercise of public duties and the law in Article 2 of the applicable law defines what a conflict of interest is and says that it is a situation in which the private interests of officials are contrary to the public interest or where the private interest affects or may affect the impartiality of officials in the exercise of public duty. The government has assessed that such a law as is now in force does not meet the purpose of the law defined by Article 1 so it proposed amendments that we thoroughly discussed in the first reading, and here we suggest that we now also discuss in the second reading which respects the numerous comments of the MPs made in the debate so far. We aim to pass a good law in a calm atmosphere to discuss this important issue of social and political life in Croatia and that perhaps this law and the circumstances in which this law will be passed will remove the publiced thesis that the vast majority of government officials are in conflict of interest. The government holds that almost all without saying the largest majority of government officials honorably and responsibly carry out their duties and in cases that may always arise, in favour of public duty, where they are elected, but of course we want to install a mechanism that could sanction and behave differently. With this law, the government proposes to include both the President of the Republic and the Mayor of the City of Zagreb and their deputies in the circle of officials to whom the law would apply. The government wants a no-technically corrected text in the section in which the tax cards are said to be public officials, it is obvious that in writing the first text of the law there has been a mistake, and it warns and respected Vice-President of the Parliament, it is intended to be available property cards because it is a standard that we have already achieved and under which we cannot go. With regard to the current solution on the possibility of a state official receiving a gift of one average salary, the government has strong objections and requires that this change be changed radically. An official in the performance of his duties could accept only a symbolic gift if the Government's proposal is accepted. So there would be no doubt what a symbolic nature it is we have suggested that it be the highest value of up to 500 kuna. However, we do not want one, one large number of prominent citizens of Croatia, people who have accepted public duties to be excluded from any activity because we do not think it is the purpose of this law. It is possible that top experts who have accepted the conduct of their duties in the Croatian Parliament, who have accepted the conduct of their duties in the executive government, are also engaged in their profession and that this is not a conflict of interest, and I mean prominent cultural and sports workers. We therefore propose to allow the exercise of the duties of scientific, educational and educational activities, cultural and sports activities. And also that someone who deals with other activities, but if this nature of activity is not contrary to the nature of the duties he performs, it is also possible to obtain income on this basis, with these revenues being reported. In the first reading, the government wanted to completely eliminate the possibility of someone who is a shareholder being both a representative, i.e. a state official and, therefore, was prescribing, proposed that anyone who has shares in commercial societies should entrust them to another person in charge. However, we have observed the arguments from the debate that there are small shareholders who, with their small shares and small percentages in the number of shares, cannot in any way influence business or have an interest there. We therefore allow the possibility under this proposal that someone who has less than 0.5% of shares can keep it and does not have to believe it in management. Political life imposes on the subject of the role of state officials in the supervisory boards of commercial companies and tries to create a public picture that all governmental appointments which seemed illegal and that all should resign, that sentences should be imposed on the Government which appointed officials in the membership of supervisory committees and the general assembly of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. The government doesn't interpret this law that way. In law, there is an imperfect norm which is not applicable, which attributed the Parliament to the list of companies, the Government has sent a list of companies and the Government cannot ignore the fact that one of the essential elements of the exercise of government and the management of state property is owned by the Republic of Croatia, as well as the management of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia and cannot accept the interpretation of the law that at one point all commercial companies owned by the Republic of Croatia should be left without supervisory committees and congregations. Whether they are the current members of the government or former members of the government who are still in some of the companies in this position. The government proposes a formulation which would also be responsible for determining which societies are of state interest, special state interest and proposed a list of Croatian parliaments for adoption and we believe that it will be adopted. This bill allows for analogue possibility for local officials to be members of companies where the local community, the local self-government unit, has a majority share. The question has been raised about the role and organisation of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests, and there has already been a difference in the thinking of the Government and the Commission in the adoption of the budget and in the first reading of the law. We do not want to open the controversy, we remain with our opinion that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts is an extremely important body and that it must be. But we do believe that it will not have as much work as it wants to be imposed for the reason I said, which is that the vast majority of officials are not in conflict of interest, but an honorable and responsible possible conflict is resolved in favour of the public interest. We, however, want to strengthen the position of the commission, which is what we propose to ensure that non-legislative members receive a certain fee. There is no one's right to force anyone to perform their duty, to do something, to waste their time, to not be paid for it, of course, MPs are paid for it, but by the regulations governing the salaries of MPs. Furthermore, in another way, we want to strengthen the role of the commission, which is to propose the introduction of functional immunity. We believe that in one body all members must be equal even though the representatives have immunity, that they must or should also have members of the committee who are not elected from the ranks of MPs, although there are serious criticisms from the constitutional and legal aspect of immunity, whether it is just a constitutional category. But since our political life already knows two situations where immunity has been divided and past, and that is not mentioned in the Constitution, I will say only to the members of the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council, we remain with this solution until the Constitutional Court assesses otherwise. The government believes that administrative and technical tasks for the commission will be able to carry out the Parliament's professional service. The government comes from the fact that the Croatian Parliament had 2 Houses, that it had a strong and professional professional service that technically organised and supported the work of two Houses and with numerous committees. When the County House was abolished, none of the civil servants who worked in the Assembly was fired from the state service and according to our records there is sufficient technical and professional capacity of the Assembly to provide support for the work of the commission. As in the first text of the law, we propose that sanctions be raised if a state official does not deny something of his property or does not meet the property card properly, but we also do not want the commission to be converted into a court of officials, a court against whose decision has no right, legal remedy, and the Government proposes that in the case where sanctions are imposed, one of the officials is allowed to appeal to the Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia. We have opted for the Supreme Court because of the level of government officials, whose rights should be decided. We feel again that these measures will strengthen the work of the commission, but also that the commission cannot take on itself the role of exorcising corruption from society as it wants to be imposed because there is an entire judicial system, from the state's attorney's office, the police system, the USKOK, the courts, is their role above all to deal with crime, and even if it is dealt with by state officials, and we see the commission as one moral authority to warn, to assess that some behaviour would not be in line with the state's duty. Gentlemen, in order to avoid any doubt about the interpretation of the role of state officials, we propose that officials in the supervisory boards of commercial companies should be prescribed by this Act that until the Croatian Parliament has established a list of companies of special state interest, officials may be members of the Supervisory Board in companies owned by state or in which the state has a majority share, but without the right to any compensation other than the right to compensation for travel expenses. And one of the final provisions is that that state official who has not yet handed over his property card is obliged to do so with his property report within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act. Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, taking part in the work of several committees which, we have noted, has been very seriously and toleratedly debated about the resolutions of this Law, that some amendments have been adopted by consensus, and we would like today's debate to be held in a tolerated tone and that this law and this important, important segment of political life in Croatia is regulated by opportunity and consensus, i.e. in some important issues agreed by the Government, Parliament and as many MPs as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13924	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13925	I have to report for the correction of an incorrect quote in that section when it was said that the government had brought in a list of companies. The government may have brought that list, and that is exactly what it says, and HINA reported: “3. In March 2004, the government today established a list of 185 companies of special state interest whose supervisory boards could be entered by state officials." However, the Law states this: Article 11, paragraph 5, reads as follows: “Employees cannot be members of the board of directors or supervisory boards of commercial companies.” And that provision excludes only those where they are, meaning only an exception to which officials could be members of supervisory boards in state-owned companies or in which the state has a majority share, and of particular national interest. However, the list of companies of special state interest should be adopted by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government. We had that list at the 5th session on March 23rd under point 18, so we didn't discuss it. At the 6th session of April 21st, under point 22, we also had that list and did not discuss it. At this session there was this list, actually the government withdrew the proposal for the list. And out of that, not that the insinuations are that these officials are unlawfully appointed but are unlawfully appointed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13926	Thank you very much. We move on to the, uh, Proposer, Vice-President Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13927	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have two bill proposals ahead of us. One has its final form. One and the other are seeking debate and co-operation over the inaccuracies that have occurred with the fact that we know that this government proposal can only be corrected by amendments. After a representative of the government said that it was actually a technical failure of the government in the making of the law which, in fact, made my draft law then an integral part of the government, I will, however, explain the reasons why I proposed it, but I also thank the Government for putting it into its final proposal. The aim of this addition to the law was actually to edit a segment of the existing law which was called by the government's technical failure, which entertained the public for a while, and these are our cards. The fact is yes, and it was intended of course to bind the representatives and us to the right or more accurately on the obligation to publish our property cards. The fact is that more than 90% of the MPs agreed to publish their cards is actually likely to confirm the thesis that Mr Palaric had said earlier, but I wanted this debate to determine how to publish such cards. Whether it's going to be the Internet or it's going to be books that are available to everyone like some countries with a longer democratic tradition. I think it's a topic we could still finish today. My goal was also to hear the debate, hear the quality proposals of the MPs and pass one quality law, and it seems to me that we have started to discuss today that we will only be engaged in the update of one segment of this law, which is the commission. If we argue this way, I'm afraid we'll get away from the subject and make some other failures to pass the law, so if you allow me to invite my colleagues and colleagues to discuss the full text of the law without the intention of avoiding this part of course. It is necessary to publish cards, but it was necessary to specify their form precisely. That was a state of events. I'll remind you that even in these cards that were in front of us some of us were just signing up for a personal car, I'm not going in now whether they wanted to cover up the stamp or didn't consider it important, some of us were writing very precisely. Some of them wrote license plates, and later their car was stolen. Some wrote the size of their garages but forgot to write how large their houses and apartments were. Signing up for bikes and boats, probably with the intention of making fun of those cards. Some of us felt sorry for the poverty, probably attributed to it more honestly. Otherwise, I think the law can be more quality, and now I'm talking about this government. I'm going to propose certain amendments, and that's, I think the tax card must be a better solution than the property card, especially the one we had inexplicably. It is also necessary to determine what other costs are. It's very unclear that this other cost. If we watch a little bit of discussion about our earnings and not just the conflict of interest, then I'm not sure if I was unwittingly focused on the mayors and the mayors that I'm saying I really need to do the job without compensation, but also on athletes, then I could have listened to the main story about my colleague Filipovic or my colleague Cervar while some others might have found a better way of earning and that was kept quiet. They may have written columns, so they called it their political views, and of course you can express all political views here too. There are board members, boards of directors, who are also interesting to hear and see if there may be any benefits. I think, of course, there must be sharper sanctions for the inaccuracies I found in the cards, for intentional inaccuracies, and here we are very skilled. Or more for fake displays. In countries that have been dealing with this problem for a long time, it is very clear how it is responsible for such calls for failures. So in the U.S., the president may request the resignation of the debtor not only is there a conflict of interest but also doubts that such a conflict of interest exists. This is, for example, the German one that went one step further and the law there on conflict of interest, in addition to the provisions on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the defence of receiving gifts, the protection of official secrets, and the restriction on employment after the termination of a certain public duty, or the obligation to require consent for new employment up to 5 years after the end of duty. France deals with public enterprises, private businesses, and also has special laws. This part that Germany very precisely solved was a long topic in Croatia. I'll remind you of the end of last term, usually used in a pre-election campaign it's the hiring of spouses, brothers, there we have indeed shown an envious imagination, certain family, civil society, m adzore and so on. However, what has been going on or been insufficiently known to the public, and it seems to me that the last few days in our press have been updated again. It's a problem that's regulated by other special laws and refers to military personnel. For employees and furniture, as well as for authorised persons in the MUP, as well as for employees and tenants. These legal provisions were applied very precisely at local level. But the possible rises at the very top were only known from the press. So given the existence of such laws, I think it would be good to install and request a report on the application of these laws. Public and justice should also not be avoided by those who work in customs. But also in the IRS. And they need stronger control. It would also be interesting to see how our chiefs of procurement live at the auction office and also in local self-government. And how interesting or often more interesting they could be than MPs and individual ministers. It's because their attention is less focused. I think we're all gonna admit and we have to do it, of course, there are exact numbers that he has to, but we'll agree that she doesn't just live on Mark's square. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13928	Thank you very much. Whether or not the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it. No, I don't. Yeah. Mr Drazen Bošnjavković Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and Political Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13929	Mr. Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 15th session held on 3 June 2004, the final adjustment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the conduct of public duties submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Government. The law referred to is discussed on the basis of the jurisdiction of Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the crackdown, we have made observations and proposals to the final law on the basis of them, and we have also established amendments to the text of the final law. After the debate unanimously with 8 votes, we supported the proposal for this text but with the amendments that som delivered actually in writing. We have 5 amendments to the most significant amendment is to me Amendment 3 relating to Article 6 where we go with a different definition and where we allow officials to deal with other activities if it is not contrary to the behaviour of public duty. So we're going with an entirely global definition we're not limited to just cultural science and sports activities. We're also going with the amendment regarding the legal protection that's being provided here. So we suggest that legal protection is not the case for the constitutional court but for it to go to the administrative court on the basis of Article 66. The law on administrative disputes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13930	Hawla nice, anyone else on behalf of the board. I can say no. We're going to a debate on behalf of the clubs. The first is a registered club IDS with a colleague representative Damir Cain please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13931	Madam Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. Speaking of which, I think it would be wise to prescribe German, Italian, I don't know English law. Let's be consistent, then, overwrite it, not original, because our originality always gives us some of which here in the assembly hurts our heads and certainly our public. Let's do the second thing, once and for all, this material is already regulated. Not every six months that he comes before the MPs. And that's for anyone who deals with any form of public work. Whether it's the president of the state, the pronouns, the executives, the local self-government, the judges I don't know about health workers, public servants, teachers, and so on. More specifically, let's regulate relationships for everyone who's on pro-reunion salary. And there must be no difference, there must be no difference between the representatives and the official who issues, say, a building permit, a president of the state and someone who works in the aforementioned state procurement commission, a professor at the university or a doctor. Drugo, this law I would even say is some bone that gnaws the unemployed public, thinking first of all that we MPs don't know what we're affecting, especially when we're in a position of nothing, and it turns out to be that Severina movie and it becomes a squire for the docks. Every local speaker said that just before the Vice-President of the Parliament was in one privileged position by the MPs. And on the other hand, the clear eyes of the public which is again and well pointed at this assembly, the decision-making hall we all know are exclusively being made on the other side of Mark's square. The other side has not been told that the executive authority has laid this law down for us, the House of Representatives, and not for them. I just want to ask everyone the same question in the first place, to whom the poor position of the Parliament corresponds, and it does not answer us for sure, it corresponds to the exercised authority, and why, because the weaker Parliament, the stronger the executive power. And I wish that maybe for at least a month we could switch roles, and they would work under the same circumstances as the Parliament's working conditions. Everything that applies to officials should in some way be prescribed to apply to other budgetary users either to officials, doctors, professors, ministers, presidents, etc. Now here comes a story about the president and Cartier. It is clear that by law he has the right to a gift, he has no right to keep a gift to himself as I'm sure he will not. So in the future, we give some book, some art, we don't give it to a person, we give it to a government or an institution of presidents who should stay there afterwards. Speaking of these gifts, I think we're here on one of the ski slopes. For example, to banalize, a bottle of whiskey or tie that is nothing, it's on the border of bribery, and when some media gives you an interview before the elections, let's say it's that paid space, which could be worth several hundred thousand kunas and the benefit of several million kunas then it becomes normal behavior. But what do I mean by that? That never the matter that we are discussing today will be prescribed in a way that will shut down or simply predict all situations. Then the number of officials in my court needs to be radically reduced, there cannot be assistant ministers who are more than represented, there cannot be various secretaries, state treasurers, presidents of the Pension, Health, Privatisation Fund, deputy directors of this or that of an administrative organisation, etc. So from that position they can benefit from the fact that it is prescribed by the Law on Officials, not by the Law on Officials, and it is clear that after the end of the four years let their fine mandate be made available so that there will be no dispute, because all those who come to a function then are not aware of that party who then managed to win the elections extremely significant, but when that political option loses the elections suddenly these people become great experts and that conversionism simply needs to end. I'm clearly not a cleaner, we'll talk about it later in another law, but to put mandates on the table absolutely yes. When this matter is related, I think we should redefine the concept of myth. If the crime of bribery was lifted, if it were to be only bribery in the future, perhaps more than most people would report to the competent institutions if they were asked for a job bribe. So if giving and receiving is treated the same way, and all is left to the prosecutor's discretion or the judge, then who's going to say he took bribes from someone. Of course, no one. Or someone gave someone a bribe. And bribery is given to non-legislators, everyone knows it. The bribe is given in some institutions of the executive authority to arrange a job, to issue a guarantee in the administration, to issue a building permit. The bribe is given to judges again not for such a verdict or such a solution. The bribe was given in the '90s to some company or monopoly on the market. It's a bribe to get in line for some kind of surgery and stuff. I don't think it's a bribe when a doctor says I don't know, tries to thank himself with some change, 10 liters of wine or in Istria a prosciutto, no it's not a bribe in my court. It's a bribe when someone offers you money to make something for that money and do it. There's another problem here, something the vice president of the Parliament said. Do some people who are, for example, The mayors, the mayors, and they are also MPs, are entitled to a post office. Do you, for example? Someone who's a member of the Supervisory Board has a right to a certain fee? Is someone who's a representative, and also a councilman in a town has the right to compensation or not? We've had de facto three solutions here. By the year 98, when the pay of MPs was 6-7 thousand kuna, everyone who was in power was screaming for it to be compensated for in the supervisory boards. Another solution was introduced by former Prime Minister Matesha when the pay for the MPs was 16 thousand kuna, but it was not allowed in any supervisory board and the third solution was issued after 3 January which is still in effect today, when the salary went down by 30% but you could have been a member of the supervisory board as much as you wanted if you were clear in power, but without compensation so you had a situation that either at 15 or I don't know how many supervisory boards, clearly without compensation that nobody believed you again, but you could have incredible benefits from all this. It is logical for me that people who have legitimacy be members of the supervisory boards, because they must protect the public interest and respond to it at least twice, respond to elections unlike some other members of the supervisory boards, but also correspond to the basis of the Commercial Society Act and to their entire assets. And now should we or should we not valorize it with how much valorizing it? Whether a mayor who is also a representative, which is one and the other, who spends 30 or 40% more time working from another representative, deserves two or two and a half thousand or three thousand kunas there, during which time he devotes himself to the city or the municipality, or vice versa, if he receives a salary there, then whether he has the right to a flat-rate in the Parliament. Let's not simply introduce a revolutionary legislation, some revolutionary egalitarianism of an editor because it simply doesn't lead to anything. We deceive ourselves and deceive these principles and the Croatian public that again, on the other hand, no one will believe us. Clearly, I would say that much can be changed by the direct election of MPs as the mayor's direct choice is proposed, however, in this regard. Everything in all clear law is necessary, but what with so-called. the entrepreneurial activities of the representatives and this should be the key to this law. Is there a company in which some official has a share, a right to compete in a public competition? In Croatia where some neoliberalism is at work it happens that capital for its interests is increasingly showing political interest not because of altruism, love for its neighbor but that the community from local to local would be in office of capital, the next day perhaps the state. And if that happens, it will be a disaster for Croatia because it will destroy any independence of politics, it will subdue all its life to the sole interest of these privatisation oligarchs and Croatia will become one extremely inhumane place and period of self-management whatever it means for people to return to it with some nostalgia when, if anything else, they were at least protected at the workplace and had some kind of health pension protection. The economy needs to put an ad act clearly, it needs to be put in the first place with the social welfare. Why? Because that's what we all live on. However, we cannot subdue the entire public life to this economy, because if they happen to subdue public life to themselves, they will be miserable to all citizens in this country, and they need to be met by taxes, administrative actions, customs, etc. Absolutely. However, Croatia will go clearly through what others are going through, we have fought for capitalism, now we have it and let us not ask why health care is not free, why pension competition has led to people not being able to pay these benefits so they do not have to go to retirement pensions and then rely on debt repayment and so on. Unfortunately for none of what life means, this law doesn't fit. He said lacmus paper like that movie about Severina. Finally, it's not a problem I'm going to say about whether a Czecho, whether Kramaric, whether Mrs. Djurdja is getting, is not getting now, 2 thousand or 2,500 kuna for the mayor's office. I even hold that we should. The problem is if someone sets someone up for a job, then they take advantage of it for 100, 200 or more thousand kunas. It is not a problem if a councilman has a pausal of 500 kuna or if someone on the Supervisory Board has a thousand kunas, it is a problem if someone opts through privatization that job with a foreign, domestic or not know what interest. And it's an even bigger problem, well, maybe local self-government doesn't have any powers, but that's another topic, and I agree that the law is necessary, but we'll all agree on a human being, and a little depends on the legal norm. And lastly, it should be realized that the real power in this country has executive power, not Parliament. Real power today in Croatia is in the media, in capital, certainly not in local self-government or parliamentary representatives, power is not even in parties, but in or in those who have money and who have these human fates. As far as this committee is concerned. I think I'm immune to the constitutional category. It can't be prescribed to anyone, beyond the persons the Constitution knows and no exception here can seem. The Commission can also not be a court, more specifically a certain inquisition that no one will be able to complain about. That is why this proposed solution is a compromise, how useful it will be to see it, but this law should already be adopted once already, an adaptation, not that every few months we entertain the Croatian public about the position of officials and simply from that position draws attention to everything else that is far more life and vital. Whether it's jobs, whether it's exports, imports, I don't know jobs, pensions, anything like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13932	Thank you, dear fellow Cain. The next one was registered for debate on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, the respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13933	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. On the proposal for a law that has already been shown a lot of dissatisfaction in the first reading, a lot of remarks, however, not on the proposal to amend the law, but on a proposal for a fundamental law that is actually in force. It's said that he's vague, he's inaccurate, he's limiting the small ones, and in fact the big ones are still protected, and there's no big influence on them. I must say that even the Croatian Democratic Community Club is not too satisfied with the existing solution, and that is why this amendment to the law, I think they are still improving the existing text of the law. In any case, and in the future, I believe that, given that this is a new law that is not ultimately long in force, that this is a new substance, that in the future, in any case, it will require certain changes, and I think that we should look at really what experiences are in developed democracies and take those solutions that are out there again, that we are not inventing some kind of solution that ultimately always becomes half a solution. However, in any case, the amendments to this law by me and by our club are important to support, because they bring certain improvements, in any case one of the important things is to view officials in a different way, that means that they are now allowed to act and all of those other activities that they are qualified for, of course, if this is not contrary to and conflicting with the duties they conduct. Because why if someone, I don't know a qualified doctor, a university professor, that's why he couldn't give some kind of lecture and not actually take advantage of his potential. The provisions related to gifts are also corrected in this law, they are now stricter, they are now more restrictive, but they are also more just. Generally looking at changes are something stricter. However, there is what I was saying, in fact, in the first reading of that provision relating to stocks and shares in companies, I think that in the future it will need to take some changes, because the transfer of management rights to shares itself does not seem to be significant, because the share is worth a piece of paper that gives a broad palette, a spectrum of rights and de facto management through the stock is not even a source right, but, in fact, a person has the right to participate in the work of the civil society assembly, has the right to be chosen, and has the right to choose the Supervisory Board and only to participate in the management. The transfer of shares to a lawyer's office or something in my opinion is not an important measure and it will certainly require certain changes in the future. But in any case, as much as we regulate things by law, as much as we limit things by law, we make them restrictive, there's one thing that's important, which is that all the institutions of society function on the basis of professionalism, expertise and independence about politics, about power, about influence, because when we have some kind of competition, when we have certain things like that, it's very important that the people who work on it are free and independent of being able to succumb to some kind of pressure that someone from the position of power, from the position of duty that he can perform on him. The HDZ Club will support this law, because this law is in any case a small step forward, and repairs the existing text. And as for the law, which was respected by Vice-President Mrs Adlesic, he suggested he was also good and we are glad that the government and recognised a good solution and had already installed it in this text. However, in any event in the future this law will have to undergo further changes, but for now I think it is necessary to support and, of course, the amendments that I have already proposed on behalf of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure which I think are significantly fixing the existing text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13934	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honored Representative Ivo Josipovic. A change that I don't have listed here, it's a colleague of Leko's, all right, I'll enroll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13935	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Josipovic, was supposed to speak on behalf of the SDP Club, so he was prevented, so I took the duty with pleasure. But I must say immediately at the beginning that by reading this law it seemed to me that the law hides more conflict of interest than it allows to prevent conflict of interest. Why would I think that? In fact, the law is more about small things, so to speak, until the great things regulate or more importantly, the law ex-legis, so by law, determines what conflict of interest is. It's the easiest thing to say, and it's not a dispute between us all. And we know that the judge can't be in the executive power or a member of this House. We don't care about that, we don't care about the citizens, which is a conflict under the law. Citizens are interested in and concreto, what happens when we use our influence from a parliamentary representative or an official to provide a person with a private or private profit or bring him to a more favourable position in the Croatian market or generally at the expense of the general or common interest of all of us. It's the task of curbing conflicts of interest. It's not ex-lege, it's concreto. We don't make it up to you. We don't prescribe bodies or services anywhere. There should be service, no procedure, no initiative or how it ends. We're in the gift business. And something else when we think like that. Why don't we introduce property cards for all the citizens? Why don't we start building equality and equality for all citizens? So we're not going to determine who all the connected people are. Does it have to be so relatively connected that someone has a common interest in the damage to the general and to the harm of the common interest? So there doesn't have to be any relation related or family. These things are not spoken of by this House and the Law of Conflict of Interest. I think it is very important that the body for the assessment of conflicts of interest is formed, established in such a way that it is independent of politics and economic dependence, both on political and economic dependence and that it has an independent service that will work professionally and carry out work on the anti-corruption system and it is authorised to propose an assessment of conflicts of interest in front of an independent body in front of the commission. Speaking of the commission, the law itself proposes a higher degree of immunity for members of the commission than those held by parliamentary representatives. According to Article 75. The Constitution does not have any material immunity at all, therefore there is no provision that eliminates the material responsibility of the parliamentary representative. The MPs have only procedural immunity while they are in office for some criminal acts, only procedural immunity, and I ask you nicely in Article 75(2) for an opinion or vote in the Croatian Parliament. It is very precise where this immunity is and what it refers to in the Croatian Parliament, while Article 6 of the bill states that members of the commission have immunity to perform their duties no matter where. It is far-reaching immunity, although also procedural for an opinion and attitude but whether it is in the Assembly or not, the possibility of abuse of such immunity is too great, not only from a formal constitutional aspect but really with real relationships in society. In order to be precise, I would also warn the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the responsibility of the President of the Republic is determined by the Constitution and by the constitutional provisions of Articles 104 and 105 to determine the responsibility of the President of the Republic, the Constitutional Court shall be responsible. We cannot help but change the Constitution to allow the Committee for the conflict of interest, regardless of how it is done with which trust or mistrust can debate the responsibility of the President of the Republic. It's just that the Constitution doesn't allow it. What should we do to contain nature in the system of conflict of interest? It should be built systematically. In Croatia, it is well known to all of you and to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that the easiest or most recent example of abuse of the position of officials in space is even more than in business and Croatia has not yet adopted any spatial plans or urban plans. Since the terrain, the land is a lasting good, a lasting resource not only of these generations but of generations coming here I think it is urgent to bring spatial and urban plans, taking care of land books will have a greater impact on the reduction of corruption and conflict of interest than on such a committed law and on any honor to the commission that ad hoc will without an orderly procedure, without a special service who is in conflict of interest, and most often who is under the law of ex-lega. This is why the SDP Club is not against the law, it is for the law, at least opening up the possibility of discussing in this Assembly the processes that are happening in society regarding this topic, which is a conflict of interest and corruption, but we do not think that this law will really solve the burning problem in the Croatian rule of law society and conflict of interest or corruption. Therefore, there is no need to stop looking for new solutions that will allow the assessment of conflicts of interest and concreto, therefore, in certain businesses, whether in public procurement, whether to obtain jobs in state-owned tenders, society or to acquire some other positions in society, which allow Croatian officials, whether in the Assembly or in the executive power, whether in the legislative or financial sphere, this process cannot be stopped because the topic is open. I therefore propose that we continue to monitor the situation so that we can build a system to combat corruption and combat conflicts of interest, which means an independent body, an independent service, a permanent service and a determination of proceedings in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13936	Thank you very much, colleague. Next up is a colleague of Slaven Letica on behalf of the HSP Club. Here you go, fellow representative!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13937	Madam Vice President Adlesic, colleagues and colleagues! Is going to the European Football Championship at the expense of the state budget a conflict of interest, is it a latent or manifest conflict of interest? Who can go there without conflicting interest? Who can go there and be in conflict of interest? These are the questions that this law should deal with. Namely, conflict of interest by definition is neither a criminal nor a criminal offence, nor an ethical offense, nor a moral offense. These are just situations where we are all on a daily basis and each of us is individually in conflicts of interest, interest as a parliamentary representative, as a private person, as a tax payer, as a university professor, and this law should regulate and have one pedagogical mission. He's not designed as an anti-corruption law. He's not designed as a law to prevent crimes of capture of the state. It's even less designed as anti-mafia law. The troubles of this law are related to a sentence that about two weeks ago about academics Josip Zupanov published in the attitudes in "Vjesnik" reminding Kurt Levin's statement, which is actually the original statement by Emanula Kanta, that nothing is as practical as a good theory. This law lacks a good theory, it lacks any theory. This is an anti-theological, anti-intellectual law. I will tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that our neighbouring state of Bosnia and Herzegovina has a brilliant law on preventing conflicts of interest, brilliantly. It was even written in the semi-Croatian literary language, it could have been left with no remainder, with changes in key terms, I don't know state officials in the state official, applied in our specific environment. When it comes to the current controversy initiated by Antun Kapraljevic yesterday, beating himself up in public with the the thesis that Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, Dr. Evey Sanader is taken away from 2,000 kunas and I don't know who else thousands of kunas. This is in Article 4. Bosnia and Herzegovina's laws are settled very pragmaticly and unequivocally. It is said this way: "A membership of a business committee, board of directors, executive committee or the capacity of an authorised person in a public enterprise is not compatible with the public function of the elected official, executive official or adviser." So, it's unambiguously settled, whether you or not receive compensation, whether you take the Chartier's watch or not, if you're at the head of the INE Supervisory Board or if you're at the head of the HT Supervisory Board or any of the companies, either that or a company in the so-called. more state interest, this category of state interest either from the state interest or from the local interest of people do not know because yet there are many representatives who are under half a century of the invention of Kidrichev, who was later repeated by Edward Kardelj, in the old, ancient laws of companies and companies were divided into companies of federal, Yugoslav, Kotar and municipal interest. That's all to make stupid things simple. The point is that we should have political will whether we are seriously to deal with the problem of preventing conflicts of interest or not. So I think this law just follows some kind of bad karma or evil mare. First of all, he should rest on mutual trust, even if we're sitting here. And he started with a lot of mistrust. And to be quite specific, with a scandalous mistrust in Dr. Tonci Tadic and the HSP Club who were the bearers of the initiative to propose and adopt the law. So a commission that has no trust in the author and legal holder is condemned to the fate of a dead child. And there's no dispute from that. When it comes to the idea of how people live through the law, I have already mentioned one of the concepts. People think, one part of the people and a large part of the public thinks it's some kind of BUSKOK for politicians, to call it, POSKOK, means the prevention commission would work even as a shortcut. It's not. The other part of the commission, the more bizarre, thinks it's some kind of game with property cards, and so it was done in the Parliament, in baskets it was transferred from the head of the Parliament to some kind of canary, or whatever, Mr. Antun Kapraljevic. To be quite public, since 2000 my property cards have been all over the web, even my medical records. Therefore, each of us has the right to declare publicly what he considers private property. However, Croatia has a pro by brilliantly established Law on the Protection of Personal Data as opposed to the disastrously made of this Law. In this sense, I would like to revive Mr. Pera Kovacevic's idea that because of the nomotechnical quality of the legislator, civil servants, at different levels, a centre of legal excellence as some kind of institution or government agency would simply not be held from session to session from day to day offending bad legal proposals. I'll talk about another law tomorrow. It's just humiliating for insiders. I've been in the HSP Club for several areas of competence, and when I read the law in each of these areas, I'm ashamed because a man thinks why I would invest a dozen, fifteen days of my intellectual effort to fix something that was disastrously done in the beginning to something that had no authors named and a last name that we as Parliamentarians could call him to account for, to take away his license, to get fired to a state official. Not to be transferred from one administration to another, and the practice of wooden state officials is being practiced that are always. So, I would like us as rational people to see in the commission some kind of, in this law, some kind of instructive help to state officials who are objectively in conflicts of interest, to do whatever is possible to avoid these conflicts of interest. I as a university professor can get into a situation to question my own child, and so can the professor who interrogated my son. He doesn't come in, so we'll avoid the both of us, neither will he interrogate his daughter, nor will I interrogate my son, probably even the Orthodox priest won't confess his own child. We have yesterday a situation published in today's newspaper, the daughter of the President of the Republic, Sasa Mesic, was doctored at the Oil Geological Faculty, and I was particularly pleased with the news. However, her mentor is Esad Prohic, who is an adviser to the president of the Republic, which is an inadmissible conflict of interest. Therefore, we must avoid such situations to be, and what should be regulated by this law? First of all, at the beginning of at least 7 of the principles of professional and political excellence that state officials should adhere to. I'll just list them and the lawmakers if they want to know anything about it, I have it in some kind of writing form, so I can do it to them. First, it's selflessness. State officials must make decisions exclusively in favour of public interest. They must not make decisions in order to gain financial or other benefits for themselves, their families, or friends. It's a well-known Nolan's committee in the UK that has been working on a project of state administration reform. Second, integrity. State officials shall not bring themselves into any financial or other obligation to external institutions or organisations which may affect the performance of their direct duties. The third principle of enforcement, objectivity. In the exercise of public affairs and duties, the choice of officials, the conclusion of contracts or the proposal of individuals for public recognitions and awards, public officials must make decisions on the basis of their ability rather than on the basis of the belonging of party, political, kinship or friendship. A further principle is the principle of responsibility. State officials are responsible for their decisions or actions to the public and must submit to public supervision whenever they are asked to do so. Openness, further principle. State officials should be open to the public when it comes to their decisions and actions and may deny information only when the public interest clearly requires them. And last, honesty or honesty. State officials are required to declare their duty, the state officials have a duty to declare any private interest which is linked or conflicted with their public powers and duties and to take the necessary steps to avoid conflicts of interest. And last, lead. And one of the principles of enforcement is unfortunately still current with us and in those Western democracies it has long been overcome and that is the principle of competence. That a man can't be a minister and he can't be a minister if he doesn't have an elementary résumé professional competence to do it. And finally a few words about, if time, seems to allow me, about types of conflict of interest most of which are not regulated by this Law. First it's self-reliance. So that's the basis of conflict of interest. Self-employment, that state official, I don't know, Goranko Fižulić, came to the head of the INE Supervisory Board and in 4 years the traffic of his private companies on the Ina stations increased from 6 to 66 million kuna. It's a conflict of interest. To get the state official to launch two state projects, build highways, and their private companies to receive tenders. Based on internal information, based on the fictitious conversion of dumping the price of contracting what you want. Another is the use of benefits, benefits and privileges. The third is the sale of influence, so each of us has some modest influence it increases if you are a parliamentary representative, if you are a member of the executive authority then it increases multiplely because a scandalous situation has been created in Croatia, that everyone considers a parliamentary representative or representative to be a non-employee, ignorant, if you are in executive power then you can be considered at least a few first months competent to talk about it seriously and we will start to talk seriously about the competence of state officials. The use of state property. from bizarre shapes, phones, cell phones, using classified information. We had several cases of planned devaluations during the working procedure of creating a Croatian state. There were some cases of privatisation in the area. I'll just count it down, and we'll give it all to these state officials who I have to say to the legislators that they're incompetent. Additional employment, post-employment or business, you have a lot of cases, let's say, that people work in this House are passing laws, and then not after that in a private company, they get managerial contracts at $200,000. You have even the chance that the negotiators of privatising large companies are getting married afterwards. And you have personal behavior. That way, I don't want to tell you, this is too serious a law, and if it's too serious, it should be decided today, regardless of all the attitudes to vote it or not, and it's serious, or that we have to judge it won't be anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13938	Thank you very much, dear colleague. In the name of the HNS PGS Club, a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar, please elect a fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13939	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We are discussing the addition of one law which, in the last 6 months or 4 months, depends on the work of the provision, which I consider to have practically produced no beneficial legal effect but, given the proposed changes and complements not until the end of this calendar year, in its application essentially, and will also be of no legal benefit if it is accepted as proposed. It would probably be much easier to discuss the quality of the proposed additions that the government has allowed the Commission to parallel this debate on the bill, also in their provisional or first report, and to hear which problems were present in the work so far, so that they could assess more effectively and realistically the changes that the proposal now proposes in the fair law. But since this is a drougo reading and I'm sure and finally then let me make a few points about the text of the law itself, and the problems that we consider important in the Croatian People's Party club. I am very pleased that in my proposal for a second reading, the proposer has taken over almost all the proposals made by the HNSA club in its proposal have been an expedient and complementary law since the beginning of this year, although then the government has given the opinion that it does not accept or support our proposal. And the government's proposal to regulate it better. So I remind you that our club has had its proposal to amend and supplement, and I would like to single out and welcome the proposal to be included in the list of officials to which this Law applies both the mayors and the mayor of Zagreb and their deputies. As well as the municipal chiefs, all those who perform their duties in this function, including the presidents of the municipal councils where the commissioners are not elected. However, given the character or purpose of this law, and in particular the fact that the colleague Letica was now talking about the value of this law and how we should observe it, the question is raised whether it should be extended or included in that list by members of the Board of Supervisory Boards in the redemption of shareholders, for those appointed or delegated by the Government or the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, because they are also in a position or might be in conflict of interest. Because they were sent there on behalf of the state to manage this national property. The DRugo Proposer suggests that words or concepts replace tax cards for property cards, although there is no expression of property card throughout the text, but throughout the law there is a report on the property of government officials, and that should also be encouraged because we will have two different concepts in the law again. I am referring to Article 3 of the proposed interim and supplementation. I also support that the value of gifts that an official can receive is reduced to 500 kuna, but I am concerned about the fact dfa by deleting Article 8. The government leaves out the provision that, under a receipt or ban, receiving gifts is also meant when another person on behalf of the official receives a gift. I would remind myself that the current law requires that, under the prohibition of receiving gifts, the moment or the case when a gift is received, for example, by a member of the family of officials. This provision is proposed by the Government to delete from the law, so it would appear that the official must not receive the gift but his wife or child does. Therefore, Article 8 of the Law states that the latter should certainly remain in the law, otherwise this ban on receiving gifts will be played and we know how quickly. When it comes to the proposal to share shares in companies that the management officer should transfer and someone else goes to 0.5%, because of small shareholders, although in our proposal at the beginning of the year we suggested that it be 0%. We're taking it right now because of the small shareholders. but I would like to remind again that in Croatia the public and in this speaker have been said several times that these 25% stakes were introduced into the law on the basis of the demands and pressure of the Croatian People's Party which was a complete lie all the time and I must repeat that this is the attitude of the Croatian Nardone Party never happened. We also support the proposal to allow officials of municipalities, cities and counties to join the supervisory boards but without the right to compensation, in parallel with the procedures provided for by the ministers or other state officials. As well as the fact that we support an increase in the amount of punishment as it is proposed here in the Law. However, the provisions of Articles 14 and 15 of the proposed amendments, in fact, indicate or present two basic problems. Firstly, by proposing an extension of the deadline within which the Croatian Assembly of Fashion shall bring a list of companies in which officials may be members of the Supervisory Boards, the Government shall, in fact, wish to legalise all appointments that have been made so far and by extending the time limit of not more than 6 months in the delivery of a list of persons subject to appointment, selection or confirmation of a practical commission shall make it impossible for a single article or provision of this law to implement by the end of this calendar year. Secondly, the extension of the time limit for the adoption of implementing rules is actually evidence, evidence that everything that was done after 24 February of this year is against the law because Article 20(5) of the existing law clearly and unequivocally prescribed that they should enter into force, subject to the term of this Act and, over the course of a period of 4 months, the provisions on the obligation to report on property, prohibiting the receipt of gifts, on other operations, on appointment to supervisory committees and on the obligation of the official to notify of any attempt, bribery or pressure on him when performing that duty. On February 24th, therefore, those provisions came into force, and the fact that the government is proposing to extend that deadline to new provisions is proof that they are also aware that they are too late with implementing rules. And if these deadlines of 6 months from the date of entry into force of these amendments and additions are accepted, that means Christmas this year, and that also means that the provisions of Articles 20, 20, 8, 10, 11 and 14. will not be implemented in practice. I'd practically suggest that the commission freeze their work by Christmas because they won't have anything to do. If the law is in force since 24 October of last year, which is why 6 months of deadlines for the executive authority to adopt the rules that the commission should implement and allow. The Secretary of State explained these proposals in the following statement. How the government interprets the law. So how does the government interpret the law? I thought that only the Parliament could give the interpretation of laws and regulations, authentic interpretations, and if the government was in doubt of interpretation of the law, then it was through the Legislative Committee that it should have requested interpretation of the law. If they can't interpret themselves. And it is unacceptable for the bill to be explained, it also suggests to the Parliament, with an explanation of how the government interprets the law. The government has to enforce the laws, not interpret them. The government has to respect the laws, not interpret them. And if he has any doubts about our Rules of Procedure, perhaps they don't have the Rules of Procedure in the Government, so it would be good to deliver it to them, the authentic interpretation of the law is given by the Parliament who passed the laws. Further conditions for the work of the commission, resources, deadlines, implementing rules are only a matter of concern to me personally that these amendments to the law, in fact, have one single goal not to implement it with the fact that we will be able to legitimise how we have legal solutions. Therefore, it would be extremely good for the government to carefully consider amendments that will come to this text of amendments and additions, and depending on the government's indication, they will decide at the Club whether or not to support the amendments to the law. And I'll finish the next one. If it stays with this text, we won't be able to support it because it's the concept of stalling, the application of the law by the end of the calendar year, and then probably after the New Year, we'll get a whole new law that will regulate the whole matter in a new way. It is a pity that at the beginning of the term of office we have missed the opportunity all together and here in the Parliament and on the other side of Mark's square to prove to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that we are strong enough, aware enough that we ourselves can lay down rules of limitations that we will stick to without the need of the gendarmes to monitor and monitor us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13940	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. The first came from a respected representative of Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13941	Thank you very much. Mr. Lesar said this: the government wants to legalise all appointments that have ended when it comes to supervisory committees. That's not true at all. The government is working under the existing law, and I must stress the following that Mr. Lesar, as well as his colleague Leko, who had previously spoken criticise the law which, the law passed by the Government when they committed coalition rule when it comes to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13942	Thank you very much, colleague. Another correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13943	Well, Mr. Lesar said that it's a shame that this assembly of parliament failed to respond to this law, and we ourselves know that the very fact that the HNS allowed this commission to be appointed and not to, the law to be passed in the right way and, say, not to be president of Tonci Tadic. It's HNS' fault. So who's here now? ... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13944	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, please do not try to solve the problem from the bench. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Lesar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13945	Thank you very much. Col. Kovacevic injured Article 209. The Rules of Procedure because he misquoted my statement that he came into the controversy with. I said, "It is a shame that at the beginning of the term of office we all failed to regulate this area together," and I was not talking about non-compliance with the law, but about respecting the law. You misquote my words.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13946	Thank you very much, Agent Lesar. Given your exposure, I'm asking for a representative of the government. I'm sorry there's no secretary of state who's supposed to be here when there's no secretary to show. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13947	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Since I wasn't present when the secretary of state had the presentation, I can manifest myself to this allegation that the government is interpreting the law. I suppose that the secretary of state didn't think that the government was interpreting the law in terms of giving authentic interpretations, but that it was about the government understanding how it says, how the meaning of the law is that? So it's probably the wrong, wrong terminology, but surely the secretary of state didn't think that the government was interpreting the law in terms of giving authentic interpretations rather than that the government's opinion that something came out of the norm was in a certain direction. Second, as regards transitional and final provisions, the fact is that no implementing rules have been adopted under the current law on the basis of the previous rules. The fact is that they weren't brought in, and the reasons why they weren't brought in, I don't know them, I don't know them, but those, these standards need to be fixed. It is necessary to give the executive authority the possibility that within a certain time limit, the government estimates that this is sufficient time-limits for 6 months to pass this implementing rules. Therefore, the deadline may be shorter, of course. Of course, the adoption of implementing acts also depends on the start of the commission's work and the start of the functioning of this regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13948	Thank you very much. I see he... agrees with what you said. I'm going to ask that the Secretary of State be found in the afternoon with us so that you don't try to interpret what he wanted to say, because I think that's what we're doing to this debate. I see your colleagues agree. Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the HSS club is respected representative Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13949	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, what happens in this law is what happens often, and that is that we expect from him what he obviously does not intend to give and even some interpreters and what he is not written in it, and apparently everyone wants to draw out what is right for him and thus solve the form of content obviously and not so much, he was almost spent through this debate so that very little remains of him, and what little remains of the current law was not consummated. So correcting that matrix that hasn't produced results and trying to make it a new variant of the active matrix, I don't think it's much of a job. This bill which has its own public, moral character, personal character, which tries to provide answers to the most difficult questions in this society, which is the public of work, morals, persons acting in public functions, justice which is one of the fundamental values of every society and certainly Croatian societies. Of course, the law has too much burden, fences and addictions, and that almost every open debate or attempt by political parties to discuss it in a measure leads to a particular danger. A normative and technical solution to these problems, even as mentioned here, is simply not possible. It is not possible because some relationships in society are very difficult to address normally. Surely the character of public morality, of personal morality, is very difficult to standard, very difficult to bring into one sequence so that you can treat him through sanctions. How about we try to pass the love law? I think it would be very difficult to agree on how to standardize this human need and normal appearance, while all of us are satisfied. Of course we have different views about it and it's hard to bring. When we talk about this subject, which, unlike love, is far clearer, more tangible, it is burdened primarily by the overall way in which society works. Here is the need that counterpart Cain opened immediately at the outset, which is that almost all such a debate is based on a new interpretation of the negativity that Parliamentarians drag through such and similar debates. Although here if we are reading the list of officials they are no longer and are not so much of a priority, they have lost their leverage in a numerical sense, but obviously in a moral sense, in a public sense they bear all the burden of everything that is wrong in society, and I would like to say that I personally and as a parliamentary representative both yesterday in power and today in opposition I have not acquired either incapacitated or I can't possibly respond in quality, but I haven't gained the impression that I can have a crucial, important impact on certain phenomena such as public competitions, such as getting jobs, such as creating certain directions of financial or anything. It seems to me that there are far lower levels in the executive government which are far more high-quality, more operational and can be more concrete and can be subject to such a challenge in public behaviour. Parliamentary representatives should be the ones who will advocate the creation of a legal framework over these phenomena. What is important in this House, and what will determine whether we really are to set up a right and fair legal cap under which the MPs will be able to fully interpret their direction of movement, is the answer to the fact that all the parliamentarians can do within their current mandate is lobbying, trying to cheer someone up. In some countries, the issue of lobbying has been resolved by law, and it is known exactly what it means. Does something in this country mean if I or my party or anyone else or any other party is funded by a tobacco lobby or financed by a roadside lobby or funded by a tourist lobby or funded by a lawyer lobby? Whether these people, these parties and these individuals and therefore have a certain other responsibility, whether they have the opportunity to be publicly objective, to be moral, and to adopt in Parliament laws that ultimately create all those other events, whether they can do the right thing and whether this correctness is also one of the topics of this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Of course, and of course, if I am funded by a certain economic institution and I come to the Croatian Parliament on those wings, I guess it is also considered a morale that I must use my position in a way to make amends. So these are all topics that are present in society, which citizens are completely publicly talking about, and we need not be allowed here to talk about it publicly. This material has good intentions. He has a positive character. He's trying to solve the margins. In doing so clearly, he throws all the burden on the MPs, that they continue to represent the synonym of everything that is wrong in this society while those who truly carry out certain tasks, which are not in accordance with neither the law nor the character of the public nor all those who need to be the quality and value of a legal system, are, in view of the character of such a law, still where they are and will do as they do. So we have no reason to be hypocritical, because hypocrisy won't justify us in public, and since we've already been brought to the public, I think it's good to be open. During my last reading on behalf of the club, I made some suggestions that I thought it would be good for us to consider as a legislative body. It's about the commissioner in the companies. Which means a commissioner in a company where I or you own it, and I named it Commissioner. So that's how I became a legitimateist, I stopped anyone from calling me an interest or using my office in any way as an official of this state, because I have a commissioner that I named, by the way, I'm paying him, and now what's the difference? Nothing. We only got one little middleman who gets his salary on the way, so if that pay is the justification of some public character, let the public goods remain. But we haven't solved the point, because the essence is actually not solved there, we can't normally solve it if someone owns a particular company and sits in this parliament, he has to say it very clearly, it's a perfectly legally justified fact, it doesn't have to be immoral, but it has to be known. The Commissioner himself cannot justify the possibility of a conflict of interest. So if that's how we justify it, then we're this unnecessary, hypocritical, and the next day we'll discuss that we didn't do anything but write that Ante will instead have a commissioner named Jure who's at Ante's salary, you won't be safe. Therefore, such interventions in Article 11(1) simply do not require this Law because they will not resolve it. At times, it is not possible to prescribe everything by law, but what we cannot arrange to implement that which will not be effective, let us not even write it because it only burdens us. Furthermore, when I suggested that we expand the list of officials because it is so big that it covers half the world then I said more in a joke, ironically, that we fill it with everyone else and that it is one dozen pages so that it certainly doesn't involve anyone. I would suggest, and that's what I said in the third proposal, I would advocate erasing Article 11(6). Namely, why, if we are already as parliamentary representatives, so much under public surveillance, if we are so unjustly put into a position that we have to defend ourselves and for what we are not really responsible for, but we are here publicly speaking, this is transmitted by television, the citizens therefore have the perception they have, if that is why we are even allowed to sit here in the House today in opposition, positions, tomorrow in the position of the government, why be on boards at all. Well, there's this country, enough professional, moral people, so if you want party people in every government that can sit there and I don't agree with those who are seriously sitting on the monitoring board of a serious company not to get paid, there's no such thing as anywhere in the world, there's someone who answers and who needs to be paid. And Parliamentarians have quite enough reason to devote more to their work, to do the same work in this hall as in the field, but that would avoid a huge trap, but also a great burden that we all carry together, but before and today, and so it will be in the future that we are constantly called for something that I am convinced that in most cases we cannot prevent and we are not responsible. If that's how we do it again in practice to say our President-in-Office of the Parliament is positive, which will last from now on so let it last as soon as it comes to better support in society and believe that if today a single message from the Assembly of Parliament will not be in any supervisory committee, that is our contribution to the resolution and new morality of this society, that is our contribution to the public, it is our contribution that on our own example no matter what it is said here they will not receive compensation, but you know what the people say and they don't need compensation they get otherwise. Therefore, we cannot convince the people but in this way in which it is only reasonable, which is that we are not there, that no one should be on the boards of directors be they from the state, local, or as fellow Letica of the federal level said. Therefore, it would be good proof that we want good to this law. This law will change both with this intervention and without this very quickly, but this moral vertical in terms of our conduct responsibility would be very important not only for the future of this Law but for the future of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13950	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I am obliged to provide information that it is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to apply for a ten-minute hearing at 13 hours and 6 minutes. We have another application on behalf of the club LIBRE that is Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš behind this we will have a break by 15 hours when we continue the individual debates, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13951	Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. This proposal for a law that we have in our second reading is, unfortunately, the continuation of bad practice to deal with ourselves, and in a bad way, without real shifts in what we want to do, and unfortunately, in its current implementation, this law has proved to be a complete farce, and then questions are raised whether those who pass the laws really want this law to be passed, and then the law that will really regulate the issue of conflict of interest, and then, of course, this lie, it falls on all MPs and on all those who act in public responsibilities. This Law has not brought with it anything good since it was in force, except of course great public confusion, the creation of disorder, the creation of false impressions, the opening of false dilemmas, and nothing else has brought this Law with it. If there's something positive in it, then it's the only experience, a bad experience that can be done, but still not in this way. It took a while to see one set of questions, the problems this Law carries with it, and then to react and this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not it, this is the same thing as continuing swimming on the wrong dilemmas created, and I last spoke about it on behalf of the Club of LIBRE, which is the fundamental reason why the law is being passed is that 25% which are meaningless change because if you reduce it to 0.5% I don't know where the Proposer 0.5% I don't know what it means, someone can have 0.5% in a large state enterprise, so that in a strong conflict of interest and someone can have 20% in a small company so that they can't almost come into conflict of interest, but the promoter has drawn 0.5% from somewhere but that's not a problem, it remains a fundamental fact that with these eras and the obligation to transfer of management rights nothing. That's what we were talking about here. Whoever transferred his management rights can continue to be very calm, comfortablely, without any possibility of supervision by anyone can continue to manage their firms, and thus violate that article of the law that says that he must not use privileged information, who can monitor it. And it is indeed that the government proposes this Law only for this reason, and refuses to respect most of the parliamentary remarks, including the comments of clubs. This is how they are received when they try to explain why they refuse to comment on the Club LIBRE that the person who has transferred rights can continue to run his business using the privileged information he has, then the Government responds that it can still be monitored through citizens' applications or in some other way. What citizens' reports, which means, who will follow citizens' applications or, of course, an even more interesting question, which is another way to monitor the use of privileged information, even if it has transferred all management rights to some other person, third party or some legal person? So it's just a continuation of one farce, the climate was created that it was a key issue because of two, three people, and then the government decided to show its sincere intentions. But with this law, too, it becomes an absolute law that has no teeth, and a law that will not be applied in many respects. Farsiically, all of this shows an example of publishing property cards. It is not the intensity of this law to see how rich and how poor and how poor it is, but to see how much one is in the course of his duties possibly increased his assets and in such a way may have come into conflict of interest. We have thus only overcome the interests of our public, and that in itself is not bad, but it is not intention, it is a zeroth step. The idea is therefore that these cards should, of course, be public property cards, the public must know and know how much those who act, but that is not the meaning of the property itself, but the wealth itself is not bad, as everyone can, of course, have reasons and the right not to be a rich man and yet nothing about that man being in conflict of interest. Therefore, this farce, which took ten or 20 days to entertain the public, is indeed as productive and harmful to this fundamental purpose, and the fundamental intention is to see whether officials have acted fairly and have, during the course of their duties, been enriched against the law. And of course there's no question about it here. To show which is the full farstity of this law, we've done two tests at the Libre Club. At the time when the question was raised, were the cards a public matter? We have sent a letter to Mr. Antun Kapraljevic to the president's office to deliver our cards, so that the representatives of Pavlic, Herman and I themselves can deliver our property cards to the commission, so that we can publish them ourselves and break that farce for all of us. However, we did not receive any response to this letter from the Committee on Conflict of Interest, and we also did not get our cards. For the matter to be even more ridiculous by testing the provision of the Law which speaks very clearly in Article 6 on the fact that tax cards are public, I have sent a letter to the Minister of Finance to call on this article paragraph 7 of the Sixth Law, which states, the data from the tax card of the officials are public and asked to be delivered to me by tax cards, several officials of the highest parliamentary officials and all members of the government. The Minister of Finance, as if I hadn't referred to Article 7. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest fits. That Article 8(1) and (2) The General Tax Code also states that the Tax Administration must safeguard them and that only the authorities of the State Administration and the judicial authorities can therefore not respond to my request. Therefore, the minister does not respect the fact that there is a new law that explicitly says that these tax cards are a public matter. Afterwards, the minister spoke about how tax card data is public, but not tax cards themselves, which is, of course, ridiculous, which is to play not only the rights of MPs, to play logic, but of course to play the law. And now the government is proposing that these tax cards be no longer a public matter. Therefore, this law is in this sense a step back. Therefore, we at the Club LIBRE support the proposal by Adlešić, that both tax and property cards be public. The public has the right to know what business activities officials are if we have already cited them and has the right to know and what their property is at the beginning and at the end of the term of office. Therefore, if we really want to take a step forward in law enforcement, then both of these cards must be made available to the public in an appropriate manner when it comes to officials. This law repeats, amends the provision and introduces property cards instead of tax cards, which means that tax cards under this law will not be a public matter, and I think it is contrary to the law's intensification that the public has the right to know and what the economic situation of the MPs is, because through this fact, it can be directly or indirectly concluded whether the representative acted fairly during the course of his term of office and whether he unfairly increased his incomes, and of course it should be seen through these tax cards. Otherwise, the very fact that our commission has been established is a problematic commission is actually, no matter who leads it, is in conflict of interest. The commission shouldn't be doing a big political mass and a show, and it has to do it, because it's public pressure, because it's interesting topics, that I'm not talking about the members of the committee being a party person, and then it's also in conflict of interest about relations with the representatives of its club, or some other clubs, and it's not a good solution. In the British Parliament, this job is handled by a person of general trust, a person who has experience in such things, a parliamentary commissioner, who seeks to work discreetly. The Commissioner who used to act in that job left the job because of the strong flirting with the public. The public needs to know that, but there should be rules and measures about it. Therefore, as it has been established, that we are not talking about the political conflicts that occurred when the commission was established, and of course I don't think of anyone individually, the commission is actually, by the logic of things, and this is how it is built in the conflict of interest. Therefore, this is another reason why we feel that this law is unfortunately not a good law and I repeat we will, on behalf of the Club of Libre, support the second bill that speaks of both tax and property cards being public, but we cannot support this legal text, because it is in one part that suggests actually unreal, and in the other part it is restrictive actually going below the level that we already have in the existing law. What I think is particularly bad is that the government did not actually accept most clubs, the comments of the representatives clubs, nor the representatives themselves, and in one ignoring way, for example, when it explains why it did not accept the comment of the Club of Libre, that the directors of public companies were persons in conflict of interest, and that we are, so today we have the fact that, for example, the director of INA, who has several billion kunas, is not under this law in conflict of interest, and the public defender for gender protection or gender equality that has a total budget of 500 thousand kuna, is in conflict of interest. The director of large public companies not only at the state level but at the city level, it is those who really have big money and they can certainly be in conflict of interest if nothing else is due to the size of the state or public funds they have. Instead of trying to install such provisions into the law, the proponent simply says the law refers to officials and the finished matter. Therefore, it resorts to a formal explanation, an explanation and the point of the observation is that one who is more available to the public means that it is, by definition, actually stronger for the public, also more interesting in the conflict of interest. Therefore, I regret to say that this bill is not a shift forward but that it is merely a continuation of this irresponsibility of the relationship that this law has at all, to which the Parliament and the politics are concerned, so I can say even to the public and that unfortunately it is not the creation of any positive but negative experiences and I hope that this negative experience will also be a proposal for once, not at this time, because this is certainly not the case to pass a quality law which will be a step forward in solving this really complicated and complex issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13952	Thank you very much, colleague. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, MP Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13953	I'm supposed to correct an incorrect quote when Mr. Radosh said the law didn't bring any good. First, I would say a large number, which is about 200 citizens who have called the commission and who are interested in not entering into a conflict of interest and who have resolved their interest in that way when they are given an interpretation, resolved their issue of conflict of interest. And I must also point out that a parliamentary prisoner just because of a conflict of interest resolved his question and left the Parliament. I must also point out that a mayor resolved his issue of conflict of interest because he resigned as director of a particular company. And as far as their memo is concerned, that the commission delivers their property cards and property cards were not even owned by the commission. Those assets were taken over by the commission from the president of the Parliament. You're not the only ones who asked to be delivered to them. We have published the property cards of all those who have signed. Who didn't sign a statement saying that their cards were published, we didn't publish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13954	Thank you very much, colleague. It's 13.34. It's a stop by 3:00. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13955	The word has a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13956	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an assistant, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is the final proposal for amendments to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, which the Government wants to remove some of the concerns that have already arisen in practice. At least it's such an explanation and yet it seems to be a real intensity. At this point, however, it seems that it would be a greater benefit if the government had made an effort to do what was its duty under basic law. So, to adopt these sublaws which are strictly, as is strictly by law and determined and within what time-limit it is necessary to do so. All in order for the commission to begin truly with work, in the fullness of its work and in the fullness of its authority. However, a serious question arises, will we also do anything with these changes if there is no serious political will that is manifested then and in such a way that the government does something that is required under the law, that is, to revive the law. A law that neither has been brought to life, and we're changing it already. And we're changing the provisions of some, I say, with the intensity to explain them, and the ones that are not at all questionable we don't meet. Such a commission continues to operate in one of its six - member moles, although the law said that trust is, therefore, a body of seven members. So it makes sense that there is a certain confusion, whether it is just a set of individuals who can then act on their own, which is certainly neither the intention nor the urgency of the spirit, and besides that, the law says so. In fact, the law says otherwise. But here to this day we don't have a seventh member. To this, yesterday, the President of the Commission also appeared in public and drew attention to this, when they did not bear fruit, the fruit of all those letters and requests that he asked the Croatian Parliament, that is, of the President of the Parliament to satisfy it, that is to say, to comply with the law. When this law was passed, it was precisely to pay particular attention to precisely preventive measures to combat corruption in the first order of those bodies most exposed to corruption, so that such bodies, therefore, precisely such bodies, are most controlled. In order to make their bodies sound, so that their respective competences are clear, that they are clearly distinguished, that their actions in their actions are transparent, that they are logical, in general, that these management bodies are either in the administration or in some other bodies that are more exposed to the attack, to corruption to give them great attention, so that these jobs become maximum transparency. That is why, when it was passed during the former authorities, this Law was passed in parallel, and immediately thereafter, the Law on Access to Information was passed. So now you should see how much that law actually respects. Because other than that repressive apparatus that absolutely needs to be supported, which is dealing with corruption right now, I think it's this law, and then later on these changes here are what the government is proposing that they should be right in that direction. So, first of all, it needs to act preventively. That is why it is important for those norms that not only speak of such persons being found in a conflict of interest, because we see from the basic provisions and the first provisions of the law that say that they do not allow the position of state officials and when they are not in conflict of interest, but that is why it is important that people think that at a certain point, or at a certain point, they can do so. That's why I think and support all those who have already pointed out that this was an ideal opportunity already when the government, when the promoter went with the amendments to take one step forward and that really membership in the supervisory committees was incompatible with the state's duties. But here we do have a step back, therefore, to cover one condition rather than improve the situation. So it is now said that during the conduct of public duty, therefore, until the government has yet to go out with its list of companies in which it has mainly ownership, where it is particularly interested, so that all other appointments and in all these cases held by state-owned officials can be held by the supervisory boards. However, just and without, and it doesn't matter at all that there is such a job, for such a membership on the supervisory boards, a state official does not receive compensation. It doesn't matter at all. The important thing is that it is there and creates one suspicion, one public suspicion that it has some kind of influence. What's been set up in law, and it's still being elaborated, and I think it's a fundamental flaw in the existing law, where only the government is still expanding, I would say this situation and it should have gone just the other way around. Therefore, one who has decided to carry out public affairs cannot at the same time carry out any other activity other than the scientific, teacher who is everywhere in the world is recognised. All this other professional activity, crafts, family economy and so on, it's not possible anywhere but with us. And then basically this is set up as an exception and basically it's a rule. Because it was essential that the representative, the ministers, the state officials, as this law refers to, have only that salary. But that's how we made that rule the other way around, the exception, and the exception, precisely because of this width of the set thing, became a rule. It's very important exactly, it's even more important than this of 0.5% whether to transfer its management rights 25%, and now 0.5%, but it stands the more objective and real objection that my colleague Radosh was talking about because that 0.5 can mean a lot somewhere and somewhere even 20 doesn't mean anything. So, basically, if someone who opted for a public job had only that job for politics. Because it's these other different situations that he's in the West doing his professional activity or crafts that cause doubt. The law therefore states that the Commission would assess from case to case if it did not conflict with the specific law, or if the nature of that activity is not contrary to the performance of their public duties. So, then, to allow all these tasks and activities to be carried out. It's one, really one wide... which would lead to a strange situation, and once again to one arbitration, someone would be allowed the same job because of some different business that... this craft or activity would take place and elsewhere would not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we bring only the commission into one difficult situation as it is, how can it be controlled at all, or when it is allowed and when it is not. In any case, it will react once some kind of affair or some kind of confusion or some kind of public conversation has already erupted, and then that's not good. Because the basic purpose of the law was to prevent such situations, to affirm politics, and it goes exactly in favor and politicians and again affirms such one activity as taking up the common good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13957	I thank the esteemed representative, Ingrid Antičević. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13958	... So it is incorrect that the government is guilty of not applying the law in that section to the number of members of the commission, that the commission acts with 6 members because it is waiting for the opposition to be agreed and to propose to the seventh member so that they can then put it in the procedure to be appointed. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the seventh isn't appointed just because the opposition doesn't have candidates and it can't be arranged.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13959	Thank you. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13960	Mr President, this institution is being misused again here by correcting the incorrect allegations, and thus the fellow MP has injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 209. Eventually, it would have been a replica, but in any case not only did he abuse the Rules of Procedure and this institute but he corrected my exact quote to his or her, or to quotes, “corrected by his incorrect quote” because it is not true. The opposition has made its proposals, but it is obvious that the ruling is not satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13961	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Capricorn, the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13962	Mr. Chairman, a colleague has injured the Rules of Procedure by saying there is no waiting for opposition. The opposition made proposals and withdrew at the Committee's session, withdrew its candidates and did not make any other proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13963	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. It is up to the honourable representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13964	The Honorable Vice President and the Honorable Secretary of State. Here I am now going to propose to the seventh candidate to begin, and I propose that we appoint Dr Tadic as the seventh member, so we can still hold a vote during the day if the parliamentary majority agrees and resolve this situation. So the problem, the problem is very, very easy to solve. You have an official proposal. Let it meet, the committee or parliamentary committees meet, and let the majority of parliaments vote on it. That's no problem. I'm going to pick up where I stopped by arguing in my first reading about this law. At the time, I said the law was inconsistencies because it was written for state officials, and then it was amended when it was adopted intervened and the leaders of the local self-government unit were inserted into that law. Based on the assumed parts of my debate from the first reading, the Office of the State Administration accepted some remarks and installed some possibilities or instruments for the heads of the local self-government units so that it would still be somewhat applicable because, according to the first reading, it turned out that, for example, the head of the least municipality in Croatia could be on the supervisory board of the INA, but could not have been on the supervisory board of its municipal company operating in its area, its municipality. I'm going to say more about this because neither is this solution written now fully applicable to units of local and regional, regional self-government, but I think that this is the law that is otherwise the first law to treat both the state and local self-government in the same way because I don't see why we wouldn't then have an election law that would define both units, and elections in units of local self-government and parliament, but we have separate ones. Why do we have a special Law on Local Self-Government, and only this law we have that defines a conflict of interest in which I am in order to really very strictly define the prevention of conflicts of interest both at the state level and in the units of local self-government, but I think that should be a special, special law for the leaders of the units of local self-government. And it will prove that this law will not be applicable to the leaders of the units of local self-government, and I will point to this in part in the debate today. The law will be as effective, not as many members of the commission, not as much criminal provisions as our public in Croatia. The stronger the public, the more it will have an impact on political life in Croatia, the more this Law, but not only the law, but also the behaviour of politicians and responsible people, as well as state officials, will be more responsible. Because at the moment when the public points out the conflict of interest and this results in a shift or that this person is eliminated from political life, then no law will be needed, then there will be responsible behaviour and then we will have clear rules defined in the public who can and in what way morally and honorably conduct public duties in the Republic, the Republic of Croatia. And now let me point out just a few things that I think maybe we should fix when precisely because I don't think there should be the leaders of the local self-government unit inside. I'm not going to react to the amendment, but I'm just going to make my views known right now. First of all, it seems illogical to me that we have the mayors and mayors of the city of Zagreb and their deputy, and that we do not, for example, have the president of the City of Zagreb Assembly and its deputy president. I also don't see any difference between the mayor and his deputy mayor and their deputy mayor where the de facto mayor and the mayor, or the deputy mayors, are almost even in each other's responsibilities and powers. I advocate that they are all thrown out of this law and made a special law, but if we have already put the mayor and his deputy then the mayor of Zagreb and his deputy or mayor then I see no reason not to be deputy mayors in other cities, because in essence the county is the form of units of local self-government. They're no longer part of the state administration. Also no, I'm not sure whether the heads of the state administration's office in this office are involved here, but not where the directors of state, state agencies are spoken of. I think that such a defined law is a rude interference and violation of the autonomy of local self-government, and I think that it should really be regulated by a special law, as I believe that the definition of the Rector and the university's procurator is an interference in the autonomy of the university in Croatia, and I don't see the difference between, for example, the proctor and the dean in that sense when we talk about the possibility of conflict of interest, since colleges today have legal personality, and the university doesn't have as strong legal personality as they do, as colleges do. So it might be good to consider allowing for greater autonomy of the university and ultimately, in the numbering of state officials, it might be good for the commanders of the Corps of Armed Forces to define it in some general way because in the reform it will come to, to redecorate the Corps so that, and there will be brigades so we won't have any more of these people. So maybe to put in a general, general saying that will define this rank of commander, but when we look at it, I see no reason not to install, for example, members of the management of companies that are mostly owned by the state in this law. Can't they be in conflict of interest and be given for them to define that they also have certain fences. As far as work compensation is concerned, it's incomprehensible to me or I'm going to say as I read this law here, so it's said that you can't accept work compensation except for what you do as an official. but that you can do some things, so you can do scientific, teaching and other educational, cultural and sports activities. So that's where I'm allowed to do it, but it's quite certain that you can't receive compensation for it. And it is quite certain that those who have a dual function, so the mayors, the mayors, the parliamentary representatives, the presidents of the County Assembly and the parliamentary representatives, can't take it any further, no matter how they make use of that fee. For health charity, social or other purposes. Under this law, none of us particularly sitting here can receive any other fee for any work other than the copyright fee. And that's what it says here you have an amendment from a colleague named Jospovic who's trying to define it. I don't know how the government will deal with that. But you can't be a slow coach and say that a congressman and a sports coach can take a once-in-a-lifetime as a sports coach or as some other fighter, basketball player, football player or in a different way. So that's what this law says. Just as the mayor says he can't take a shower and can't have a councilman in the city council or the county assembly receiving a fee for attending meetings and wages here in the Parliament. I guess that should be clear to all of us who are so committed to the conflict of interiors. Even by showing by your example that it really is. No matter what you do with it, you can give it for humanitarian purposes, but you can't even receive it and then you can't give it. The following Article 6 defines what you can have, so it is defined for example that you can have a trade but you cannot have a share in a company. I think that there is discrimination about entrepreneurship, and that the charge should be defined or that you can deal with entrepreneurship or you can't deal with entrepreneurship. Either you can own some entrepreneurial activity, activities including crafts, or you can't. There's no difference between millions of euros in turnovers and companies that have a core capital of 20 thousand kuna and you have a stake in 0.5%. or there is a big difference, because under this law you can be the debut owner of such a craft, but you can't have 25%, but 0.5% in the company that you have the basic capital of 20 thousand kuna. And I think it's a very discriminatory craftsman. Likewise, with officials in the local government, it is defined here that they can only be where local self-government units have the majority share. which is if they have units of minority share as with regional plumbers. There the local self-government unit has a minority stake in it, for example 10%, if in that case it could be him in this. Two sentences, if you'll excuse me. And eventually it is said that state officials will be able to spend six months in supervisory board companies until the government brings the list. However, that deadline shall not be granted to representative bodies of the unit of local self-government. Units of local self-government and mayors and commissioners must leave the Board of Supervisors within 8 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13965	Thank you. Replica's esteemed Bystander.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13966	My replica refers in part to Mršić's presentation and is related to the interpretation that the existing law should be applied when it comes to the presidents of the county parliaments and to the presidents of their deputy city councils. I don't think it can draw in any way a sign of equality between the executive authority at this local level, and between conditionally speaking legislative. When it comes to city councils or county clumps. So I think it's just one extension extra, and on the other hand I can see the following, that in the previous presentation as I've heard the Oleg Ingrid mention it. In terms of criticism of this Law when it was first passed. I must conclude the following that this Law that is now in force, it was brought into the old assembly of Parliaments and when most in this House were slightly different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13967	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13968	Dear colleagues, I did not say it was passed on to the presidents of the county assembly, except for the city of Zagreb. I was talking about the city of Zagreb as a special unit of the regional self-government that has special status. I have tried to compare the status and authority of the mayor and their deputies to the mayor and their deputy, and indeed there is no difference in law. But let me not talk about him being used for the first time. but the fact is that all those who are today appointed to the supervisory committees and on this list, and on the old list, are, are in conflict of interest. Because the government had an obligation to submit a list and we were supposed to adopt that list. The government delivered it and withdrew it three times from the procedure. That one. And secondly, all the leaders of local self-government units are currently in conflict of interest. Because by law they couldn't be on the Anders Committees, only now they're told it can be, only when the representative bodies of the units of the local self-government list. In which the representative bodies of the local self-government unit do not have 6 months of time and by the end of the year if they have what the Government and the Sabor have. We should do it in eight days. But the fact is that all the ministers, all the deputies, all the MPs who are on board today in conflict of interest. And it is inadmissible that the Prime Minister is polyming with the Borg deputies in a way that he tells them that we don't know how to read the laws we bring here. If you read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13969	I thank you. Time's up. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13970	It is said here, therefore, that it is not written on the Supervisory Board except in those enterprises that this Parliament lists. Since there is no list of companies, there is no tkde on those supervisory committees. It's a management problem. But let the problem be management where the trade societies are, where the representatives of the supervisory committees are not appointed, but the congregations must be convened. This is not meant by this law in the transitional and final provisions that a participatory society must convene a congregation in order to change its supervisory board. Because not all supervisory committees are appointed by the old government. There's a different way of selecting boards.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13971	It is up to the distinguished representative Ivana Sučec Trakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13972	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13973	All right. No, it's okay. It's Ljubica Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13974	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. When this House passed a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, it was intended to pass a law that would guarantee that those who behave were honest and honest. It is not easy to find solutions that will achieve the intended goal especially in the public opinion atmosphere that all politicians are immoral, and that they only work for personal interests and perforations. It is a pity that the debate on the law was not conducted in a quieter atmosphere in which the debate would dominate the Racio and the sincere search for effective and enforceable solutions. Unfortunately, the law was in the process at a pre-election time when the parties were motivated by a single goal of gaining sympathy as many citizens as possible. sympathies were tried instead of reasoned and constructive proposals with heavy mutual accusations which have not been proved to date either justified or justified. I don't think anyone should use their own positions for their own breakthroughs. This must be under strict control and therefore the law is intended to set up a commission to decide on a conflict of interest. It was when the commission members were appointed that there was no political will to create conditions for the impartial and independent work of the commission. The ruling parliamentary majority does not want to accept the candidate of one opposition party. Even more so, he wants to make his own choice between opposition deputies, which clearly shows that the ruling party now does not want an impartial and independent commission that would oversee and control the conflict of the interests of officials. Of course, officials who could come into conflict from the ruling majority, and that was why we had regulated the composition of the committee by law in a way that appointed the president from the ranks of opposition. There is no respect for the will of the opposition and the appointment of a president without the votes of the opposition has led to doubt at all the role of the commission as an independent and impartial body which will be a guarantee that state officials conduct their duties with honor and integrity as a common good rather than as personal breakthroughs. It does not require special wisdom to understand why the ruling majority want to have control over the commission. In addition to parliamentary deputies, there are no more state officials from the opposition ranks because they are all cleaned up. If it is to judge by the fierce rhetoric of MPs from all clubs and those who were at the time of the adoption of the opposition, and today those who are today the opposition, and then were ruling, was expected to reach a consensus without a problem about the appointment of members of the commission, but this did not occur. And not only that, to this day, the commission is not complete, one member is missing from the opposition, and that is why manipulation, the lack of quorum makes it impossible for the commission to work. Who needs that? The opposition certainly doesn't. The refusal of consensus with the opposition has marred the credibility of the commission at the very beginning, and this is unnecessary if the current authority remains with its views from the time of its opposition and has advocated an impartial control role of the commission. Although there are still no conditions for the commission's work ahead of us to amend the laws that are said to fix the existing law. Thus, it is proposed that the future official may retain only a gift of symbolic value under which the value of a gift of 500 kuna is considered. Such a provision would, I guess, imply that the official will, with a gift, require an account to be attached so that the value of the gift can be determined unequivocally. Such inaccessible and far easier to prescribe that the official must not retain any gift. In this way we resolve the inconveniences of the recipient and simplify the control of law enforcement. Furthermore, a circle of tasks, i.e. activities that an official may carry out during the conduct of his duties, is being expanded. Thus, the future prime minister of government, government minister, parliamentary representative or other official, will be able to carry out educational work, but will also deal with sports activities. How the official, therefore, the prime minister, minister, MP or others for the job of acting as a payee, the question arises. Whether to receive an added salary or a fee with respect to education or sports activities. Another 100, 200 grand or a few million kunas. According to paragraph 9, it would not be possible to do so, as he says: Officials shall receive, during the course of their public duties, the pay for their duties and must not receive any other salary or compensation unless explicitly prescribed by law. However, if that is not the case, Article 2(2) of Article 8 of the amendment states: Officials who carry out some of the permitted activities are obliged to notify the Commission of the proceeds with a copy of the tax application. On this basis, it is clear that some officials will receive, in the future, another form of income for other jobs they will be doing for and at a time that they would have to use to carry out their duties, as it is also paid for by taxpayers' money. Let the gentlemen decide what they will do, for at the same time they cannot receive double wages or compensation. It seems to me that this way is not going to achieve one of the fundamental objectives as the MP said then, and today's President of the Parliament, to strengthen the accumulated trust of citizens in the behaviour of authorities or authorities. Furthermore, the law aims to prevent the conflict of interest of officials who carry out public duties with their private interests. It is therefore proposed that all officials, during the conduct of their duties, must transfer their management rights to the company of capital to another person who must neither be his or her spouse nor his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/his/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/his/her/her/his/her/her/his/her/her/her/his/his/his/her/his/her/her/her/his//her/her/her////////////// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his// his////// his/ his/ his/ his/ his// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his////////// his///// his//// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ This obligation applies to all officials who have more than 0.5% of shares or shares in a company. By reading on the surface, however, this provision seems to exclude conflict of interest. The owner or co-owner of the company is interested in managing the company, but only with one single objective, which is to achieve as much profit as possible. By transposing management rights, the official is denied management, but the fundamental interest in achieving the greatest profit of his capital company remains. Can it be theoretically excluded that if an official is dishonest and dishonest, he will not favor his own company of capital just because he has transferred his governing rights to someone else. Of course he can't and that's why it doesn't matter if and how many shares or shares he has, it's important that he can't please himself or his society because he's an official. In disabling this, the role of the commission is crucial, but not a commission in the british composition or composition, which has not resulted in a consensus of all parliamentary parties. Despite the heavy accusations made by the current authority for membership in the supervisory boards of state-owned companies, for which officials have not received any compensation under these amendments and new officials will be able to be members of the board in commercial societies of special national interest. What societies are that we still don't know, because the government has withdrawn its proposal from the procedure. If it is to believe journalists, some brother-in-laws, sons-in-laws, godfathers and friends and other ministerial relatives have found their place on boards, of course, with compensation. If the future role of members will be to accompany society until its bankruptcy, then we from Slavonia will tell you, - thank you, we do not need such members of the Supervisory Board, we do so ourselves and without paying the costs of the trip. And finally, when we passed this law in the last term, then you were asked to take pictures to imagine only two politicians. Now that we're bringing these changes and additions, I'm asking you how many pictures here in this House would take a hanging, how many people and politicians are being predicted, or who is being adapted to this law. This law is ineffective, this law is infertile, this law is purely barren and as such we do not need.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13975	I thank the honourable representative. For correcting an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Jrnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13976	Dear representative Lalic said most in the parliament did not want to accept the opposition proposal. The opposition had the right to a member of the commission, the opposition could not agree, he suggested three members, when Mr Kapraljevic was elected, the other two members were withdrawn and gave up their bids, since then waiting for the opposition to propose the seventh member. That's true. It's been discussed here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13977	I'd like to thank the honourable representative of the Capricorn. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13978	A colleague, Jarnjak, injured Article 209 by misleading the public by repeating the truth over and over again, thus creating a belief that it was true. The opposition offered, the opposition and demanded under the law that the chairman of the board was from opposition circles.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13979	No injured Rules of Procedure, Article 209.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13980	... We requested that our...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13981	No injured Rules of Procedure 209. I beg you to. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13982	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Lalic should be warned in a manner of expression it has already been quite said here and last time we agreed nicely that we would not insult each other, therefore, what I said, in 209th too, what I said is so, there is a phonogram of the minutes please read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13983	Also in this case, no injured article 209 as well as in the previous one, I ask you not to abuse a plate of Infringement Rules of Procedure. For correcting the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13984	Mr. Vice-President, it is completely incorrect that the ruling coalition has determined who will be sitting in the commission and it is completely incorrect that this same commission has not worked because of the lack of quorum as read by counterpart Lalic in her speech. In fact, the commission worked, it worked, it was true that one member of the commission was missing, but it could work and it still works today and it meets when they want it to. Therefore, it is not necessary to deceive the public with such untruths, and it is indeed inappropriate to speak in such a way in this house.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13985	I thank the honourable representative. It's time for the honourable representative of Velimir Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13986	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. This Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Dispute of Interest in Public Dutys has brought together some positive solutions since the first reading, more fully defining the circle of persons and officials concerned, the issue of receiving gifts, as well as the issue of ownership stakes, and the regulation of the possibility of officials to be members of the supervisory boards of commercial companies in state-owned property without the right, without compensation for work. This Law lays down standards in the conduct of public duties that already exist in the countries of traditional democracy and the European Union. It is a kind of guidance to officials on the behavior that is expected of them and to inform the public of the behaviour of the official is considered acceptable. Or perhaps even better, the law is actually a legitimate ethical code of conduct of officials or should it be. The conflict of interest is all situations in which the private interest of officials with the public interest that they would have to represent, these are situations where public officials are not impartial in assigning jobs, but there are doubts of setting up jobs by criteria that are not within the framework of a market competition. It is about situations where a public official sets up jobs for companies in which he, his wife, children or near relatives are owners or co-owners. In such situations a public official and associated persons earn incomes that may also enable profit, where the position in which it is used is immorally. This is why it is important that this bill restricts the situation, or prohibits it. The purpose of this Act is not only to respect the procedure for entering the European Union and thus to bring Croatian legislation into line with the European Union. This Law also has great importance for the functioning of the Croatian rule of law. The fight against corruption Croatian is a national interest, it best stresses the importance of such a legal proposal as well as the seriousness of the situation in which Croatian society is located because let's not forget last year's evaluations of international experts to fight corruption that Croatia put on the top of the list of corrupt countries, 53 cities out of 103 countries. Based on the level of political corruption. Just showing up on a list like this is loud enough for an emergency. Corruption and nepotism, apart from potentiating apathy as the sociological consequences of the economic social crisis, do unimaginable damage to the Croatian economy and market development by detiming potential investors and market competition. And so we can really say that corruption is one of the biggest obstacles to economic development. Only last fall when we passed this law that will change today's changes one good move was ruined by a government amendment at the last minute. The amendment eased the provision to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. The opposition of today's government, then, has warned the government loudly that it has eased the provisions on preventing conflicts of interest to create a place for further uninterrupted political business engagement of the then Minister for Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction and then the President of the Croatian Parliament. The government amendment remains an open door to malfeasances and further abuses, especially since the state is not prohibited from concluding business with companies in which a state official has ownership interests. This amendment, and then such a law only covers the behaviour of state officials who used their position to please their own company or those who buy expensive yachts worth more than a million kunas declare that they have absolutely no property. Without any doubt, today as well as then, it can be claimed that the government then displayed all hypocrisy and annulled the intensity of the law. In such a text, the law was adopted for pre-election purposes and its application was thus only for the new government, either at that time being considered, since it had been busy with some other very often entrepreneurial activities during its term of office. However, today’s government has decided to amend the Law very quickly and firmly and significantly strengthen and extend the provisions on jobs and duties as well as the occasions for incompatible officials. Finally, I support this bill in the hope that it creates at least a basic legal basis for fighting one of the greatest monsters of Croatian society, corruption and nepotism. What follows will last much longer and will not be so easy to solve. We all have to be equally happy about the appointment of someone to function. Godfathers, relatives, wives, and children cannot be happier than ordinary voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13987	I thank the honourable representative. To correct the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13988	Mr. President, an esteemed colleague has said an unspeakable lie not to use a little harder dictionary, saying that this law was passed only in pre-election time. First of all, you need to know that let your colleagues who were formerly, how painful it was to adopt this Law, therefore, he fell at the time but it is not true that he was brought in only pre-election time for the sake of the elections itself because the government was dealing with another problem. This was also hers, one of her important issues and to remind you, that the coalition government has also adopted a national anti-corruption programme, that it has signed a series.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13989	I'd like to thank the honourable MPs. You haven't corrected the incorrect, he's the law passed in pre-election time, that's the esteemed representative said. That's how it worked out. Replica, you can't, you didn't get the word. I can. Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13990	Short replica. There's a lot of talk here about how bad the law was passed for an ex-convening parliament and blaming the government. This is what we as rightists agree with, because we were not satisfied with the text of the law that was adopted then in the Croatian Parliament. The HDZ colleagues are tripping now, but they are rightly tripping. But what they don't do is get the law back to the original part. From the Croatian party of law. Because that law was adopted in this form in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as Letica used to say today and elsewhere. If that's where it's supposed to be, why don't we do it here? So we have a chance. We have the opportunity to bring again, to pass such a law where we can regulate everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13991	Thank you. The replica was reported by the respected representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13992	Well, I'd like to pollute with a colleague about it. He said this law would solve or prevent corruption. So this is not the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, this is the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest in Public Liaison, it's something quite different. Corruption unfortunately exists, corruption will exist when this law is passed in any form. Corruption is something that is criminal and corruption should be dealt with by some other state bodies, by the state's attorney, police, etc., not by the commission to prevent conflicts of interest. This law defines only the rules and the way public duties behave in relation to a very limited segment of public activities, so it has nothing to do with corruption. And what you were talking about wasn't corruption, it was perhaps more immoral than it was corrupt. And corruption will be today and probably still exist today, regardless of which government was in the Republic of Croatia, because it is impossible to eradicate it either in Croatia or in other countries. It would be interesting to see at this point and at some point to see how many godmothers, relatives and friends are located in the supervisory boards of state-owned companies or companies owned by the Republic of Croatia as well as in the past, compare only.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13993	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of the Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13994	A very short answer. Well, of course it's not the same corruption and preventing conflicts of interest. However, this conflict of interest very often leads to corruption in large proportions, and in this sense I spoke about corruption, nepotism. And I would also like to see as much as I did four years ago those 200 richest families in Croatia that you talked about so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13995	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13996	Mr. Vice President, distinguished members of the government's representatives, colleagues and colleagues. The conflict of interest in the conduct of public duties is certainly a concept that can be defined in a wide variety of ways and always from the oldest organised societies has caused great attention, debate and public interest that exceeds the normal relationship and society and individuals according to a certain law. The issue of principled debates also raises the question, is it even possible to strictly distinguish private from public in the pursuit of any activity? Where these subtle borders are, where the legislator must intervene, that the conduct of public duties does not become exclusively the purpose of the material and other interests of individuals, i.e. that as far as possible, it is impossible to take public duties as means of achieving material benefit in the first instance and by law of the prescribed rights. And the question arises, can the law alone solve all the problems that arise unequivocally in all societies in a wide variety of forms, and we find them in terms of the concepts, nepotism, the direct impact of making decisions in the public sphere of business, the privilege and so on. Certainly not only by law, but it represents the foundation, the foundation and the first step to define the conflict of interest itself in the first order, and then as much as possible, eradicated and reduced to the least possible measure. Accordingly, it is necessary to move from the legal definition of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, which determines that in the conduct of a public office, officials must not put their private interest above public interest, and conflict of interest is a situation in which the private interests of officials are contrary to the public interest, or where private interest affects or may affect the impartiality of officials in performing public duties. Therefore, the conflict of public and private, and the impartiality of a state official are the basic concepts of the definition of conflict of interest in the exercise of public duties. The law which is in force also defines the principles of action, the behaviour of officials in doubting the existence of conflicts of interest, the processing of the prohibited conduct of government officials, the duty to notify the property situation of officials, the receiving of gifts, regulates the fees to state officials, jurisdiction and work, the handling of the commission to resolve conflicts of interest, and determines sanctions for breach of the law in question. However, what I would like to emphasise, by the final proposal, is that this law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties absolutely improves the normative resolution of the applicable law in the next segments. First, it precisely determines who is considered an official in terms of the application of the law. Secondly, the right of officials to receive and retain gifts is limited. Third, a circle of tasks, i.e. activities that an official may carry out during the conduct of his duties, is expanded. Fourthly, shares and shares owned by officials in companies are reduced. Fifthly, it is possible for officials to be members of the supervisory board of commercial companies under a certain condition. And sixthly, there is an obligation to report to the commission any income beyond regular income and wages. Therefore, it is precisely determined who is considered a state official in terms of amending the law, which extends the circle of persons, and which also refers to the chief secretary of the Constitutional Court, the secretary of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the State Secretary, the Deputy Secretary of State, the central state offices, as well as the President of the Republic, the Director and Assistant Director of the Croatian Employment Service, mayors and mayors of the city of Zagreb, the Mayor of Zagreb and his deputy mayors and municipal chiefs, as well as the presidents of the municipal councils, who act as municipal chiefs. So this circle of persons is covered by this final bill. Furthermore, it limits the right of state officials to receive and retain gifts as I have already said, in a way that abandons the resolution of this law which is in force to retain a gift, that is still a legal, definition, that is, in that way the existing law regulates it, the value up to the amount of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, and introduces a new criterion, i.e. a solution by which only symbolic value can be maintained, up to the value of 500 kuna from the same donor. In addition to the activities permitted so far, scientific, teaching and cultural officials may carry out the tasks and other educational and sports activities, if this is not contrary to the exercise of public duties, officials may carry out agricultural or independent professional activities, crafts or activities of the family economy. A provision is amended on the basis of which officials holding 0,5 and more shares or shares in a company must transfer their management rights to another person or particular body. It shall be possible for officials to be members of supervisory boards of special national interest but without the right to compensation, other than the right to compensation for travel and other expenses and the obligation to report to the Commission for the purpose of recording each income of officials outside of regular pay and regular income. Finally, the amendment of the law lays down in more detail those situations which clearly constitute a conflict of interest in the conduct of public duties than is done by the basis of the applicable law. The final proposal itself should therefore be accepted as a better solution and, of course, apply it without exception in practice. And allow me, Mr. Vice President, just two more sentences and regarding the discussion and last session of the Constitution Committee, the Rules of Procedure and the political system where we have, in fact, unanimously adopted amendments to the existing solutions and I do not doubt that, as a quality solution, it will also enter into the text of this proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13997	I thank the esteemed representative Tomljanovic. It is up to the distinguished representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13998	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues! I support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest in the conduct of public duties, which corrects some of the illogicalities of the law which we are now carrying out changes and additions. I would just like to say that I am a parliamentary representative in the first term and, from the very beginning, we have debated and brought amendments and additions to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials. These were mostly changes and supplements for the reduction of rights. But I'm afraid our citizens, those who listen to us and look at us, don't have that impression and don't think that we're actually dealing with ourselves and increasing our rights. The objective of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties adopted at the end of the term of office of the former government and of the current amendments and additions shall go with this objective to prevent conflict of interest, which is stated in Article 1(2) that this is a situation in which the private interests of officials are in conflict with public interests or where the private interest affects and may affect the over-biasedness of officials in the exercise of public duty. Of course I'm against such a conflict of interest. But I'm asking myself and all of us. As one doctor why he performs surgery, duty, review, works as a member of a committee, a teacher who teaches as well as many others who, within their professions, call and professions, perform the tasks they have done before, may be in conflict of interest, or may do so but cannot receive compensation. It's actually a point I'd say about a lack of logic and unreality that makes it difficult to implement the law itself and leads to a negative selection and that sort of thing. I believe that by working in the Parliament, as well as other jobs for which we have been educated, we need to carry out these tasks with utmost conscience, responsibility, impartiality, and by this work, they will appreciate us and not because we will not work in the course of our profession and education. Besides, I've often heard and listened to findings that he or she has to say when they've never done anything, they don't have a day's work experience and that sort of thing. I therefore support the adoption of the proposed law so that the commission can deal with those who are indeed in conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u13999	I thank the esteemed representative Lelic. It is up to the honourable representative of Miroslav Korenik. I apologize, you answered, this is not a debate, for correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14001	For the correction? I was thinking about the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14002	No, no. To correct an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14003	I'm sorry. At its 5th session on 23 March 2004, the Croatian Parliament accepted that the 18th item of the agenda be the proposal for a decision on a list of companies of special state interest. However, the debate on the proposal for a decision has not been conducted at all. At its 6th session on 21 April 2004, the Croatian Parliament accepted that the 22nd item of the agenda be the proposal for a decision on a list of companies of special state interest. From this session, the government withdrew a list of companies, and it is not true that the government brought the list. He's not in this session.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14004	Thank you. And last for correcting the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14005	I ask Mr. Palaric to read carefully. Article 11(6) is said to have been required by the Croatian Parliament to produce a list. Article 19 also provides for sanctions, he said there were no sanctions. The sanctions referred to in paragraph 4 shall also be provided for. Second, the most important thing is that it is so indirectly the Government and acknowledges it in its Article 14 of this bill. So, what are we talking about then? So technically it's a matter of conflict of interest that's not de facto because there's no compensation, but, let's be clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14006	Okay. Thank you. With this, we have finished correcting the incorrect allegations and for discussion, the distinguished representative Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14007	I'm sorry, I thought it was my turn, so that's how I started. Here is my thanks for the initiative and I am pleased that the SDP has proposed Mr Tonci Tadic as the seventh member of the commission. I hope that the Parliament will also support such a proposal and that the commission will be complete and that we will be composed of seven members. That's before my hearing. I would start and explain some of the committee's activities because all the time it has been called that the commission has done nothing, and I will start with our first session on February 6, 2004, and the commission has reached the conclusion that it warns the government, to warn the President of the Republic and President of the Parliament of their obligations, which they must base on the Law on preventing conflicts of interest. The first item of our letter was directed to the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader, and was addressed this way: Implementation of the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. Under point 1 we informed President Snader and said that the Government should adopt the regulation referred to in Article 20(4) that is a gift regulation. Under point 2, we have informed where we say, the Government should urgently propose to the Parliament a list of companies of special state interest. The letter was sent on 9 February, and we said this: Article 11(6). The Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is prescribed that only exceptional officials may be members of supervisory committees in state-owned companies or in which the state has a majority stake, but of particular national interest, but without the right to any compensation or receipt of a gift, other than the right to compensation for travel and other costs, and that the Croatian Parliament shall establish a list of companies of special state interest on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the law does not set the deadline for the Government to submit such a proposal and the Parliament to establish a list, but until no official or supervisory board member can do so in any commercial company, so I ask you to provide the list to the Commission as soon as possible, and in order to follow that provision, also to submit the proposal to the Commission. Such a letter was sent to Prime Minister Sanader on 9 February, and by the way, I would like to say that it is scandalous that the government spokesman Mr. Macek calls out parliamentary representatives if they know, whether or not they know about the laws, and by the way, we know that Mr. Macek was the average HTV correspondent from Čakovec. I would now return to the provisions of the laws that I personally disagree with, and also some of the members of the commission, which is in the first order the abolition of the commission's office. By order to abolish the commission's office, the commission automatically loses its independence and becomes dependent on the Parliament and on the will of the parliamentary staff to respect our needs for either space or equipment, or for the employment of employees. Why don't I agree with this? I disagree for the simple reason that this is justified by some reduction in the administrative apparatus. There is no pattern in any other regulatory body because there is a Securities Commission, there is a Competition Protection Agency and I am not listing any further, and I will bring the underlying problem directly. When I asked for a legal advisor to be employed who would do and do commission work, then I received the answer that there were no problems, the President of the Parliament has three legal advisers, so he can lend us a legal advisor for 15 minutes a day. I think that this legal advisor would be very helpful to us and these 15 minutes, I think it's enough to work and here's a good thing for us to accept it. In the meantime, I tried to solve this way and find a lawyer to help us at least to get an opinion on what we were going through and what we had already started to bring to the commission and I managed to find a lawyer who volunteered for a month and a half, but in the meantime, she got tired of volunteering because there was no way to accept it either. So by abolishing the Office of the Commission and by transferring it to the professional services of the Assembly, I believe that the independence of the commission is, in any case, very questionable if not impossible. Furthermore, I would like to point out one more thing that is totally illogical in this proposal that we have received from the Government, which is a matter of appeal to certain sanctions that the Commission can impose and, above all, even where it is said it should, just a little quote exactly as it says, that it should be to the Supreme Court in order for these complaints to be brought to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Let me explain the response of the Supreme Court President to that government initiative. As President of the Supreme Court of the Republic, this is a letter of 5 April, "As President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, I have sent a letter to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in which I have expressed my view that there is no constitutional basis for the authority to decide on complaints against decisions of the commission to decide the conflict of interest to refer to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, with respect to President Ivica Crnic." That's what I think the government either overlooked or didn't see that memo, but it would be very good to consider what comes to her address and it's important for the law to be passed. Another thing that's pretty badly defined in this proposal is the time to submit property cards. It is defined for a period of 30 days, I must first explain how the Commission has made a decision on how to deal with these property cards or more precisely how it should be in the asset reports, the Commission is tasked with receiving around 2000 of these property reports, must insert it into the computer means in the database and the moment he receives the property report needs that officer from whom the report came to his accounting or accounting, but the paying authority shall notify him that his salary may be paid. Why the Commission has not discussed the property card to this day, for the simple reason it means the form of the property cards of our own, not the ones we took over from the President of the Parliament, but our property cards, the proposal is over but for the simple reason that when we publish these property cards, we must be prepared to receive 2,000 property cards and give people the opportunity to receive the pay. If we don't give them the opportunity to receive the salary, it turns out that we in the commission don't want to or brake the pay, we don't want to take it on ourselves because we don't think we have staff and we're not ready to confirm that reception and allow people to receive the pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14008	I thank the honourable representative. To correct the incorrect allegations, the honourable representative of Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14009	Mr. Kapraljevic said that Mr. Ratko Maček was a respected HTV correspondent from Čakovec, I must say that it was not true he was the head of HTV correspondence from Čakovec, perhaps even too optimistic to say that he was an average who was at the same time in conflict of interest because he was at the same time on HTV and in conflict of interest because according to some internal rules of HTV he was co-owner of a local television.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14010	I thank you for correcting the incorrect assumption, so it wasn't transparent, it was above the average we understood. For the replica, the distinguished representative of the Korenika, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14011	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We heard here Mr. Kapraljevic listed us a series of activities in the work of the Committee. I'm very glad that despite the difficult conditions we've heard, we haven't had enough people, it's unfulfilled and they don't have any associates who have to help work, regardless of the commission occasionally appears with the results of my work, and I'm now asking questions and semi-liminals, which are reasons why for the evidence of conflict of interest and according to this law, and according to the Law on the Rights of the Civilian, I'm not going to list names because there are currently no names here who have received money for working on the supervisory boards through the gyro-account, all you know is why you still haven't given a solution to it and why you don't inform the public, I can't believe that the reasons for not having enough people for the evidence, you might be able to answer the replica to say what these reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14012	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14013	I have to respond to the replica, but it is true that we have a complaint against some officials, but you know very well that we only have a secretary from staff. In order to bring in or to launch an investigation into the law, we write an investigation we can launch and need all the authorities of the executive authority to assist us. We don't have a legal advisor first and we don't have a single lawyer who would arrange for a session that would run, we don't have a head of office, we don't have a lawyer to launch an investigation, and we can't do it right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14014	Thank you. The replica was reported by the esteemed representative Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14015	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I wouldn't be pollemising with our distinguished colleague whose work on the Committee of course I strongly support but with the thesis that has come and contained in this letter from the Supreme Court. I may argue that the Supreme Court wants less jurisdiction of particularly sensitive jurisdiction but there is no constitutional prohibition for the Supreme Court to be in charge, and such a letter can also be given to the President of the Administrative and any court why, because the Constitution simply says that the jurisdiction of the courts is determined by law. I personally strongly support the government's version of the Supreme Court's decision, precisely because I greatly appreciate the Supreme Court, and I think it's our highest court, which will quickly and in a way that protects the dignitaries' dignity to solve the case. I like the version of the Administrative Court a lot less because we know that unfortunately because of the overload of objects there lasts three, four, five years. And in particular, the appeal must be suspended.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14016	Thank you. For the replica, Honorable representative Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14017	I fully agree that no company can be without a supervisory board at any time, because the Supervisory Board is an important part of the management of these companies, but if we agree that it cannot be in enterprises that are in majority state-owned, then we must ensure that it is the same with companies owned by units of local or regional, regional self-government. It would therefore be good to add Article 14 to the way in which not only does it define the possibility for such companies to be designated as state-owned companies in the company itself but also to be designated as units of local, regional, regional, regional self-government until the representative bodies of those units of local self-government have established a list of these companies, because now, according to this Act, within 8 days, there would be no meeting of the supervisory boards, mayors, mayors and deputy mayors, and it is quite certain that no assembly, no city or municipal council would be held just because within 8 days of the publication of this Law a list of these companies would be established. Therefore, Article 14 may well define the same right for units of local regional self-government as it takes for itself the right of the state, or the Croatian Parliament as regards the conflict of interest of officials in these supervisory committees, as at the moment all mayors and mayors who are on supervisory committees in the same status as ministers in the supervisory boards of state firms.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14018	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative, Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14019	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. By listening to this debate about this final bill, I must actually look back on the elemental matter, which is, what is the purpose and purpose of the existence of this law. The purpose was, and we were particularly concerned about this in HSP, especially me who was the party's leader in charge of the implementation of this project, the purpose of this law was to disable the most dangerous form of corruption, which is the means of high policy and business. That's the meaning of this law and that should be the aim of the commission's work. Everything else that's been spinning around here, some kind of property card, the right to write columns, the duties that people perform, the monitoring boards, all that other stuff is just trees from which you can't see the woods. I remind you again what the whole story is all about? The purpose is to make it impossible to read jobs, to set jobs through its political function. It's a conflict of interest. These are therefore situations in which the official is found and when he is in doubt whether he will act in behalf of the public good or act in behalf of his own good. So it's a situation where the damage of the state for its bias is enormous, and in which he hurts his own business. These are situations that need to be dealt with by the Commission for conflict of interest. I repeat, everything else is just trees from which you can't see the forest. The importance of this law is exceptional for Croatia. I will read here a quote from the law itself when it was adopted in the Parliament, so the law that came to the Assembly as a proposal is based on the work of the joint Working Group of HSP and the Ministry of Justice in the previous session. Such cooperation today is simply unimaginable under such circumstances with this debate. But here I will read the fact that the Council of Europe, that the European Commission, that all possible European institutions have highlighted the importance of fighting corruption in the first place as an absolute priority for all possible European integration processes in candidate countries. If you do not have an effective mechanism to fight corruption, why do you need four hundred laws adapted to the requirements of the European Union? Who are we cheating on? Which is why we will have parties in Ban Jelačić Square because we have obtained candidate status for the Union if we do not yet have an effective Anti-Corruption Act in Croatia, and if we do not have a commission that implements an effective and good Law on conflict of interest. What kind of Europe are we playing? We're acting the last... Balkan way, actually, that's what this is about. So it is that this law, if it is effective and well implemented, is important for the development of democracy in Croatia. Because it prevents the use of democratic institutions to personally enrich individuals with dishonest actions. It is important for investment in Croatia. Because in Croatia no one will invest, if they compete with a company owned by a minister, who I've hurt my business with. It's important, of course, to join the Union. Because we're insecure as a candidate. I'm not saying that in other countries there is no corruption, I'm not saying that even those who have now entered the Union are not really flowers. But we are against corruption and against this most dangerous corruption in the form of conflicts of interest, so damage to business, furniture business, we must fight for ourselves, for our own sake. So, as for the gifts that were mentioned. The whole story with gifts, with what a gift it is, who's gonna take it up in a document that was a thread of leadership, and that's... It is a Canadian law of conflict of interest, in that law it is very clear. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] The gift is not dangerous because it is a gift, but a gift is dangerous because it affects the bias of the officials, so the official will act on this gift in such a way that he will not look at the public interest, but will try to harm his business, either his business partner or his party colleague or member of his rope or his wider family. The Board of Supervisors, again. I have to read that 82% of citizens, i.e. 17%, generally fully 65%, according to polls, agree with the ban on the appointment of officials to boards or boards of directors. That's the facts. Now we can say whatever we want. But the Croatian people, our public thinks it's not good to have politicians on boards because they can use that position to set up jobs, even if they don't get paid. Unfortunately, despite the fact that such a position was unanimous in the working group made up of HSP representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Justice in the past term, we still got at the end of the law that mic per mit went further than that basic model proposed by HSP in the Croatian Parliament. So there was the story of those 25% of the shares that were not dangerous, and there was also the signature of some special companies that could be on the board, and then all of this came up with a list of officials who had already taken up two pages, so it went to the expansion of all of this to local self-government despite my desperate warnings that we were getting into the same situation as Bulgaria, which had the same commission burdened with the drive of conflict of interest in local self-government, where it was equally important or more important whether Pero Kum Štefu had set up a cheap stand on some salary, rather than whether another Ivan had set up a job for some other godmother Peri for his company to build social housing. That's what I'm talking about. Bulgarians were in this situation, and I am in vain lucky that this model, i.e. very similar to the law created by the joint working body of the HSP and the Ministry of Justice, is being applied in both BiH and Georgia today and across a number of eastern countries. What I need all along, when here in Croatia we actually have a law that came very far from that initial model that I started writing that law with. So, I wanted to have a plane to fly, and meanwhile that plane was equipped with a plow, and on the way down the runway when it took off, he was added a pair of hedgehogs, and that easier to fly, he got two more balloons and a helicopter elis, but along with all that, there are no pilots and no engines. So that's the state in which today's law. And that's why Mr. Kapraljevic and the rest of the SDP that you're offering me now to lead this committee, I'm telling you, listen, I'd be leading that commission if that law were the same as it was under the hammer of a task force for St. Antu last year. By law, HSP would be pleased, but anything further goes on with it, you actually get a law that's inconclusive. And now the man wonders, what can really be the point of the commission not getting a list of companies that are allowed to be on board, that this commission has no money to function to this day, that we are already going to enter into an entendment of the law, that none of the... Guys from the former government who were actually one of the main causes of the Employers' Association to insist on the adoption of the Law on conflict of interest, that none of them actually got caught up or what a colleague here would have said that nothing bad had happened to him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's the point of doing all the wonders with the property cards because I repeat the property card is not the point. The point is, does a man have business connections and does he use these business connections to read jobs? It's not the point of writing columns, it's the point of whether or not a man's doing business. My people, the main thing is to read and set up jobs and do damage to the state by using that position to negotiate such transactions that are ultimately harmful to the state. All of this together actually brings us to the key question of whether it's really so random, whether it's an incredible set of coincidences or whether it's really someone in the ruling majority, and in today's government, it cares that the whole system doesn't work. If so, then the people of this country have a deep picture of their own fate and of Croatia's fate in the fight against corruption. My wish was when this law was passed, especially when the composition of the commission was adopted to be a fruit of consensus but everything that happened here when the composition of the commission was adopted, all that was said in my account because it really gave a very clear indication of what would eventually be with this law in its implementation. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is a serious disgrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14020	I thank the honourable representative, Tadic. We've completed a ten-minute debate. We still have two five-minute clubs. Club LIBRE Honorable Representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14021	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Here, I can't help but think that my colleague Tadic definitely signed any inability to be found at any time other than the other side of the time at the Committee of Conflict of Interest because, indeed, after such an appearance of great arguments, he has actually sealed his fate. If he didn't get lonely and let it not sound pathetic, I'd like to say something that's almost unusual for Croatian occasions and say Tonchi wouldn't be lonely. Maybe I'll join him. I've never been on any surveillance board in my life, ever. It's amazing, but it's true and it's possible and it's possible. Of course there are people like that, I'm sorry if I may have caused someone, but there is a possible situation, and such a situation is, dear colleagues and good friends, it should be a challenge. I am not talking about what I want to point out to myself or Mr. Tadic, but because I think there are examples that would simply have to be justified as a good orientation, like a good and reliable traffic sign of what these values are and how we can actually behave. And make it sound pathetic again. In fact, the Club LIBRE wants to send that message and that there are values in this society and that contrary to those values that we want to cultivate and that we stand for and that in many of the speeches we have heard here we get rubber law, a law that actually avoids this exactly which is what today is tragic consequences in our society that is deeply wounded, whose will be wounded. As it turns out and there's no need to overexplain this wound of a social being, in fact, and of a national being. General mistrust in everything and everything. There are so many stereotypes that simply determine everything is corrupt, everything is bad, authority and institution is simply zero. Can we agree on that here? Can we look the truth into the eyes and tell really it's about rubber law, let's face it that we need to respond to what that wounded social being is looking for and that's a perfectly clearly defined game rule. And what's the minimum in defined game rules? So give a commission that will be composed of people how our language is unfair and a woman of course who will be professional, who will be competent. These are general places but which will primarily work independently, which will be provided financially and which will be secured by staff. Everything else is just a blur and a story that wants to set up another tower and everything so that we don't actually face the consequences. So who's going to be responsible? I don't want to carry it because I don't belong to that basket where those who blur and the same tower are taken. Therefore, if the commission does not seem to have full independence, human and financial independence simply does not want to solve the problem. Mr. Palarić, we all know you're a great lawyer, but don't do your homework. It's quite clear that this was about homework. And by the way, support for counterpart Adlesic, who also points to the centre of the problem. No real estate card, no stories, no plays. Tax card as a mandatory which gives unquestionable and unequivocal information about who we are, which is what we are, and whether we are at all in a literal sense, but in this sense act as citizens of a disciplined conscience to answer the basic question that it is. Are we really citizens in this country consciously fulfilling their obligation? What other obligation, fellow Churchman, should a citizen be fulfilled when it is indeed, apart from fulfilling exactly that tax obligation, which is subsequently a symbol of the exercise of any other obligation and begins to naturally enforce its rights. So, Club Libre not that he can't support this law but he does in front of his eyes and doesn't see the law, doesn't see what needs to be met by the needs of a wounded social being. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14022	I thank the esteemed representative Herman. On behalf of the SDP Club, the Honorable Representative. I'm sorry. Correction of an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14023	Thank you very much. Mr. William Herman said that Mr. Tadic's exposure sealed his fate regarding potential membership in the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Dear colleague Herman, that's incorrect. I am convinced that even at this session, the ruling majority will accept the opposition's position and, unanimously, together with us, support his choice in the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14024	Thank you. It is on behalf of the SDP Club, the respected representative Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14025	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The SDP Club has been reviewing this law and thinks that the proposed amendments represent an improvement in the original text of the law and will support the law, with some hope for repairs, there are some amendments, and we hope that some of them will be accepted. However, I would return to what several MPs have already said, which is the essence of this law and what is the essence of the commission's work. It is a new experience, and I must say that I am, in part and impressed by the tenacity of how the commission and its own, not its own, but our children's disease is mastering and opening up a new space. However, there is something that should always be kept in mind, and it seems to me that so far we haven't all had until the end, and that's what has already been pointed out by a respected colleague, Tadic, and that is not the point of the law to consider in the commission whether someone for the article in the list X has received 600-800 kuna, whether the minister who holds the infirmary has received 200 or 400 kuna, however. It is the law to prevent those great abuses of politics and the Commission must concentrate on it. If they're going to waste time on these little things then what many warn about will happen, that in fact, from the trees we won't actually see the forest. Therefore, my recommendation and colleagues from the bench on this side of the assembly, concentrate in the application of the law, because applying the law is something that you can largely not only get from the text of the regulation but will depend on your will, your intensity, your orientation, focus on big important things and not on some small things. I also think it's because of the height of a profession where some of you are constantly and permanently likely for your entire working life and some of us are probably temporary and very short. Let's keep us and our professions up. Let's not, I don't think it worked out in the first steps of the Committee, we've been a little busy, you've seen the reactions, the reactions that were in the media, so it's not the point that the public is kind of experiencing whether someone has a 100-square apartment or has 120 squares. Especially for those who haven't gotten into politics. The point is to compare what someone had before entering politics or in part of the mandate, which is later and see if they acquired it legally and in a way that does not constitute conflict of interest. Everything else is excess and degradation of those people sitting in these benches and over in this building and other buildings where government officials are sitting. Of those things that you would somehow put on your soul, on your proposer's soul, look at some of these practical sides so as not to be inexhaustible solutions, it seems to me to me in that self-execution of activity and some other things, that's one thing. And secondly, I really think that if not for others, I think that it is too wide and I agree, it should throw out the vice-presidents and proprietors because those government officials are not, it is in line with the constitutional, constitutionally defined autonomy of the university and there are also private universities and what right we would place them among state officials. I thank and hope that the Committee will follow the spirit of law, intensity and work as it has gone hard but to the welfare of both society and our professions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14026	Thank you. And on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Palaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14027	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank all those who have debated this important law, especially those who support the adoption of this law. We in the Government believe that the meaning of this Law is defined in Article 1(2), which is to eliminate the conflict of private and public interest and not to create a professional structure of people who do nothing but deal with politics. And that's why we tried to focus on the essence of the law and even strengthen the role of the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, risking being accused of proposing immunity where it doesn't belong. And we believe that the Parliament's professional services will provide technical support and that this commission will do what it was founded for, and that is to be one link in eliminating corruption in Croatian society. Not the only one, not the exclusive because we cannot eliminate the role of the judiciary, the role of the state's attorney, the USKOK and all those who have to fight crime. To that end, to take a step forward in this solution to this problem and to take a step further in restoring citizens' trust in institutions and Croatian officials and to refuse insinuations that state officials are in the great majority in conflict of interest I propose that we support this Law, that the Commission continue its work and deal with those matters that are important in their role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14028	Thank you. We've completed our discussion on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14029	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! At first, I have to say that I am afraid that the adoption of this law in this way simply continues to be rough talks and negotiations on how much there is in the conflict of interest and I am afraid, once again, it stresses that it turns out in Croatian society that they are MPs, most often representatives of the stumbling block and people who are most often and most often in conflict of interest. I think that we will all agree together that however representatives of the executive government are at all levels, far greater opportunities have to be in conflict of interest, decide some jobs unlike us representatives who can lobby often and lobby for their end but most often and certainly are not in conflict of interest. It also seems to me that the list of all those who are state officials, or who in this case are officials, may be too wide for some, but it seems to me that the Government, and the previous one, and the current one, is not until the end of principle when it comes to it. Some colleagues have already spoken before, if we know what the importance of the city of Zagreb is then certainly the president or president of the City Assembly may and must be a person who will be in conflict of interest and certainly the influence of that person cannot be an influence on the head of a municipality that has between a thousand and two, three thousand inhabitants. That's why we look at the conflict of interest, and I am particularly afraid that if there are direct elections for me because I am also talking about that the Law on Local Self-Government Elections will change and that we will have direct elections for municipal mayors and mayors will have a very negative selection because people who live and work in small municipalities are usually volunteers who want to benefit from their own end, the well-being of their municipalities, who work often and without any compensation, who have to live from something. We are in capitalism, people have private businesses, people own these private companies that most often do not have or almost have any common or touching points of their business work with what is done in a municipality or a smaller town. In this way, at the beginning, we eliminate the possibility that such people who are capable and who have visions of simply facing each other and working towards the progress of their own environment. It also seems much more opportunistic to me, and this has been said here that the local self-government that has its own autonomy might be prescribed a legal obligation to determine at its level the issue of conflict of interest. In this way we place a large number of local officials that they are and will be in conflict of interest and at the same time we must be aware that I will also quote Article 7 of the amendment and addition of this Act where paragraph 6 is said to be changed and it is said that extremely officials may be members of supervisory committees in companies of particular national interest. Here, ladies and gentlemen, you don't put up what the state needs to have. In the original text of the law that we are now changing, it was said that it must be a majority share. This time it also means much less shares which makes sense because, for example, INA or Hrvatski Telekom we have and significantly lower values are higher but immediately below in paragraph 7 that changes when units of regional and local self-government are committed there it remains that it must be a majority share. Dear ladies and gentlemen, there is no logic here, there is no principle because for the Varazdin County or for some, several municipalities that have joint municipal companies, which have a joint water pipeline, it is very important to have their own representative, so it may have been the municipal head of the municipal company if they want to affect the work of these companies, it is this that from or some smaller municipalities that have less than 25% plus one share if I am a good interpreter and I am afraid that even that. The majority share means that you must have 50% plus one vote if the company shares 50.1%, or 50.1%, of the limited liability company. I'd rather have a principle policy then, if we had equal rules of conduct for the state, for local and regional self-government. I must also say that I am very sorry that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests obviously, at least I don't know, is not doing its job for which it was founded. Is it because another member of the opposition ranks has not been elected, and I must say that the net of information that the opposition has not agreed? The SDP representative club withdrew Ms. Milanka Opačić's candidacy in favour of counterpart Tadic, because we have all stopped and we believe that he will perform his role in the Committee very correctly. The move is on most of this High House. Therefore, it is very easy to prevent the commission from having an adequate number of members if there is a good will. It seems to me that there is a good will in our opposition. I would also like to know, perhaps a representative of the government here knows because the President of the Committee can't discuss the reasons why there are a large number of pending cases that went towards the Committee where we have conflicts of interest, we have violations of previous laws. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let us not forget that the Law and Amendments to the Law on the Rights of State officials and formerly state officials could have been on the Supervisory Boards but without receiving any compensation. Unfortunately, we have cases where officials receive or still even receive compensation for their work, it is submitted to the Committee for Conflict of Interest and I do not understand why the public is not familiar with the results of the Committee's work on it. When we talk about corruption and nepotism, I'm afraid the lower the level, the more nepotism and the more potential for influence on, the more conflict of interest. There are more options, easier to deal with, and it seems to me that we will have to change the Public Procurement Act very quickly and in this way probably come to a better and better solution. Since I was one of those who was and when this Law was passed, I'm afraid the law is necessary, it's not at all questionable. Is he good enough like this, I don't think he is?- I'm sorry. But better any law and one more accent. It should be insisted that local self-government but also the state, the government must have equal deadlines, we will also have some principles about the adoption of certain sublaws. As we know, the government has proposed to us a list of companies of state interest. There, we know that in this list, unfortunately, and we find it a failure of government bodies and agencies that didn't even come to know how many shares they had in certain companies, even in certain societies they were, they weren't even put on such a list, and they were companies worth several hundred million kunas, and for example, there were companies that had a share of the state of 50 or 60 thousand kuna. That is why local self-government should also give appropriate deadlines to adapt to this law because I do not live in delusions and illusions that this law in a way that is not perfect will not pass. Also, gentlemen from the majority coalition if the previous Government and the previous majority stake in the Parliament failed to list and publish a list of the 200 richest families, it is up to you... I hope you'll brief us on this very quickly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14030	I thank the honourable representative. It's the honourable representative's turn, and I'm sorry, on behalf of the motionary. Mr. Palaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14031	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, I've reported that you wouldn't stay in the air as a doubt because they said in their statement that parliamentary deputies can hardly come to the test of conflict of interest, that conflict of interest is present in the executive government. I am responsible for saying that executive and executive officials are not in conflict of interest and if you know what individual case you choose to report it to the Commission but it is not good to talk about several hundred people working in the executive authority. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14032	Thank you. There's an esteemed representative, a correction to an incorrect quote, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14033	Mr. Secretary of State, I'm afraid you haven't listened to me very carefully. It is an undeniable fact and I am correcting your claim, I said and stand behind it, that MPs are much harder to come into conflict of interest than those who are in executive power, at the end of this law is a complete government and, by force of other laws, individual ministers are appointed to the supervisory boards of individual companies of state interest, or where the state is in majority ownership and we must admit that whether we want it or not, given the lack of a list of companies of state interest, that these ministers, or members of the executive government, are in conflict of interest. I know it's hard to accept, but these are facts that we can't just run away from.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14034	It is next to the esteemed convict Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14035	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. State officials in company supervisory committees are a top-class political topic particularly attractive these days. The conflict of interest of politicians, regardless of whether they are parliamentary representatives, ministers, assistants, state secretaries, is something that the public gives a special secret, something that the public is particularly sensitive to. It is something that is inadmissible and unacceptable to every society and especially to developed democracies. The central question is how and how to address this problem of personal, individual interest and broad public and social in this case, when it comes to this Law, this refers to officials who are clearly defined by this law. Certainly, this problem is neither easy nor easy, and I would say, if it could be solved and only if the state officials were not in such a position that the members of the supervisory boards in commercial societies or in other functions would then be a form of behaviour that would indeed not be acceptable, because a large number or greatest struggle of state officials, knowingly, responsibly and professionally carry out difficult and responsible tasks in supervisory committees, companies in which the state is the owner. And that's a fact. And that fact should also be respected because of some, a small number of people who are really in conflict of interest, who violate their professional rights and obligations, should not punish everyone else. And I think it's a key and important fact that needs to be highlighted. Certainly this law clarifies all certain problems as they need to be and must be regulated in order to reduce these conflicts of interest as much as possible, but those who are listed here are indeed I would say minor and insignificant. Of course, when it comes to this law, I should really talk about certain restrictions. It is unacceptable and unacceptable for certain civil servants to participate in too many supervisory boards of companies because it is a question of what they can do with a limited amount of time available to them but with limited professional and other competences to be useful in certain places. And that's something that should allow it to be controlled and limited. The conflict of interest cannot be resolved as I have told the restrictions, the ban on state officials to participate in the committees of the people, because if this could be accepted, but certainly after that, if there are no supervisory committees of state officials, some other people appear and the same common issue remains again, which is of interest to all of us and society as to whether conflict of interest exists because this conflict of interest threatens the state, the rule of law, endangers the economy, competitiveness and many others. So I'm going to say the conflict of interest is unfortunately expressed in this society and is not related to one category of people, not related to state officials. It is connected at the end and with many other social groups and is the result of our insufficient professional culture, lack of ethics, professional, administrative and each other and this is something that the organized state pays special attention to certain systematic measures and organised and well-designed education, education of state officials, education of state administration, education of those who manage public or commercial societies. And unfortunately this is the segment that deserves special attention and which can be more successful and quality in solving these problems than restrictions on laws. The illusion is that laws can solve and prevent all these negatives. It is known that almost all quality business schools in the world, unfortunately in Croatia are almost gone, pay particular attention to professional ethics for a wide range of reasons, for reasons not only to prevent conflicts of interest but also to increase competitiveness, professionalism, economy. State administrations and administrations and institutions dealing with the education of state officials and such institutions exist in almost all developed countries also give special attention to the problem. Education has a special role to play in all of this. What is seen from all these discussions so far is that it tries simple normative acts, laws, restrictions that often have a rigid character, to prevent people who know and can do this type of work in the supervisory boards of commercial societies, knowingly in accordance with their obligations, morals and ethics. Fear is visible, however. Fear and concern that some others may be more capable, more engaged, rather than taking part in the extent to which they can and need to make decisions not only in the sphere of public administration and state administration but also in the sphere of certain business decisions, by directing the work of supervision, by directing the work of certain administrations through supervisory committees in commercial societies. So I would say in the end these problems are the problems of education, organised society, the care of the state administration, its education, professional development, ethics, and this is an extremely important component that we haven't talked about today at all. It is unfortunately not quality and free to take, support individual initiatives at all levels according to standards and norms that are common and acceptable for all developed societies. Second, which you would also point out. The conflict of interest is very common and the consequences of the fact of a non-competitive economy, the inability to produce what the English say quality, fast and cheap. If you are unable to do so then it is quite clear that many entrepreneurs and many others require support for other lobbys' policies to ensure that their incompetence is not only in the domestic market but also in the international market compensated for different unacceptable types of lobbying. Therefore, the uncompetitive economy is unfortunately the source of the dangers associated with this kind of unacceptable behaviour and conflict of different interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14036	I thank the honourable representative. We have three replicas. The first in line is the distinguished representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14037	Since there is much talk here today, Mr Vice President, about Article 11(6), I will read it: “Extremely officials may be members of supervisory committees in commercial companies that are state-owned or in which the state has a majority share, and of particular interest are state-owned, but without any right to compensation or receiving a gift other than the right to compensation for travel and other costs.” And then further: “The Croatian Parliament determines the list of companies of special state interest on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.” Do we have that? We don't. It is therefore a conflict of interest. Let us be aware, this is a conflict of interest because that regulation has not been passed. Mr. Palaric can interpret it in any way but this is interpretation both linguistically and grammatically and as it says. It's another important thing. No one is going to convince me that government officials can do these tasks so well in the supervisory committees. Well, they're laws of physics at the same time, at 7, 8 are supervisory committees. I'm telling you. We have young people, doctors, magistrates who are unemployed on the labour market. I'm sure we'd do better than that. And that they would never come into conflict of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14038	Thank you. Next in line is the esteemed, Replication response, please. [[Intruder: Reply to]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14039	The largest number of state officials who perform complementary activities of the type of participation in the supervisory boards of commercial companies in addition to their regular duties shall do so in the best interests of all. There are certainly those who can't do it for different reasons. First limitation, I made it clear and mentioned. It is unacceptable that an individual participates in 10 or 20 supervisory committees because there can really be no use on the supervisory board or itself. Another important restriction is the available knowledge and expertise that individuals have or do not have to benefit from in such bodies. And I said in the end, because of all these facts, we cannot accept a law that would be restrictive, which would prevent all those who carry out their tasks of quality and responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14040	Thank you. The next one came from a respected representative, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14041	Thank you very much. I chose a replica rather than correcting an incorrect quote to give my colleague Cosic the opportunity to correct his initial exposure because he said these days that the main political theme is the work of state officials on supervisory committees and that this is where controversy is being conducted, which is simply not true. This Law states in Article 22 that it will enter into force on the 8th day of its publication in the National Journal. The provisions of Articles 7, 8, 10, 11 and 14 shall apply for a period of 4 months from the date of entry into force, and in Article 11, point 6 clearly states that state and officials may be members of the supervisory boards of commercial companies when appointed by the Government or the Assembly. And that the Croatian Parliament determines the list of these companies. On a proposal from the government. The dispute is that after four months of the 24th of February, there is no record of this departure and the government has appointed state officials to the supervisory boards. Today, the secretary of state said in the introduction that the government is interpreting that they are not contrary to the law, and the government spokesman in the media today tells parliamentary advocates that they cannot read and interpret the rules. Well, people, please. The laws are passed and interpreted by the Parliament by the Government and the Galspeakers of the Government. It is not a dispute and a problem that the Institute is a member of the Supervisory Board, but rather it is a dispute that the Government should not appoint it before the Assembly has adopted a list of these companies. That's all there is to it. February 24th D. Point. Point, Amen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14042	Thank you. Next to the replica, a respected deputy vice president, Doma Arlovic, appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14043	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm actually using this replica to point to a circumstance that is simultaneously impolite as we discuss amending and supplementing the Law of Conflict of Interest. It is almost 100% right, counterpart Cosic, to say that the law cannot fully resolve the issue of conflict of interest and that it can only be an illusion. Or that it can't be solved by restrictions. As a rule, it can't be solved by restrictions, because I agree with that, but restrictions can be one of the means. However, it is even more dangerous if legal solutions create preconditions or appropriate conditions for the prevention of conflicts of interest. And in that pgoled, trust your honorary colleagues and colleagues to ask the question of seriousness on one side of the lawmaker, and on the other hand by ourselves who are passing the laws. And at the same time our consistency on the one hand and consistency on the other. You see, colleagues and colleagues while we discuss this law that needs to be passed, at the same time on the agenda, we have three laws that contain proposals that can lead to conflicts of interest. The first is the law on the transfer of power. Speaking in Article 9, among other things, a contract between the employer and the official will be concluded between... the duty of the former employer, the closer it will determine the conditions and deadlines for the exercise of the right referred to in paragraph 1 when bound to return to work. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] My colleagues and colleagues didn't want this employer's predisposition could set the conditions that are tied up with the rest, or could lead to a position that evenatually lays out the conditions that are in conflict of interest. A similar situation with the draft law amending and supplementing the law on local and regional regional self-government is similar. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, the leaders spoke no more of the agreement than of the agreement, but of the agreement, so the termolgoy is not even. But the same is true of the rest, of the work order and so on, and how will an employer deal with the employer with the fact that the employer actually determines the terms and conditions rather than the official. What a worker he has. Until before, before he became an official, or who must become a re-worker after being too busy to be an official.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14044	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14045	Let me just say it for you to tell the law, because everything is on the agenda today, that is, this session. It's the law and the rights of officials. So we have a consolidation with us because we need to clear up these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14046	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Palaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14047	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is always good to return to the meaning and the definition of conflict of interest and to know what we are saying when we accuse the entire government and many officials of the executive authorities that they are in conflict with the fact that they are members of the supervisory boards of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the conflict of interest is a situation in which the private interests of officials are inexplicable with public interest or where private interest affects or may affect the impartiality of officials in the exercise of public duty. It's an esukob of interest. There is a norm that also exists the transitional provisions of this Law that are clumsy that delay the application of the norm, a norm that has no sanctions. And the government has to apply this law. The government must apply it, the government must apply it responsibly, and it cannot leave commercial companies owned by the Republic of Croatia without a board of directors, because it is one of the key State Brg management instruments for state-owned enterprises on state-owned property matters located in these companies. Therefore, there is no conflict of interest if one of the state officials is in the boards of directors, we think that four months ago could not even be sent to the process of a list of merchants, the government sent him, and what now. And what can happen. Walda can't command the Parliament when they bring it in, will she bring it in, in what form? And in that sense, life can't stop. And we can't interpret the law like that because there's no sanctions for the situation when no company list has been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14048	The true avalanche of correcting false allegations. He is the first to rewrote the respected representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14049	I'm correcting an incorrect quote. So it's not the ministers that are in conflict, that they're on the board of directors, but they're conflicting over the fact that the government hasn't fulfilled its legal obligation. And the government didn't deliver a list of companies to this House because she delivered it and withdrew it. And it is offensive to say here that the government cannot impose something on this Parliament because the government did not impose this House on the adoption of the law from afternoon till midnight, the adoption of laws in that day, the adoption and amendment of the law three times in two months. So the government can do what they want.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14050	Thank you. You've corrected an incorrect assumption you have no right to debate. Next in line is Honorable Representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14051	An incorrect allegation by Mr. Secretary of State that I or any fellow representative, said that state officials are members of the Supervisory Board in conflict of interest only because they are members of the Supervisory Board. Mr. Secretary of State I repeat, they are in conflict of interest because Vlad Parliament has not proposed to the Parliament a list of these t-rgovish societies. And please, when you address us as Assembly representatives, do not interpret the laws for us, we are to interpret you. Not you to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14052	I thank the esteemed representative, you've corrected the incorrect assumption. The next is the honourable representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14053	Thank you very much. It is an incorrect assumption that companies in essentially state-owned property were unsupervised because these companies had their own supervisory boards, that we must recognise ourselves because of the lack of a list of companies in front of this House to adopt it. All those who are thus on boards are in conflict of interest under the letter of this Law. And if something was to be imposed, it could have been brought in and left in that interregrum to remain old members of the supervisory board. But they are in conflict of interest and these aren't. So don't be naive.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14054	Thank you. It is up to the Honorable Vice President of the Arlovic House.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14055	Mr Vice-President, it is not true that the Government has not delivered or supplied a list of companies. She delivered and withdrew a list of companies, so the council couldn't decide. And at the same time, I must say another fact that the Government cannot impose on the Parliament exactly what it will decide, but it may make it difficult for the Parliament to decide on certain issues if the Government is the sole proponent of a single decision, as in this case, when it comes to law enforcement, only the Government authorised to prepare a proposal for a decision on the list of companies to be decided by the Parliament. The moment she withdrew the motion for a decision, she made it impossible for the Parliament to make the right decision and act on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14056	Thank you. It is up to President Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14057	The identity of Mr. Vice President as well as his colleague, Arlovic, said by the secretary of state, that the government cannot impose on the Parliament when it will, because the truth is that the government has withdrawn its proposal, and I allow you to know it, because often government officials, or individual members of the government, appear differently because they have no knowledge at all, although a great impression of unity is being created.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14058	Thank you. You've corrected an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14059	There's still more. I'm sorry, there's still more. On several occasions, it has been said that the government is interpreting, and once again we warn you that the government is implementing regulations and laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14060	Thank you. The Honorable representative Kapraljevic is on his way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14061	I thank Mr. President, Vice President, I apologize. At first, I thought I would start by analysing what the government has proposed as additions and amendments to the law, but before that, I would like to thank Mr. Mršić for making the proposal...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14062	On behalf of the club, Mr. President. The law on which we should now decide has 17 articles, 24 amendments have been tabled, and the only article on which there are no amendments are transitional and final provisions when the law enters into force. In view of the fact that Article 158. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in cases of a large number of amendments or where the nature of the amendments is such that the proposed law is substantially amended by a decision of the Assembly or by a proposal from the Proposer, such legal proposals shall be sent to the third reading. In view of the number of amendments and their nature, I believe that the conditions for third reading on this bill are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14063	Thank you. No, because you should have given it to the Rules of Procedure in writing that proposal for a third reading of the law. So we're going to the vote. Can I have your plate, please? State Secretary of the Central Administration, Mr. Palaric. Amendment 1st Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14064	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14065	Here you go, fellow Capraljević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14066	I have to anyway, and I believe we'll hear from each other a lot today. In any event, the proposed amendment defines those officials who, where the act is concerned, are elected, confirmed or appointed. Nowhere in the People's Journal, wherever any law is published, there's no sign of any of the officials who are thus appointed. and only by eradicating this part of the article means, if that is specified by an act of choice, confirmation and appointment, that is the only time to define which officials they are. Then, the list of officials not explicitly established in the Law on the Rights, Obligations and Rights of Officials is defined here and I believe that this amendment should be adopted in any case and I request a vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14067	Thank you very much. Please, who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 2nd representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14068	It is not accepted because the rectors and prophesies are covered by the Law on State Officials, so we believe that this law must also apply to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14069	Comrade Josipovic, go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14070	Well, I personally believe that the provision by which rectors and prophesies are placed among officials is contrary to the Constitution and the fact that there are also private universities and I see no argument with which this Parliament or any other rectors of private universities, if not those other public officials. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14071	Please, who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 3 to MP Antun Kavljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14072	It is not accepted because we have better decided to give property cards and we are likely to accept part of the amendment that still extends that which follows behind, so we believe that this formulation is not adequate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14073	Dear Representative Kavrljevic, come in!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14074	I don't see at all how it's better solved. First, this is a report on assets because the whole law is going through the name "The Property Report" in order to define them as property cards. We're saying that this form should be called the Property Report. I don't see you covering it anywhere. And secondly, we're correcting the editorial error that occurred on the occasion of the publication of the law in the National Journal in 163 of 2003 and you're still not correcting that editorial error and we're calling for some articles that don't exist at all, so I don't see where you're correcting it. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14075	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 4 to MP Djurđe Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14076	This amendment is incorporated, in most parts, in the text of the law other than the part relating to the tax cards. We could accept it but in the government's formulation, so it says "The data referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 are public and can be published without the consent of the officials." and tax cards must be delivered to the Commission because the tax cards by nature things are not a public document.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14077	Dear MP Djurdja Adlesic accepts it, and the amended part accepts the amendment and becomes an integral part of the law. 5. Amendment of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14078	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14079	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 6th Representative Antun Kavljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14080	The government does not accept this because such a formulation can lead to the abuse that someone later compromises the official and says that he received a gift on behalf of him. No one is authorized to receive a gift on behalf of someone else and therefore we do not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14081	Thank you. Representative Kavrljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14082	By erasing this article and defining the new article, it came out of our obligation to actually get the opportunity to say that my wife received on my behalf a gift and that it was then not considered a gift. I believe that such a formulation where the receiving of gifts and those covered by the law are prohibited would in any case make it impossible and that the same thing is whether I received a gift or received someone else in my name a gift that was anyway receiving a gift. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14083	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 7. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14084	In principle, we accept this amendment by proposing that it be complemented, so we propose a government formulation with regard to addressing the problems of employees or state officials who are simultaneous lecturers in colleges. We therefore propose to delete the "paying" point and quotes and add: "unless they carry out the activity permitted by this law." In fact, there is one category of state officials who are working in colleges and are treated as a salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14085	Mr. Palaric, please speak louder. The Chair of the Committee shall give a sign of acceptance in that amended formulation. It is an amendment to the amended formulation and becomes an integral part of the law. 8th Amendment of MP Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14086	We do not accept this because the formulation that we have adopted of the Constitution Committee is a better solution to this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14087	Comrade Josipovic, go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14088	I take it back because it's really the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14089	Thank you very much. Amendment 8 has been withdrawn. Amendment of 9th Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14090	We also don't accept for the same reasons because the formulation we accepted is better.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14091	Representative Kavrljevic, come in!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14092	That's not true anyway because this amanadman, I don't know which amendment you're looking at. However, it is that many officials covered by other laws have the right to a certain remuneration. Thus, Parliamentarians and all other officials not covered by some other law do not have the right to compensation, and I believe that they should all be even. They can give an example, for example, members of the National Bank Council are regulated by a special law and have the right to compensation while others not covered by a special law do not have that right. I ask to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14093	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 10 of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14094	We accept, except in the section proposed in Article 10(1), the words "except for the duty of a political party" are deleted because we believe they are not public duties.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14095	The chairman of the board agrees with this amendment. The amendment becomes an integral part of the law in this amended section. 11th Amendment of MP Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14096	We don't accept it because it's understood.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14097	He's a colleague of Josipovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14098	Well, I'm not, if it's meant to be, then it's quite illogical not to be accepted, but I don't think it would be too bad to stress that all activities that are outside public service must be subject to orderly public service. If the government thinks it means that I don't think so, I can withdraw that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14099	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 12th Representative Antun Kavljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14100	We do not accept it because we claim that the formulation of Article 7 as proposed by the Government is precise and quality and therefore does not need to be complemented or modified.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14101	Comrade Kavljevic, come in!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14102	I understand that you claim that, however, this expansion of officials who could be members of the board of directors in commercial societies raises the question at all of the purpose of excluding some because it is happening that we will then expand that everyone can be everywhere and the question is whether it makes any sense to limit someone and not because every unit of local self-government declares anything of public interest to anyone and that there can be appointed to the Supervisory Board of Commerce by someone of the officials. I don't think there's any explanation, and I don't think erasing it makes any sense at all. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14103	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 13. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14104	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14105	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 14th Amendment of Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14106	It's a nomotechnical improvement of the text and we accept the amandamn.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14107	Thank you. Amendment accepted. 15th Amendment of Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14108	It's unacceptable. In the bill of law, the government has stated precisely enough how it sees the role of the Commission and its position. And such an extension of the adoption of this amendment would position the Commission differently as an independent body of state authority, which is unacceptable for the Government. The government remains with its position that according to its bill, the Commission will be able to carry out its work successfully.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14109	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14110	It is true that this amendment determines the status of the rights and obligations of the members of the Committee. It is true that the amendment covered everything that we had previously defined by the regulation, which is from taking an oath to immunity and everything else regarding especially the outside members. And the amendment specifically defines that transitional deadline when a new assembly of parliament is being roused not to make it impossible for four members who are parliamentary representatives of automation as soon as they stop working in the Parliament to make it impossible for the Commission to establish a new assembly. And I believe that this way that we have proposed it to the amendment Committee could continue to work until it does, until a new assembly of parliament is called and therefore I ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14111	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? The amendment didn't get the required majority. The 16th representative is also Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14112	We do not accept because this amendment also seeks to create the Commission as an independent state body, which is unacceptable for the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14113	Comrade Kapraljevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14114	I don't see it that way anyway. Although when we passed the Law, all of us, and opposition and authority, then when I passed the Law, I did not bring it, you brought it, some of you, when you passed the Law, among other things, and HDZ embarred as a trial that the Commission had its own office. We, by this amendment, want to keep the office, and this is the kind of formulated amendment that would retain the independence of the Commission from any of the authorities. And I think that this amendment is crucial and it's very important that it be adopted because it won't happen to us then that we can't hire people, that we can't form the Committee and that's why I'm asking for a vote. I'd ask for an individual, but they say I'm not allowed in the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14115	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the required majority. 17. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14116	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14117	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. 18th Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14118	No, we accept. We do not accept it because it significantly tightens the obligations of officials crossing the borders that the government plans to regulate this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14119	Here you go, fellow Capraljević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14120	I think the argument is totally wrong because in any case, there is no tightening of sanctions or any increase in any sanctions part of the commission's work. Among other things, we regulate the President of the Republic. Because those amendments proposed by the Government and the President of the Republic could give me sanctions and ask him to resign which I believe has no logic, there is no logic but there is no constitutional basis for the Committee to the President of the Republic chosen to know in which way we shall prescribe him that he must resign. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on the amendment anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14121	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 19th also representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14122	Sustained. ... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14123	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. The 20th amendment also includes MP Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14124	The 20th amendment cannot be accepted, but even after the amendment the deadlines have expired and the government has proposed in the transitional provisions of the deadlines for certain activities and the gift regulation has already been prepared, just waiting for the entry into force of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14125	Comrade Kapraljevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14126	Thank you for the accepted amendment, that, I was surprised anyway. However, what you're saying is that the deadlines are all past in any case, but you're extending all the deadlines even this gift regulation and all those other ones, especially the list of companies of special state interest, that's all you're extending by the end of the year, which means that we could practically start working there sometime at Christmas, between Christmas and New Year's, so anyway I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14127	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 21st Amendment to the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14128	It is not accepted because the government does not want to distinguish between officials whether they are in executive or legislative power.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14129	Thank you. Honorable representative of Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14130	So when the public is talking about the conduct of a public office or when it comes to the parcelion of state officials, the public is always focused on parliamentary representatives, and I think that all witnesses are often and unfair, how much of it the parliamentary representatives are just because they are publicly speaking here, what they are exposed to the media and by nature of things, they are holders of these responsibilities, just wanting to strengthen, and thus this Law could get a certain passing grade because I think we have to prove to ourselves what this Law has a weekly to show and it is that we want to be more responsible than everyone else. I think it is precisely because, regardless of the fact that state officials or parliamentary representatives who act as members of the Supervisory Board are not paid for their work but because of the very perception of the incompatibility of these functions, it is good that parliamentary representatives should once and for all not always have their place on the supervisory boards because this country has many smart, wise heads that can be there. And that would apply to this amendment once and for all. I think that in this way we would give a clear message to the public that we are just leaving and that we are establishing for ourselves another rigorous criterion that would help to raise even the dignity of parliamentary representatives and also the role and honor of public function behaviour. For this reason, I request a vote to further say that other countries of parliamentary democracy have such an institute that clearly says that parliamentary representatives or national representatives cannot be members of the Supervisory Board. That's what I'm asking your colleague to support this very important amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14131	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 22nd Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14132	It is not accepted for the reason that we will put the regulation out of force by government regulations when we resolve the issue of gifts, when it is no longer required as a rule. And the deadlines for the amendment have expired. And besides, the property card as much as it is in our knowledge is dedicated to the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14133	Dear Representative Kapraljevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14134	In this last part alone, I agree with Mr. Palarić and the first part to explain along the way, Mr. Letica said it was a private joke or something like that in the style of Presidents of Parliament and Antun Kapraljevic. Well, if it wasn't for that kind of joke, this amendment applies to that, and we just took over the cards from the MPs. We have not taken over the cards held in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and have not taken over the property cards held by the President of the Republic. That's why I'm asking for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14135	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 23. Also representative of Antun Kapraljevic?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14136	It's unacceptable. We think there must be an obligation to deliver to the commission a list of persons subject to appointment and they will certainly be delivered before the expiry of this deadline. Only the deadline is written in the article. We stay with this article of ours. 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14137	Here you go, fellow Capraljević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14138	I didn't think you'd stay in that article for a simple reason because the Government of 25.2. didn't, in fact, make a list and 25.2. when the law came into force, the government had to do so before that. The government didn't do it, she didn't do it. That is why all these officials have been in conflict of interest and thus the Government is responsible for keeping it as you have suggested because you are trying to absorb everything that has been done, it means abolising the violation of the law. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14139	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of 24th Honored Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14140	The government doesn't accept. The government in the law proposes a formulation that officials are obliged to hand over property cards within 30 days to hand over property cards. We wait for the form and that's why we didn't file the property card, but we will hand it over if we don't get it, unless a form is prescribed according to earlier forms or according to how the official decides, but taking care of the legal obligation which must be in the tax, property card. But we can't bond with the publication of the form.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14141	Representative Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14142	Great. Gentlemen, I suggest that within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act, you write down your assets on the paper list because otherwise, it is up to the commission to make a decision to suspend your salary. Not just you, but all those officials, all the chiefs, the mayors and all those who are legally proposed as state officials. In order for all of us to receive salaries after the entry into force of the law, the entry into force of these amendments and the addition of the law we must submit to the Commission a report on the property or property card as defined now, and the commission is obliged to all accounts from the mayors, mayors and by order to those covered and to the President of the Assembly, to inform the accounting authorities that they are allowed to pay you the salary. I don't want to accept responsibility because we don't have people in the commission, because we can't answer those accounts to pay, I don't want to take the responsibility of one of the officials in this country not to receive a salary. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14143	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, with 74 votes for, 27 against and 21 abstentions, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, the conduct of public duties in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14288	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Final bill on the procedure of handing over authorities, second reading, P.Z. No. 30 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply, Article 155. - 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant wish to further explain the proposal? Here's Mr. Palaric, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14289	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Government exercises executive power, as long as the Government has it, it must comply with and implement laws as we have heard it many times. But there is one moment in political life when the government is out of political responsibility. The government for its work, respect for the law, corresponds to the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, but at times when Parliament is disbanded until the formation of a new parliament it is in a position to have no one to answer politically. The Government therefore proposes that this, in particular, period, be governed by a special law so as to limit the government's power over certain things that it can retain, to worsen the position of the state itself if the system changes. In the procedure there were draft laws on the change of power, on the handover of the authorities that... the collection of duties which were variable and even proposed that certain categories of civil servants be replaced after the change of powers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We believe that the bigger problem is the possibility that the government, in a period beyond political control, is too long for the country to take over some of the commitments that another government will have to pay, so we are proposing a law that would require the government to complete a mandate to form a thorough report on the situation in the portfolios and, in particular, a report on commitments that will not be met until the new parliament is formed. Such a report must be welcomed by a new government. We propose that the government be banned after the parliament is disbanded, especially after the election has been called off from office. Unfortunately, it was also a situation that although it is not in many cases but that even after the election results have been announced some appointments have been made and then it creates discomfort for people who have been appointed and for those who have found such people. We believe that this is not correct, we believe that the Government would not have the right to appoint officials during that period and possibly if the body of the state government or the rest was emptied in its head so that it could appoint the acting officer. We propose that the Government limit the right to conclude a contract from taking on new commitments and even if it is prescribed in the law that a contract concluded against this law would be void so that and possibly the other side, the Prime Minister knows what the consequences may be if, at the moment the Government no longer has the legitimacy with it, the contracts are concluded. We also suggested that certain categories of state officials be checked, their mandate checked. That their mandate must be made available, but not even all state officials, because we think it is necessary to pursue the professionalisation of the state service and therefore exclude any possibility that, with the change of political authority, the automatic civil servants would be put at risk in their own status. We believe that the government's mandate should be made available to the government's secretary, Deputy Government Secretary, State Secretary, Ministry Secretary, Assistant Ministers, Head of the Government's Office and Directors of State Administration Organisations, Chief State Treasury and Director of Government agencies and Directors of the Office appointed by the Government. We also propose that the law regulate the obligations of state officials appointed as members of the Assembly or of the supervisory boards of commercial companies, those companies that the Parliament will establish to be of particular state interest, that they must put a mandate on the body that appointed them. If the congregation is then to the Government, if they are members of the Supervisory Board, then they are appointed to the congregation. However, the transition process, the transfer of power should be completed very quickly, and we think that within 60 days, the new government should be determined about the further fate of those officials who make the mandate available to it. In 60 days, it must either reconfirm their appointment or relieve them of their duties and appoint a new team so that the shorter the uncertainty in the authorities. But with this law we also want to fill in a void that was created by eradicating certain provisions of the Labour Act, which is what we want to allow government officials to return to the workplace or the body where they worked after the end of their duty. If a civil official has come from the ranks of civil servants, we leave the possibility of being relocated to the body from which he came from, and if the official has been working in a company before his entry into office, we prescribe the possibility of returning to work with that employer and, of course, as Mr. Vice President has said, we believe that the contract should be resolved, but at the time of his departure, the right to return to work and that it does not have to mean that the apriori has to be granted to his former employer because we continue to believe that the elected elected elected officials will do their job with honor. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, this law is proposed by the Government as a moral act because whenever the law is passed, the new government is the first to be dealt with and this government imposes itself on itself. We propose that this is an important law in filling gaps in political life and that it will make any future transfer of power easier and without major problems. We suggest you support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14290	I thank Secretary of State Palaric. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? On behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, Mr. Representative Bosnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14291	Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system at the 14th session held on 25 May discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on the process of handing over the government to the President of the Croatian Parliament. On, we discussed the Law on the basis of the jurisdiction referred to in Article 57. Rules of Procedure as a parent body. We have concluded that the adoption of this law is important for ensuring a smooth course of procedure for the handover of authorities. In the debate, we had some comments on Article 9. The final draft of the law on its consent with constitutional provisions on entrepreneurial freedom. It shall also be warned of the excess of the provision of Article 5(2). The final proposal for a law whose provision could result in uncertainty in the legal system. We have also made certain nomotechnical remarks regarding expressions of trust, uninterrupted work in Articles 2 and 4. A final proposal, a proposal from this law. The Committee also considers that Articles 6 and 7 should be nomtechnically regulated in such a way that the Government can resolve the officials listed in those articles, rather than making their mandate available. After that, most of the votes, 6 for and 1 abstentions we proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14292	Thank you. We can move on to a club debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14293	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Listening to Mr. Palaric's opening statement if I hadn't read the Law, I'd have the impression that the law is really good and good. But since I've read it, I can say on behalf of the HSP Club a brief assessment of this law. He is legally inconsistencies and unusual legal styles which doesn't surprise us because such laws of unusual legal style and legal non-consistencies from the government are often obtained. And now I'm surprised, there's no President of the Parliament here, why he's according to Article 127. The Rules of Procedure didn't react and return the Proposer back to this law? In the case of Adria and Klub HSP, Croatia steps out of the agreement with Adria, the President of the Parliament gives us legal lessons, is considered even above the Parliament and once says it is not the subject of the decision. The second time he says it's not the point of conclusion. Third time he says it's not a bill. Now we're going to send him all possible legal acts so he can choose which form he considers to be the most acceptable. So much for that part. Otherwise, the last time I said on behalf of the HSP Club, the law was freakish. This is a slightly worse variant and we now consider it legally inconsistencies and unusual legal styles. It's always the thing when someone takes someone else's idea, and this time the government takes the idea from HSP, and then it comes to the situation that they don't know what they want with that law. So we at the HSP Club have, we have submitted eight amendments to this final bill. If the observations which have, in essence, the amendments to both the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Rules of Procedure, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system are already made, the conditions for this Law to go into third reading and to make a real quality law shall be laid down. Now I'm just going to read you some words that really aren't appropriate in legal practice. First, for example, in Articles 2 and 4, new expressions are introduced, says “enjoying trust or an expression of uninterrupted work” and then we have further in Article 4 is said “from the day of the election.” There's no telling which choice. Do parliamentary, do you choose Miss, do you local? The same is true in Article 5, it says, since the election day of the government. So what choices do we have to determine exactly the legal variant because it's not given which izor? Therefore, and otherwise why because legally unconsistent, I guess the logic of things is to determine the real name of the law first. Our proposal is the Law on the transfer of power. Why, the law on the transfer of power, because it is all a comprehensive notion that includes everything in it, since the day of the parlamntar elections, must be precise and precise to determine what and to what extent and what kind of regulations and what things the Government that is so-called can take. Technical Government. So that's one of the first parts that's very important, there's the issue of holding, the other part is about the question of those contracting and all the other things, and it runs for us is part of the important part and it's important for regulations with legal power. Because in this context, the technical government must limit itself to the fact that regulations with legal power cannot change the applicable laws in such a way as to change the outcome in essence. That's what we had for the time of the former government, who, in that part of it, was really doing things like that and changing the laws. Therefore, it must be specified exactly after that, when the elections were held when a new assembly was established, then it must be determined how the course of the handover of the authorities is going. Because you're careful about the expression of the handover that's the very expression of the surrender is far short of the expression of the transfer of power. The expression of the handover is for the government a new act coming to the government leaving is a sad act. And that means handover. We also have the prerogatives of the contract that it means that in the sign of complicity and willfulness there is a handover. So, I don't know why the government insists on this term that it's the law on the handover procedure of the government, ask who you want a languageian, ask people on the road. So the term "primary surrender" is not all about everything, and that's why we have an amendment, but the very name of the law is given to be the law on the transfer of power. Now we know for ourselves that we had this law and we offered it during... The Parliament's appeal was not brought to us by the loss of days and days in the debate of the current government of the former government. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Because you would know exactly how and how to do the primoprida what should be contained and the report, so you wouldn't listen to the second statement every day. Let's say for the first time that the deficit of the state budget was 4.5%, and then there was 5.1, and then there was 5.7%, and it was 6.6, so it was even 6.9. Then Minister Schuker was in London before, saying 6.6 in the end it turned out to be 6.3. Therefore, there would be no guessing, but it would be known immediately. But in order to do this in the right way, one of the important things that we have adopted amendments and said is that it is part of having to congratulate the committee or commission, which is parliamentary, which will follow this very act of the transfer of power and which will effectively and professionally determine what it is and how it is. After that, the government is a new member of parliament's report, and we will no longer lose months of the year on how the situation was when the government took over from the former government. Instead, it should be done immediately and done as it should be done. Certain provisions are indeed a special provision of Article 5 that is so inaccurate and that we have in this current law that the law has been passed in this former assembly, the provision of Article 5 thus states that the Government has since the date of the election is not said to say which, no dares to conclude Croatian is to conclude contracts of significant value. It states unless there is a lack of conclusion of the agreement, it would cause minor material damage, i.e. if the conclusion of the contract is necessary in order to fulfil the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia and for tasks that are presumed to be final until the government's term of office after the parliamentary elections have been carried out. The Treaty states that, contrary to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article, the Treaty shall be null and void. Such a provision, if it remains, does not say anything, but will only give the new government the opportunity, although it is legally dangerous to advertise some corners of this for nothing. That would be a nonsness one legal. So it doesn't hold any part of your water. That's why we took the amendment in those parts. YES, in such a variant, the rule is that the Government cannot conclude contracts other than those that are the result of already accepted international commitments. And those contracts, and if the government doesn't make them so that the state will suffer adverse consequences. But the lesson in that part is then who can be the only person who can be the president of the state because he's the only legal person in that part who can give an opinion. So they wouldn't be running a variety of different options later on. And the situation will be quite different in the new elections because we will have President Letica who will know how and how to react. Also related to Article 7 last time I spoke on behalf of the club in Article 6 that this part d is the obligation of officials to make their mandate available within 15 days. What he said would happen now is Article 6 in the variant because there are no criminal provisions if not an hour of mandate available. And now there was one legal review, which is that it is considered automatically that the mandate is available. Okay. But let's go to Article 7 where we talk about companies, and again the old formulation that these members of the trading companies must make their mandate available within 15 days. What if he doesn't put it there's no answer, no criminal sanctions. So he's doing what I last said, either you're going into third reading or you're withdrawing this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14294	I thank the esteemed representative Peri Kovacevic. On behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14295	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, putting a mandate on the table is a moral act. Whoever does not set the mandate for deployment and the government estimates the day is correct and does not work well, and that it cannot be on its team Government will simply resolve it. This is already an existing solution and there is no need to repeat things that have been resolved by other laws. There's only that much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14296	Thank you. On behalf of the club IDS the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14297	I was talking about Articles 6 and 7 the last time it was the same rule that bonds were placed by officials. The article 6 is now designed to automatically consider the term of office to be up to date. But Article 7 did not do that. That's what I was talking about, Mr. Palaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14298	Thank you. Damir Cain is losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14299	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, and the only report of the Legislative Committee was either a silent suggestion to the Government or that this law goes into third reading or that it simply tries to follow the amendments, the HSS Club does not prevent the Government from proposing such a law, even if it considers it necessary to destroy this area, we finally once need to lay down a regulation on how to hand over the handover, and even I don't think that the name of the law is relevant to me. Whether it's called the law on handing over or handing over power, it's more important to the text of the law. In part, I agree with the secretary of state when he says that it is a moral obligation for every government official to put his mandate at its disposal, and that ZValda will evaluate those who have put the mandate at their disposal, so the wagons have made one moral act and those who have not put it in order to resolve it. However, I do not think that this is necessary, it is not simply necessary to write in law or to oblige government officials to put mandates at their disposal, and I agree with what is said on the Committee on Law, but simply in law should give the government the right to resolve certain officials, and I think this should be the subject of this law. But the extra head doesn't hurt, and we won't insist on it, but some things simply in law should change. In particular, Article 5(1) is not sufficiently defined. It would still be fine if there were no paragraph 2 which reads: The contract concluded contrary to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article is nothing. You know, in the state and after the elections, especially in the state administration, life goes on, over time until a new government is established, until the new government is appointed to the Parliament, the state administration simply has to work. Of course it is necessary to lay down the rules of the game and to prescribe which contracts the Government has the right to conclude, or individual ministries, the government is not something that hangs in the air that they do not have. It is difficult to determine here, and I agree with that, the property censorship to which the government is allowed to conclude contracts and after which it must not. You have contracts that are difficult for your financial weight, but the government has to make them. If he doesn't, there'll be damage to the state. I therefore suggest that if the amendment of the Government is to be reorganised Article 5(1), because it is undefined, and you know that when you prescribe in paragraph 2 the contract is void, that means it does not produce any legal effect, thereby not taking away the right of the other Contracting Party to sue for damages. The fact that the contract is zero and does not produce effects does not mean that the other Contracting Party does not have the right to compensation for damages. And then something about companies. You know, it's still evident at our premises that every policy has the right to put its people on boards and the management of companies. I'm not sure you know when you're talking about a 15-day period, and then from the 60-day deadline in which the government will resolve those people set up by the former government, there is a life in a commercial society. I'm not sure that's a good formula, but if that's the government's wish, we won't look back on that part, but Article 9, really, it's a blank legal norm that has no consequences. Watch out for the dismissed official at the end of his duty has the right to return to work. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It's simply a blank legal norm and an employer doesn't commit to anything, nothing at all. I think there's something else I need to take care of. It shall be prescribed in the same Article 9(3) that the contract between the official and the former employer will lay down the conditions and time limits for the exercise of the right referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. It's a little unclear whether it's actually his legal right, contract law, which if there's no such contract and what content replaces the text of the contract if the contract doesn't exist. I think that should have been done more precisely. And what is most important for this Article 9 seems to me that Article 9 does not fall within this law, this Law on the transfer of power, on the handover of authorities. The rights of state officials are governed by the law will go even tomorrow and on the agenda of amending this Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials and I think it is a subject that belongs before this law, but the motioner clearly decided on this variant. And in the end, Article 10 is unnecessary in this law. In this respect, it is literally as follows: If the discharge officer does not exercise the right set out in Articles 8 and 9 of this Law, he is referring to the return to work, i.e. for the period until the exercise of the right, he is entitled to compensation in accordance with the compensation in which the rights and obligations of the public officials are governed. He always exercises his rights under that law if he does not comply with the second regulation. I think that norm is too high. And in the end, I would really suggest that this law goes into third reading, I think we'll get a better regulation. There's no hurry for this law to be passed at this session of the Parliament. He can wait for autumn and even later, we can make a better legal text by then, and if the government decides I think it would be good to and the existing text first of all edit its amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14300	I would like to thank the esteemed representative, Vresk. On behalf of the SDP club, Vice-President of the House Mr. Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14301	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDP representative club would also advocate that this law goes into third reading for the reasons of principle and individual objections to the text of the law itself. The first still remains a matter of principle whether or not this matter should be regulated by law, because in developed democracies and in countries where democratic structure and democratic policy are consistently practiced, it is known that practically after the new elections, after the constitution of Parliament and government elections, all persons appointed or elected to a certain role by the Government, i.e. the Parliament, they need and must be resolved and can be replaced in that context. And that is why, if such principled practice is known, it is questionable whether it is necessary to pass such a law. However, in our practice political and in our public, it is already a bit imposed on the view that it is necessary to prescribe what are all the duties performed by persons in the executive and parliamentary power and in our trading societies and public institutions, which are expected to be practically as a moral act mandated to trust the newly elected Government and to decide whether or not to hold them in office. So if such an attitude is already imposed, and if it is some transition phase in the development of our democracy, then it should be consistent and consistently and consistently regulate all these relations. In this context, we are asking ourselves very serious questions, and we are already making comments on Article 2 of this Law. Article 2(2) states, among other things, that each member of the Government whose term of office has ceased to report in detail on the situation and problems in the area of the delirious body they have managed. That's not true at all. They not only manage certain bodies but are responsible under the Constitution in accordance with Article 114 for the field of work for which they are personally responsible, it is a different definition and they are in fact responsible for not only the management of the authorities of the administration but for the field of work they cover and in such a situation it is quite different to actually prescribe their responsibility on the one hand and the question arises whether it is possible to report in detail on the state of work covered by one ministry. It seems to be a bit of an ambitious formulation, because it certainly should be prescribed that they are obliged to report on the movements and conditions in the field of work that cover that actually those basic trends and directions of movement in the field of work might be seen by a new minister, or a new member of the Government, so that he could be properly responsible and, of course, take and implement an appropriate policy. In particular, Article 3 states that, in accordance with Article 2 above, it is necessary to report to the Government in particular the commitments undertaken, not the subordinated commitments until the date of the handover of the authorities. Now there's a very serious question here. Whether or not they are subdued or not. Because if it is unsettled commitments, then it is, in fact, a report on all the contracts that the Government has concluded, which have material or financial consequences or some substantive provisions for the Government and for future business in general, the position of the state. In such a situation it is too serious and too demanding, be careful it actually means to report on all international contracts made by the state in bilateral and multilateral terms from which they originate for a country of certain financial etc. Liabilities on loans, both in order and of course on all those which are specifically related to relations, business relations in which the State enters with certain entities and where contracts are concluded on behalf of the State, the Government of the Republic of Croatia or an individual resolution ministry, of course, on internal market and business relations in the State. I don't think that this is simply possible and that we should look for another formulation, I don't think that we should report to the new government, but it should also be reported about those commitments that have been taken and which have eventually failed but in one way... and not in a way that, as the special report on the takeover writes, it is actually impossible and should actually withdraw this distinction between the fulfilled and outstanding obligations and those generally undertaken. In particular, the issue of the formulations of Article 5(1), you know here it is said that the Government can actually conclude the Treaties of more significant value unless the conclusion of these contracts would cause more material damage or if the conclusion of the contract is necessary in order to fulfil the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia. The first material legal question is raised, and what with those contracts that are missing or not being concluded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia would not allow greater benefit to the Republic of Croatia, so it will not cause any damage unless they are concluded, but it will prevent certain benefits for the Republic of Croatia and its economic operators if they are not concluded. This paragraph 1 did not imagine such a situation, he only prescribed that he could conclude those contracts relating to the implementation of international contracts or possibly those contracts that would prevent damage, but the achievement of the benefits is not, therefore one... entirely wrong in relation to the development of a concept that a modern state policy must lead and implement and in such a situation is quite clear that the item 2 prescribed by which the contract is concluded in the opposite of paragraph 1 is void, that such a contract as it is prescribed does not stand at all because the first such contract is concluded even if it is the opposite paragraph 1 to the third paragraph will not be anything, thirdly it will have to be fulfilled especially if it is an international legal entity and, let's say, if it is an investment of financial capital, because under the Constitution it is no longer anything since it has to be particularly protected. So it is not possible to declare it invalid that conditions can be created... and give the law to prescribe possible that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will eventually review such contracts, see if they are harmful, etc., and then the roads of the courts do not somehow declare them void, or eventually come into question to cancel them in relation to the third and to see actually what is useful and what is not. Of course, in such a situation, it is clear that there is a need to take special care of the matter. It is a similar situation with Article 6 and with regard to Article 7 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. First, Article 6(2) does not distinguish the question of the act of resolution from the act of renaming, as it says here the Government will decide within 60 days on a resolution or renaming, in other words, independently of that decision. Either he makes a decision to re-name the appointed person or he or she will dismiss the appointed person and eventually appoint someone else. Therefore, if any of the names are on the duty on which it is and on which it is located there is no reason to be re-appointed to that duty, therefore, a completely different question should be asked here, the question must be raised that everyone must give the mandate of trust and the Government will assess whether he accepts the mandate, and appoints another resolution, appoints another or actually re-nomination that already existed and does not execute, re-nomination. By updating both modern and new government with its power. A similar situation in Article 7 has been introduced here, however, automation in our opinion because they are members of companies, supervisory boards or a general assembly of companies for which the Croatian Parliament has established that they are of particular national interest, it is said they are made available to those bodies to the body that appointed them to their mandate. The first question is raised here, what is the matter with those chosen, they should not seem to put a mandate at their disposal, I remind you that according to the Law on Commercial Companies in the trade societies of the congregations and selects members of the Supervisory Board does not appoint. A second question in institutions and individual institutions that have a special character regarding... a special law. The second question that arises from this is what is with bodies that are pandan or relevant to the Supervisory Board, such as administrative councils in institutions and enterprises of public importance. Whether they too must give or do not have to give a mandate on the trust of the bodies who appointed them or elected them. Third, what if they do not give the authorities who have chosen them, for example, the mandate on trust, are congregations, which will then be done independently of what companies and companies or institutions or institutions have found to be a society of particular national interest, therefore it should simply be specified because this is how the space is actually set to open so that the standard offered can stretch. Of course it's our belief that the following three articles are essentially superfluous. Article 8, Article 9, Article 10 is the articles which are otherwise regulated by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State officials, or the Law on Rights, of Parliament MPs, where the question of the position of a state official who has come to office from a particular company or company and who has the right to return to that company on condition, is written there by an agreement, and here it is proposed by a contract, and in the case of officials who have come from the state administration to return to the same jobs, to schedule them or to work for which they have the relevant technical equipment but, of course, within 30 days. Therefore, we personally think about the SDP Club of Representatives as well as we do not need to repeat these provisions on the issue of handover, the Law on the procedure of handover of officials for a simple reason, because Articles 8, and Article 9 and Article 10 are not related to the matter of the handover of authorities, but rather to the determination of rights and obligations of officials and termination and the rights that officials have after the end of the term of office, regardless of whether it is the end of the term of office, whether it is a resolution or... the latter, by reminding that it is here, or trying here in Articles 8, 9 and 10 of the general issue to be regulated and the law that we will soon have at this session on the agenda at the debate is very precise he says that he has the right to do so on the condition that one term possible on the 5th year after that he could not have. Now there is a permanent coalition, and in such a situation it is quite clear that it is in fact necessary to reconsider the need for Articles 8, 9 and 10 to remain in this law at all. This moreover, the fact that Article 9(3) states that the contract between officials who enter into the duties of the former employer will be closer to setting the conditions and deadlines for the exercise of the right referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article or the return to work can lead to a position of conflict of interest of future officials with their former employer and possibly future employer in relation to the conditions especially when conditions and deadlines are stated, as it can simply require a certain settlement which does not have to be directly but indirectly through the proposal of certain laws or the implementation of certain laws of their interpretations, etc. in relation to that employer, to guarantee him a more quality and favourable position than any other employer on the market. For all these reasons, the SDP Representatives Club proposes to propose and accept the solution that this Law goes into third reading and until the third reading to try to specify and supplement all of these provisions, which in principle, given the idea they offer are acceptable but should be re-developed, completed and in this segment practically opens up the possibility of solving one issue in a long-term and quality way, even though it is questionable whether we need to repeat this Law again from a principled aspect, but if we have defined that in this interphase it is necessary to specify it in such a way as to ensure that the norm is not available at all and that it cannot be interpreted in more ways the same norm in relation to the same or similar cases, but must be consistently implemented in all cases equally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14302	I thank the Vice President of the House Mr. Arlovic. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, distinguished representative Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14303	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This is a law that fills a legal gap in our legal system because it regulates the rules to hand over or transfer power. Is the law necessary in the first reading, I think we were almost consenting to need to pass it. Let's just remember how many discussions there were, how many words there were, how many emotions there were about whether any officials needed to be resolved, whether that resolution had a political background, whether the budget deficit was 4.5, 6.7%, and I think we had such a law that all or most of these discussions would be avoided and eliminated and we would have one far cleaner and clearer situation. That's why looking at it means some kind of political environment in which we act, I think the law needs to be passed anyway. As for the provisions themselves and these nomotechnical remarks, I would say that those in the good part are justified and in fact we have warned ourselves on the Committee on Legislative Procedures and I think that the Committee on Legislatives has already prepared a number of amendments, as well as other MPs, and I think that with these amendments we can actually improve this law that is before us. It is undoubtedly the most dangerous provision in my opinion in Article 5(2), where it is said that the contract concluded against the provision of paragraph 1 is zero. This leads to really one legal uncertainty, because the Republic of Croatia in legal traffic is actually a legal entity as well as any other ordinary company as a company. If it means a company makes a deal with the Republic of Croatia, takes preparatory actions to achieve, realisation of that contract, and now after the handover of the government comes someone and says, if this contract is nothing to you, because it is not in accordance with this Law on the handover of the Government, I think it is something that, in fact, even from the constitutional legal aspect, would not be justified, and ultimately, nothing is a category prescribed by the Law on Mandatory Relations. And I think as far as I've seen actually there are amendments to that item, I believe that the government will accept a good part of these amendments. But what is significant by passing this law would avoid these bile debates in the next handovers of the authorities in the next elections and the constitution of the new government, we would avoid discussions on rematch, on cleaning, on politically similar and unsuitable. And that's why the law needs to be passed. Whether or not you should go into third reading, I think if the government is one part of the amendment that is here very correctly proposed accepts, I think we can bring it into this reading. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support this law. And I hope the government will also support one part of the amendments that are submitted here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14304	Thank you, dear colleague. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of libre, esteemed colleague Jozo Radoš. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14305	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In the name of the Club LIBRE, I must first say our fundamental position that this law should be passed, but this law itself will not actually solve much. Some dilemmas may eliminate, but in fact, the issue of the handover of the authorities and all these very unpleasant and messy relationships that arise in society when the government is handing over the law is not only a matter of political will, it is a matter of desire, of political culture to resolve some issues in an appropriate civilized way. And of course that question cannot be solved by any law, and that is a question that will probably be resolved for a long time, of course, that would be our interest as a country and as a people to make it as short as possible. That we have civilized surrenders of power, in which it is clear what was inherited from the former government, not that it has been constantly for months, and perhaps even for years reportedly reveal some new things that were not known at the beginning of the government's adoption. It's something that's completely harmful, which puts a mess into political life and which, of course, is even more dangerous, can be an alibi for doing nothing. Not to implement the right policy and to answer for it, but to keep things going back and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. We have witnessed this in the Republic of Croatia for the past half of the year. And it would certainly be good if I stopped by. But I repeat, this law will not be able to do so, and in particular it will not be able to help any commission. Because it is still a matter of political will and it is difficult to find a commission that could be independent, which could indeed be arbitrarily with authority, and independently say the handover of the authorities was done with these and those shortcomings. It is unfortunately very difficult to expect in our Croatian terms. But it is good to define a circle of officials who should be expected to be removed during the shift. In order not to constantly be heard through the public or within the ministries of mourning about some sort of rematchism, one authority accuses the other of rematchism, after which it does all the same or a few more for several levels up there. Therefore, I think it is good that in the article of the law we have defined the duties of all those officials who need to be or can expect to be removed and that the shift is not seen as an expression of political rematch, but as the normal political will of those who come to power and therefore have the right to manage the state, or individual segments of the Government and its institutions. But there will, of course, also be difficulties. The question is, what about lower levels of government? Does this mean that they're lower levels of government, senior civil servants who aren't here if they weren't changing, of course it wouldn't be good. One part of these officials in us who do not have the culture and independence built to the end, the expertise of these officials has also come to those places thanks to what the people say is laxation, courtship and, of course, political similarity. One piece. I say that, of course, because of those who did not come in such a way and of course because they could ultimately create really independent, professional and according to the criteria of appointed civil servants who would then not depend on politics. Unfortunately, we are not fully in Croatia at lower levels. When the government is changed, there is a steady uncertainty already to the level, or even to the level of the chiefs of individual departments. Because it is expected that shifts could occur, because some of these people are because without direct contact with a party in power have actually come to these positions thanks to some political ties, and because of that there are these, in fact, very unfavourable instability for the state administration and that would be a good thing to prevent but of course it is not a question that can regulate any law or law either. Otherwise, when it comes to the fact that this law will not be able to resolve a number of these issues but despite its modest contribution, it should be welcomed I would point out that several provisions of this law which could not be avoided and which would serve as an alibi to be done again in the same way, that the former authorities are accused, which are the provisions of Articles 8 and 5, respectively, which speak of the fact that from the day of the election, there are no more appointments but it can be exceptional. What this means is exceptional and how it will interpret the new power, it is of course a question but it is nevertheless about the appointment of the perpetrators of the duties, so it is a milder form of whether it is so. But Article 5 is, in that sense, very, very wide for various interpretations, and unless there is a will that, of course, the ability to handover is done in a civilized way, then this provision that contracts may not be concluded but other than significant material damage that could be done to the state because of the non-conceived could be used for disputes, for attacks and similar to this political rhetoric or folklore that we have seen and listened to in the past months behind which I hope is somewhere near the end. In particular, the provision was made, and a colleague spoke of it as a dangerous provision that all contracts made in such a way are nothing. I think the Croatian term is useless but the question is whether such a dangerous provision should stand in law. If the contract is concluded and already produces appropriate legal and real effects, the question is whether such a strict provision should stand in this law, and therefore, on the trail of what he was saying, my colleague Bošnjakovic, in front of HDZ, asked or advised the applicant to consider such a strict formulation, because this formulation brings legal uncertainty to the functioning of the state, especially those segments that are operating with the state which are not responsible because the state is not doing its job well. And in the end, I would draw attention to a few illogicalities or at least one key illogicality in this law. In Article 8, when it comes to an official who has become an official from a state administration system, it is said that he has the right to return to work if there is a vacancy and for a person returning to institutions outside the state it is simply said that he has the right to return to the same or appropriate place. I think if someone needs to be provided in some way with a certain return, then it certainly needs a civil servant who's been in the state administration. Therefore, even for a civil servant, this formulation must not be left if there is an appropriate place. State officials who come from high posts often do not get into the best atmosphere, and if this formulation is left, there will be a constant dissuasion of these people and I do not think it is right to protect their right to work. Therefore, the formulation in Article 8 must be the same or approximately the same. In the sense of the same as the wording of Article 9, which means that a civil servant is entitled to return to his former post or to a job with a similar job description, otherwise it will not be good because civil servants will not be equal to other officials who have come to the state service as officials from other external structures. Here, I think that these remarks that I am making here on behalf of the Club of Libre should be accepted because they would certainly improve this law and I repeat our basic assessment. This law will help a little bit but this law no other law that is 100 times bigger and better than this would be unable to resolve the lack of political will, compensate for the lack of political will for the handover of the authorities to take place within a short period of time, to be civilised, not to leave behind the tails and not to bring disorder into the political life of the country. This cannot provide the law, it needs to ensure of course political will and political culture but in some segment at least in a small segment this law will make some things clearer. And because of that, on behalf of the Club of Libre, we support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14306	Thank you, Comrade Radosh. On behalf of the HNS Club and the PGS, dear colleague Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, Comrade Lesar!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14307	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! There are some in Portugal, some in the corner, some in the siege and we in the assembly are discussing a very important law because when we first read this law the assembly was full, here were ministers, the media of great interest and apparently in the final debate in the adoption of this law something is of less interest. But they say football is the most important side thing in the world, so let's be tolerant. When the first reading of this bill was made, I asked a direct question to the Government's representative whether the issue of the handover of the government or the transfer of power at local and regional level would be determined by the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government or by this, I had not received any answer from any statement of performance to anyone so far I could not recognise what the Government and in what way and by what law it means to regulate the issue of the transfer of power in municipalities, cities and counties, and I now again directly ask the Secretary of State with an application that, after my presentation, immediately responds. In what law will the matter of power transfer be regulated in local and regional self-government, and when normal? Secondly, I said then and I repeat that there is no doubt that this law is necessary for Croatia, that it is a pity that we did not bring it three, four or ten years ago, and all those who failed to bring it have made a mistake, a mistake and against themselves, their voters and the responsibilities they had when they had power. But allow a few remarks or appeals because I am already tired of writing amendments and trying to help the government make the laws we will adopt as high as possible. In part, Article 3 tries to solve the problem that we have witnessed backwards for six months, as well as at the previous session and argued and argued about what state finances have been taken over or handed over, what is the situation in the budget, the Treasury, the deficit and everything else. By discussing this at the time, I said that obviously in this law we would still need to introduce clearer provisions and Article 3 which is offered does not solve any problem of possible polemics and is not the correct claim that the Government itself limits or imposes certain obligations because such definitions as thieves and Article 3 are like chewing gums, or each of us can interpret this provision as he wishes. So it might be good for the government to, with its amendment to Article 3 of the Done, refer to the former government's obligation to report to the new government on the commitments made but not settled until the day of the handover of the authorities, as follows, according to the IMF model and patterns. The International Monetary Fund or possibly the World Bank or the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I don't know. But no account, no record, no statement that was made under Croatian regulations and calculations was the subject of consent. The only thing we had to agree to and accept as a fact is what was calculated in Washington and not Zagreb. So it would be good, indeed, to write in this Law that the issue of commitments taken rather than made, so the obligations transferred under any obligation are accounted for by the IMF methodology and then we no longer have to doubt whether the former finance minister has handed over the state treasury, the new finance minister after the bill which can no longer be the subject of the dispute or of the new stand by the arrangement or by the conditions of withdrawal of potentially previously agreed or agreed credit lines. Whether the new government will assess whether they are needed by Croatia or not. In addition, Article 6 provides for either the taxation of officials or the functions covered by this Act in the sense of making the mandate available. I said by arguing in the first reading that we are coming to a paradox that the government or the government that proposes this law is trying to make it as small as possible, and the opposition will always ask for as much as possible, hoping that it will be a new power. And here it was held in state functions, so a little bit of stock companies or companies, but if we use experience from this assembly back six months then I'd ask a question and why don't we put the directors of the institutions in article 6, because the biggest disputes, public controversy and arguments we had at the facility, at the hospitals. Are the heads of state-owned hospitals, so state-run clinics going or not going? So maybe even the heads of the lab at the hospitals, I don't know?- I'm sorry. But here with this law... They're not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they were the subject of the dispute in six months and we all claimed, and also the government's representatives, that the aim of this law together is always to remove any possible dilemma, tension and debate and planting of whether or not any change is rematchism. We don't even touch these areas here and I remind you that general hospitals are owned by the county but that the state is also the owner of hospital clinics. So, I'm asking, does this mean that this government is giving up the subject of a shift after the election being chiefs of clinics? Or was that a rule worth only now and never again?s There is also a provision in Article 5 that the old government must not conclude contracts of significant value from the day of the election. Let one of the lawyers or economists interpret the term "significant value". What does that mean? What's "more significant value" in the courtroom of the judiciary, police, health care, state treasury, so anything? I offered the amendment to make it 10% of the budget items. I don't know if it's the smartest solution but it's smarter, more specific and cleaner than the concept of "significant value." Because I'm sorry, for the former government, a significant value can be 100 million and for the coming government 10 million. And again, after the election, we will spend six months asking whether the signed contracts are more significant or not because the opposite is probably not more significant. And I end up with an objection and an explanation of my amendment to Article 9. Article 9 returns to Croatia the right of officials to return to the employer who used to work. This law and legislation was kicked out of the Labour Act at the end or middle of last year. When we discussed the beginning of the year about the set of these laws, I warned that there was not a single regulation that would regulate that area, and then the representatives of the government told me to go crazy. Tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, we will discuss the three laws of the rights of state officials, the rights of parliamentarians and local and regional self-government where it returns and introduces the right to put the labour contract at rest for up to 5 years after the entry into office, returns, is being introduced from the Labour Act into those three areas. Because among many government officials, including parliamentary representatives, the lack of that provision has caused cancellations, cancellations. However, this provision in Article 9 is completely contrary to these three laws that we will discuss tomorrow or the day after tomorrow because those three laws, the rest of the contract limit to five years and here in Article 9 there is no limit but says it has the right to return. In accordance with this provision, Article 9 may also be interpreted after 20 years. And then three laws are up to five years old and after five years of law enforcement, there's no longer a working contract. And for this reason, I have made a second amendment to add in Article 9 the extension of that paragraph or the new item that this right or that provision is worth up to 5 years in order for this Law to be in agreement, identical to that of those who came from other cabinets, obviously neither the same nor the same as here. And the very fact that we have laws in front of us that are not in that part of it in accordance and in different ways regulate the same rights, the same people, the same group of officials prove that there is no agreement in government coordination or that the same laws do not argue. And for this reason, I ask the Secretary of State to consider, in particular, this second amendment of mine so that we will not be in a position to regulate in three different ways the rights of officials, so all of them after the end of the term of office. Also, the club's position on whether we will vote for this law or not depends on the government's position on our submitted amendments about it and I repeat, the question and please answer immediately. If the problem of state-level government transfer needs to be regulated by law, I mean and ask which law and when will the government offer to regulate the issues of transfer or handover of authorities at local and regional level? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14308	Thank you, dear colleague. Dear colleagues and colleagues have expired time to report a debate of 10 minutes each. The word has a representative, Mr. Palaric. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14309	Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs, the government is preparing a reform of local self-government, as has already been said, and it will be in, in a package of laws presented to this esteemed home with a proposal to adopt. It is our plan that all these laws be adopted in time before the next regular elections. If it is estimated that the process of handing over authorities is at the level, at the local level I think it is problematic that we can develop the legislative proposals we are working on now and I will take this proposal into account and we will try to solve it in an analogous way by the Law on Local Self-Government. The question is, uh, how will the fate of those laws be, but we'll take care of it. Although so far, the handover of authorities has gone largely without great tensions and a high level of culture has been established. I would just like to say one more thing about the remarks that the Government is not co-ordinated with itself, that we have to keep in mind that the Government is the Proposer of this Law, and these three laws that will be subsequently discussed is the Proposer of the Committee on Persuasion, so that there was no coordination between the Government and the Committee... The Croatian Parliament is an independent body of state authorities and I believe that in the legislative procedure the solution will be harmonised if, always, there is that rule of “legs posteriorios” or “legs specialis” which applies if there are differences between legal solutions. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14310	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14311	It is an incorrect assumption that the government does not know about these proposals or that only the Selection Committee, the appointment, has given a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14312	It was not a correction to the incorrect allegations, as the proposal representative Mr. Palaric spoke as the director of the state administration about the fact that these laws were not the government's proposal and that they did not go to government co-ordination, not whether the government was familiar or not. My colleague... He's not giving an opinion on coordination, he's giving it to the government. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] A fellow Radosh rectification of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14313	Mr. Secretary of State said that in Croatia it was established when the government was handed over a high level of political culture. I think it's a distinctly incorrect assumption. What was happening and happening in the first half of this year, unless the secretary of state actually has a lot, a lot of different criteria than mine, certainly testifys to a low level of political culture when handing over authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14314	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate of MPs. The first in line is the esteemed fellow Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak on this subject. Then she is a colleague of Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. You want to discuss it? Yeah. Here's your esteemed co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14315	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Prime Minister. Surely one stable and just political arrangement requires, apart from the law and some kind of basic common common belief of a common moral value of a civic virtue as well. When any law is passed, it is certain that there is one political platform for him, one attitude, so I would say a moral belief that this is the way to be done. I therefore think that this is precisely what is controversial in this final proposal for a law on the procedure of handing over authorities because here after the change of powers, the situations in which the Government acted were quite the opposite of what it is now, rather than at the same time proposing first reading the proposal for a law on the handover of authorities, and now here is the final proposal for a law on the procedure for handing over authorities. So, after the change of power, the government's deputy secretary, the secretary of state, the secretary of the ministry, the assistant ministers, the head of the office. So something that was never at all controversial or caused any doubt or suspicion. Recently, Minister Hebrang himself said: “Of course, hospital directors are political persons. These are political places." However, we do not see here that they too will be replaced in the case of a change of government. Where are the directors of state-owned enterprises? What about the level of customs administrators, the police who are all being replaced Wednesday? We have nothing if it is, if it is, if these are political places, and clearly that when the government does that, then why does it suggest that when a change of government takes a different course of action? That's the problem. That the government is doing one thing again and the other is thinking. He wants to take advantage of the situation. Well, that reminds me of the Court Act. What happened back in the '90s with the judiciary, we're not gonna recover for another decade. So when the cleanup happened, then let us introduce the immutability and great success, the European democratic standards of judicial independence and the sustainability of that function. Yeah, sure. But not after that happens. That's the slow part. This is what really makes this Law even superfluous because we are already acting on what this Law has covered. But what's problematic is what the law doesn't cover and the government acts like it. Why is it so clear, but in that apparently the government thinks it's wise,... And that's how the governments didn't think of it before. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we decide only on these situations, then the number of persons in Article 6 should certainly change the date of entry into force. So it must cover those situations as the last government acted. Otherwise, it remains questionable and the government remains untrustworthy. And not only does it remain unworthy, but it does not essentially solve the situation that it wants to solve as well. And here it was also said about the inconsistency of the law. One law says one thing, another law says another. It sometimes seems intentional, but I believe that often and unintentionally because there is no wholeness in mind, I don't know if it's because of incompetence or not remembering all the laws. It is said in Article 4 that, in cases where it is necessary to ensure the smooth work of the government or other state bodies, the Government may appoint an acting official, otherwise this is not possible or Article 4 prohibits the Government from making decisions on appointments in office from the date of the election. However, the government also makes appointments under the law, certain laws. I'm not gonna mention them here at all right now. It is the government's job, to know what laws are involved in the deadline of the call-and-advert day, so it is not a competition, but an ad which then the Government can sovereignly decide either certain bodies or individual ministers. Under the law and within a certain period, and what if that deadline is not respected, and it comes at that very election time. So it was obviously forgotten about certain laws that would then create problems in practice. Especially if there is a noun or more if no appointment is made because the appointment has not been made within the time limit. It has already been warned here that Article 5(2) of the pre-determined provision of paragraph 1 makes such a contract void, the question of all those therefore operating with a country that is in good faith who do not need to know, because the government is for their deliberate or reckless or reckless behaviour. In the end, who will bear the costs of such a zero contract if there is damage to a particular party or, as a general rule, this other Contracting Party. Article 8 is in direct consistency with Article 9 because the resolved official who was previously appointed as a civil servant is therefore entitled only to a schedule if his place is not filled This causes one great uncertainty and the authorities of the state administration. It leads to the sights of civil servants and underdogs to compete at all for the leading posts, because they never know or their positions after they become officials, and they must know that after the change of government their place is questionable, or will, as a rule, be resolved, where they will return. So that's one big risk, which then leads to negative selection, and the administration of the ER at least that's how the government keeps saying that there's one professional administration in it. So I think any state official will claim this place. Because precisely because of three or four years of his andat, he loses a single job and men and years of his life and it's a safe quality man as soon as possible if he's come from the system and if he's been designated, that's why the current government has appointed him. I'm sure that's what she took care of then. And as was warned, it is in direct contrast to Article 9 so the state takes the right to behave differently than it asks of another employer. Which is also not acceptable in this respect. So, for sure to encourage is exactly the editing of this matter, but we saw that this final bill and in the process of handing over the authorities practically burned the book to a few letters for all that is happening now, what has happened in these few months. And we're witnessing that daily shifts happen, because that's what the government explains that jet about logically. YES, it's political places, but that's when she's the only one in power. Of course, as if this set stopped being in power to act on those duties, then the second is worth warning that they are no longer political places but professional places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14316	Thank you, dear colleague. It's time for the esteemed colleague, Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. It's time for my dear colleague, Damir Sesvečan. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14317	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Vice-President, Vice-President and fellow MPs. Much has been said and proposed today on this proposal for a law on the process of handing over power. As well as in the first reading, when a united debate was held, on the government's proposal and on the proposal for a Law on the Transfer of Authorities proposed by the club of HSP representatives. The government has respected a large part of the proposal from the debate, and today the final draft of the law is in front of us. All the participants in the debate in the first reading of this law agreed that this law had to be passed, because we had no norms so far. This law will allow the change of government and the handover of authorities themselves to be carried out under pre-known rules, guaranteeing a certain degree of security for civil servants. And therefore continuity in the conduct of operations under the jurisdiction of individual authorities of the State administration. For these reasons, I will support the adoption of this Law. If we had that law before the last parliamentary elections, we would probably have avoided all unargumented productions for rematch, cleanup and any other qualifications we have heard in recent months. This bill sets out very precisely what realisations are being made in the executive government in such a way that officials who are obliged to place their mandates at the disposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are precisely listed. In order to avoid doubts as to what is happening if a single debtor does not wish to put his mandate at his disposal, he suggested that the Council be more precise in Article 6 and enables the Government to allow the same officials without any restrictions and resolution. The same applies to the provisions of Article 7 which defuses civil servants who have been members of the Assembly and the Supervisory Boards of Commercial Companies. Of special national interest. I also point out the lack of proposed solutions in Article 5. I have to define more precisely the meaning of the provision that the Government must not conclude contracts of significant value. The concept of more significant value is very broad and subject to different interpretations and personal perceptions, which is a more significant value. Furthermore, in paragraph 2 of the same article, the provision on the futility of the concluded contract is questionable, as the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, as well as the Committee on Legislative Affairs warns, in the context of possible damages and uncertainty in legal traffic. With regard to the provisions of Article 8 of the Act in question, which shall be protected in a certain manner by civil servants who have performed the duties of civil servants before their entry into service and the right to distribute without competition to a State body in which they were in the service prior to their appointment to office or to another State body. If there is a free official place for which it fulfils the prescribed and professional conditions. I hold correct that such a possibility should be prescribed in the same way for officials and deputies who have been elected or appointed on state duty and who have been employed in local and regional self-government units. I'm not sure if they can be swept away by Article 9 of this bill. Therefore, I propose that the Proposer consider these proposals and that, as it considers necessary, its own amendments or its proposal for this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14318	Thank you, dear colleague. It's time for the esteemed colleague of Jure Bitunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14319	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll also be very brief. I believe that this Law on the handover of the authorities that is ahead of us is somehow the result of certain democratic processes. Whoever, regardless of the tensions that exist in our Parlametna in the Croatian Parliament, are present in order to simply pass this law that we will come into one position to transfer authorities or better said handover authorities between the post-European elections will be according to certain European standards. One of my colleagues said it would be better if I had the law called the Law of Transfer of Power. However, when it comes to the transfer of power, I think that this right belongs to voters in some way, and that this term is being handed over by the authorities because the government is somehow coming from the people, from the citizens who choose us. And I think this term that the government is proposing is somewhat more appropriate. In the law itself, I would point out two components that are in some way, or weave themselves as important. One is the material which, on the one hand, means handover, when it comes to the financial operations of the former government, and on the other hand, a comprehensive report when it comes to the work of each ministry individually. The second aspect of which we often fight here is humane, and in some ways it will be resolved by new law. I would take advantage of the opportunity and say, and I would like to remind you that the current government did not fall into the government's 3 January bar in that segment, I speak bar, and in that segment relating to public communications funds where we were de facto then having a cut of personnel in those houses that were or were still in majority state ownership. And I think that, looking at this aspect alone, this is already a significant shift, and since certain articles have been discussed before, I think that the Government of this or any other government, regardless of the law in which it is a list of companies of particular national interest, has not yet been adopted, that where the state is the owner and where there is majority stake, then has a commitment, a legal obligation, has the right and, in that sense, the observations when it comes to the past point of the agenda do not stand when it comes to the fact that the government is in conflict, or the members of the Government that they are in conflict with the interest of their presence, that is to appoint the supervisory boards, or boards of commercial companies. All in all, I believe that this law, which will eventually be completed by some amendments, will be a solid law that will further regulate relations between political parties in the formation of power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14320	I thank the honourable representative. It's up to the Honorable Representative Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14321	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State and Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Well, there's obviously us unloving football a little bit in this assembly, but to somehow wake us up let me state my opinion on this law. Why do I have my opinion, because my opinion really differs from all the statements that, in this regard, respected fellow MPs and also HDZ, as well as from the opposition ranks here today. More or less, we've all asked ourselves whether this law should be passed. My opinions are going in the direction and the answer is clear, I absolutely think this is an unnecessary law, and for two reasons that I will finally mention. But first of all, I want to say that what most of my colleagues have previously said is that this law still regulates some important things, but it doesn't regulate everyone to remain open to many issues, is with me I would say the points of the profession unacceptable explanation and explanation. Either things are regulated completely clearly and to the end, or things are left to the regulation of some other regulatory factors such as customs are something else or other regulations, etc. It is therefore not wise, therefore, to do a regulation that is somewhat regulated by a particular question, a particular substance. Furthermore, I find it unnecessary to pass this law because we are guided by good customs, good practice that happened in our past, all I would say until the end of 2003 and the beginning of 2004. I'll remind you. In 1990, in those crucial breakage moments when not only the hair was changing but also the social order, when Communism collapsed and democracy was in place, this regulation is on our Croatian pride, this transfer of power has passed our pride within both the borders and the rules of custom and the limits of political civility. As far as I can remember, there was no problem. The furniture that was coming received both documents and information from its predecessors. Of course, throughout the time after the act of handover, the contacts continued, and I think that this process has been very high-quality, and I say a reminder of just that period of fact, as a politician, as a person of concern that we here in this House today in 2004 have to discuss it, so I would say also semi-interested or without great interest in these issues, simply apply these rules. The same thing happened in 1992, regardless of what the same political party was involved in the process, but it was other people, other people, and that process, I say, has passed without any more clarity, any problem, and it has not been claimed that there is no law that makes it impossible or difficult. In 1996, we had the same story, and in 2000, when a shift occurred, one change where two different political options participated in the process, and I believe that this handover was also polite within the limits of political civility. It happened in 2003 and in 2004. I will remind only a few documents, but before I say it, it is unnecessary to pass the law because even the most imaginative legislator cannot prescribe those anomalies and those events that took place at the end of 2003. I'll just mention some. The Vukovar Recovery Plan for the period 1.1.2004 - 31.12.2008. It's not a four-year plan to spend a billion and a half kuna, but it's Racan's five-year-old, 1.1.2004. - 31.12.2008 is five years. Racan, then, thinks it was December 19th, says the government will invest a billion and a half dollars in Vukovar over the next four years. It is impossible by law to prescribe that such a thing does not seem, the decision is legitimate, the plan is legitimate, but I ask you whether a political opportun is justified and justified to make such a plan and for whom it is made. So it's brought about by its promotion, because of the deception of the public for reasons not because of the restoration of Vukovar, but because of something else. So legitimate was the plan, but also whether it can be prescribed by this law that such things are not done. It's very hard, because that's how someone else's gonna happen. Another document to mention the development plan for small and medium-sized enterprises. Period May or July 2003 end 2007. I ask you, is it common for one ministry to make plans for such an important area of life at the end of its term of office for someone else? Maybe for himself, maybe for his own party, but that kind of thing doesn't seem to be done in polite democracies. So this plan is legitimate, no one can challenge it from that side and question it, but it is simply not valid for another political option that after that period comes what finally happened in Croatia. So, the plan is, the document is legitimate but political neoportun, unnecessary etc. and challenges some recommendations today because the former minister, today a respected colleague, Pecek, called for the document in several of his presentations, although the new government is working on a completely different plan for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises for its term of office. I will mention and often mention today the Law on Conflict of Interest, all ministers are said to be in conflict of interest because, at the end of the term of office, the last government passed a regulation that says an official can't be anything but an official, and we slave to such a law instead of saying what has been invalid since the beginning, can never become valid. According to this Law, the farmer, by which both of them elected this Croatian National Assembly or the Croatian Parliament, could now not process his country and enjoy the fruits of work on his country because the Law says that no state official nor agent can make any other income than receiving MPs and we have passed such a law and we are all here today defending such a law. It is a law that should be put out of force and passed a correct law finally if you want what today's respected colleague Kovacevic... spoke of the law of the neighbouring and friendly Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was passed under the international... Patronate and he said in a satisfactory way that addressed these issues and did not occur to anyone that bans a Bosnian peasant from working his country only because he is an MP to the Federation parliament or to the parliament of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I say to us it is a law that prohibits a peasant from working his country and I repeat it to enjoy the fruits of his work only because he is a representative because he is said and interpreted in conflict of interest. Please be nice, if you need any comment. Furthermore, I will mention another document, a decision on the ecological and fishing zone, taken at the end of the mandate, a decision of legitimate, cannot be challenged by anyone on that side, at the same time it represents one key, a political issue which is taken by overvote with a row, etc., and to God it is solved by the questions of fishermen, although we know that fishermen in the Adriatic for thousands of years, and now suddenly the need to regulate it by law two months before the term of office, therefore, no such thing can be prescribed, I see that red light is on. Therefore, I find it impossible for this law to prescribe all those situations... that may occur and that there is no danger that a party called the party will participate in future government handovers and these are sufficient reasons for me to believe that this law is unnecessary and future handovers and all future I hope will take place according to the rules of practice and polite political behaviour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14322	I thank the esteemed representative of Boras. The replica was presented by the esteemed representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14323	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen from the Government, colleagues and colleagues. In many ways, I would agree with the discussion of my colleague Boras in particular with that of his first part of the debate, and I would be too pleased that this is how he is trying to show the situation in Croatia, and then if we were to really take steps towards a civil society I would be against the adoption of this law, however, Croatia's reality is something quite different and I think that the adoption of this law is necessary whether in this and other form, it is a matter for discussion, it may be a solution and a third reading but to speak precisely on these examples that my colleague Boras quoted the adoption of a programme for such significant areas as Vukovar, and the development of small entrepreneurship and economy and, in particular, now speaking about the fishing-environment zone in the context how the debate was led in this House and when no higher degree of consensus between us was achieved, there was no more consensus for the development of the current Prime Minister Sanader's act in this House, and the last time I thought that we would always have been convinced by the Prime Minister in this House and the last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14324	I thank the honourable representative. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14325	Here's a respected colleague I really thank you for, but I think this is exactly the question that we might agree on, unfortunately, I've stayed single in the minority, but we have to finally strive for it and try to at least, because this is a direct question, this event, and the handovers of the authorities, the act that I'm holding that we could really agree on because it's not going to happen tomorrow, and we have enough time, I don't think it's a second reading coming out, because this is wrong from the beginning, but it's pretentious to imagine that this law could solve everything, I simply that pessimist, and I think we should still stay in the context of customs and practice so far, of course by rejecting everything that was bad in that practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14326	Thank you. Here's the esteemed MP, the esteemed MPs with this. On behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Palaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14327	Mr. Vice President, I know you're all already tired, but I'd just like to thank all those who discussed this law. The government was also in a dilemma whether or not to propose this Law, and it wasn't planned in our work programme but when it entered into the dubiosis of financial, when... some things that it didn't know about then the government decided not to do it again and that this issue had to be resolved. Otherwise, the practice of handing over authorities with regard to the interchangeability of officials is above the level of this proposed Law. I must inform you that many ministerial assistants have stayed in place, some have made progress, agency directors, governments are all the less in their places of state administration, so there is no talking about some sort of rematch, but we still think that there must be order and that this will include the highest number of government duties that are subject to shifts to stabilise, the political system and that it will make things transparent. Of course any law can be and better this is one newspaper, it fills a void and we suggest that we adopt it and that life will bring even better solutions and it is always possible to fix it when the time comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14328	I thank the Secretary of State. Dear MPs, we've finished our agenda for today, tomorrow it's 9:30, and we're starting with Amendment Laws and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act, First Reading, Bill No. 85. So 9:30 tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14329	The next item is the final draft law on the procedure for handing over authorities, second reading, Bill No 30. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by representatives' clubs and representatives. I'd like Secretary of State Antun Palaric to be made aware of the amendments. Amendment number 1 of the HSP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14330	We do not accept it because this Law, the title of the Law, as the Government has presented it or proposed, defines what this Law is about and I think it is in line with the content of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14331	With such an explanation, neither Mr. Palaric can be satisfied because the law is about handing over power. It's only one act in the transfer of power. Let's be smart. So the handover is final and linguistic, and however you want, there can be no handover and transfer of power the same. The transfer of power is a far broader concept, covering all parts of parliamentary elections, implementing what the technical government is doing and then handing it over. How come you don't get it? That's unclear to me at all. Here's Mr. Bosnjakovic's support, the committees supported it, but I can't figure it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14332	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 2nd Amendment of the HSP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14333	We do not accept it because Article 1 has defined the content of this Law in a better way than is proposed by this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14334	Representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14335	Second, it's incorrect what the secretary of state said. Please also read the opinions of the Committee on Legislatives, read the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure and look at this, and let us once make regulations in terms of the protection of legal profession and implementation, not in this way. I'm looking for a normal vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14336	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 3. The MPs' club also HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14337	We don't accept. We do not accept it because Article 2 as it is intended speaks to us about a completely different matter, not about what the club of HSP representatives predicts. He talks about the government's commitments to report to the government on problems and conditions in the portfolio. Therefore, this amendment is unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14338	Representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14339	And there's nothing to say. In all this, it's clear, and it's going to fix a bad text like this because otherwise, it would be smarter if that law were back in the third reading. With this way, it's going to be even worse text and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14340	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4. also Club of HSP Representatives Amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14341	We do not accept for the reason why we must allow this legislative delegation in cases where necessary. The government will use the powers to comply with the provisions of the law that it gives it, but we do not want this instrument that is needed when Parliament does not take up power because circumstances can appear so that it is really necessary to adopt a regulation with legal force. So we can't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14342	Proposer, MP Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14343	It's obvious Mr. Palaric didn't even read our amendment well. If he had read it, he would have seen the variant that the first paragraph says that, the government cannot pass a regulation with a legal force that substantially changes the applicable laws. That's an important difference from what you say. The second thing that matters is said in that variant is in your article 5, and we went normally in order to first regulate what is done at the time of the election, and you've skipped, once you're talking about this, the second one, and look at your article 5 says from election day, you don't say any choices, the government can't conclude a contract and then you don't say any contracts and then you talk about nothing. Well, that's legally unacceptable. Let's read the amendments. I'm looking for a vote. Inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14344	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fifth Amendment to the HSP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14345	We do not accept, because this amendment changes the numbering, and since we did not accept earlier amendments, there is no need for this amendment either.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14346	That's the only thing he's said so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14347	Amendment withdrawn. Amendment 6 of the Club of HNS Representatives of the PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14348	We don't accept it because it's imprecise. It was the government's intention that during this short period of time when it lacks legitimacy, it does not owe the country and does not create new obligations that some new government will have to settle and therefore we do not accept such a formulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14349	Representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14350	Thank you very much. In the text of the law of your proposal, it says that the Government must not sign contracts of significant value, and our amendment goes towards binding it to the height of the item in the state budget. We've proposed 10%. You said that our 10% is imprecise, and the more significant value that remains in the law is a precise term, so I assume you'll establish a commission to interpret more significant values when this law is applied. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14351	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 7 MPs Drazen Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14352	We do not accept it, because the government insists that the other party that enters into contracts with the Government that stands out as a mandate will be aware of the possible consequences if it participates in some sort of illegal activity, so conclude agreements with the Government when it is not authorized. We therefore propose sanctions against such contracts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14353	Representative Bošnjakovic withdraws the amendment. Amendment 7 withdrawn. Amendment 8 to the HSP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14354	We do not accept this because the government's formulation is precise enough and there is no need to change this article.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14355	Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14356	When it was said in the first reading we said in Article 6 of the present, the same variant was and concerns these state officials who are numbered and we said what if they do not make their amendment available to what has been said and this is now accepted in the final proposal, and now we are going again with the second variant for members of companies is given within 15 days, and our proposal is automatically available. So that's where you accepted, and here you didn't. And what you're going to do if he doesn't make the mandate available, what you're going to do. Let's get you some legal thinking. Simulate. In chess, the President of the Parliament knows well, plays well chess, at least three or four moves to predict. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14357	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 9 Clubs of HNS Representatives of the PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14358	We do not accept this amendment. We believe that the right to return to work is one of the rights that must belong to a state official and to a five-year limit we do not accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14359	Representative Dragutin Lesar, Proposer of the Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14360	Thank you very much. Article 9 of this law introduces the unprecedented privilege of officials in Croatia so far. There has never been a law so far that there was the right of state officials to return to work with the same employer without at the same time being limited by a number of years. The limit until the 9th month of last year was five years, so the right to return unless he spent more than five years on duty. By a provision proposed by you and by an official who spends more than 20 years on duties, he has the right to return to work with the same employer at the same workplace he left. No one in this House has ever brought such privileges to state officials. I demand a vote on an amendment that suggests that it be limited to five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14361	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 10 amendments to the Club of Representatives of the HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14362	We don't accept. We do not believe that a special commission for the implementation of this law should be established, that the current, future and all governments will respect the provisions of this law. Unless constitutional responsibility is prescribed for the violation of this law and we reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14363	Proposer Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14364	So I'm part of taking over this government, so after the parliamentary elections, it says that's exactly what I need. We remember how much there was, what a deficit it was. One time he was 4.5, so he was 6.7 and 6.3 and 5.5 so now he doesn't know how much the deficit and whether there were many such situations at all, and it's obviously normal, and it's out there all the way regulated for the parliamentary commission to oversee this transfer of power, give a little silence. It controls the transfer of power and that the people know then when the handover of the state in the state is done, and not that we have been dealing with for years what state of power one has taken over from other authorities, and in this way by not accepting these amendments and this whole part of it, you're telling yourself how bad the law you've given and that there's no intention at all to essentially edit everything that is necessary in this law, and you've misrepresented our idea of HSP and put it into the procedure. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14365	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11 club representatives of HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14366	It is not accepted, since it changes the numbering of articles, and this is not necessary because we have not accepted the other amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14367	Proposer representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14368	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-16-0.u14369	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 82 votes for, 17 against and 18 abstentions, the Law on the process of handing over the authorities in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
