ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11481	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of Mr Ivo Sanader, Vice-President, Vice-President and present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the sixth session of the Parliament by mail. Any objections to the record? Mr. Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11482	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I object, I express a abstention, but a very clear and determined protest against President-in-Office's undisputed attempt to silence the fact that our club is at the end of the 6th session,... In late afternoon this year, he asked the government of Croatia for an indication of the shocking and disturbing news for us that we received that day several hours earlier that the Hague court would not release Croatian Generals Ivan Cermak and Mladen Markac to wait for the trial to begin. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would also like to remind you, Mr. President of the Parliament and you, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, who, unfortunately, did not attend this High House on that occasion, I would also like to remind you that the representative of our Club, Mr. Pero Kovacevic, drew attention to the fact that we have verified information that two more Croatian officers are likely to be blamed for war crimes. After these parliamentary statements, Mr. Pero Kovacevic was with the foreign minister of Ms. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt and accused of providing unverified information, and the President of the Republic of Mr Mesic directly blamed him for the repeated release of false claims. Since we at the Club of the Croatian Party right all the information and claims we make in this House of Commons in each particular case, the fact that in the minutes of the 6th session we are trying to silence our club's testimony about the imprisoned Croatian generals and possible new indictments that have finally arrived, we are estimating scandalous and discriminatory compared to the Croatian party of rights... of course and extremely dangerous for the development of parliamentary democracy. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] With regard to this on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I demand a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11483	The minutes from the previous session were put by the professional service and the secretariat in a shortened manner, as provided for by all what was held at the session of the Assembly and discussed and spoken, and you cannot be granted a break because the amendment of the Rules of Procedure has been decided not to grant a break if the request for a recess is submitted before the set agenda and the transition to the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I included four new points in the final draft agenda: the Mandate-Immunity Commission report, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, Bill No 108, Proposal for a decision to refer members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to the Peace Mission in Haiti and 4. Confirmation of the Statute of the Personal Data Protection Agency. Dear Representative Djapic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11484	Mr. President... We'll look for a break later, when it starts... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] on the agenda, however, you have not given me any reason to comment on our observations regarding the minutes. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That he must comply with the phonogram and the remarks are very concrete and very clear. You just kept working like I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11485	Say the exact wording in which and what is not contained in the minutes, and what is, which was in the session of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11486	May I? Mr. President, we are more than clear in this brief, one minute of my presentation, we cited what happened at the end of last assembly session, and we consider that part of the HSP extremely important because it is something that can be kept quiet in Croatia, but it is happening in Croatia and there was no reason for this, this statement by our parliamentary representative on behalf of the Club, on behalf of the Club, to be said, that he did not mention in the record that you approved to come in the form he came in. It's totally unacceptable to us. We said it was dangerous for the development of parliamentary democracy. The business opportunity allows you not to give us this, this break, but we'll look for a break in another agenda point, and then we'll show ourselves again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11487	Thank you very much. If there was anything after the session, then it can't be in the record. And if it was during the session, and it's important, and it's not in the minutes from the session, I'll check it with a phonogram and we'll put it in the record. Please check the record to see if it's true, in the phonogram, if it's true that something was made out of what you're saying and we'll check it out and then enter it into the record. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda in points 2 to 6 and points 8 to 10 sets out the laws for which an emergency procedure is proposed. These are: Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a project of auto-road completion on Corridor X in the Republic of Croatia with the Final Bill Proposal, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, Bill No 95. Second, the proposal for a law on the confirmation of a contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary on the exercise of border traffic control in road, rail and water transport with the Final Bill, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, Bill No 100. Third, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a Framework Loan Contract for Project 1435, Sustainable Return of Exorcists and Refugees, Return of Property and Residential Care between the Republic of Croatia and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe with Final Bill Proposal, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading of P.Z. No. 101. Fourth. Proposal for a law confirming a free trade agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia with a final draft law emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 108. Fifth. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. With the final bill, emergency procedure first and second reading, P.Z. No. 104. Sixth. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the municipal economy with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of the P.Z. No. 99. Seven. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the laws on socially encouraged housing with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 106. And eight. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on state support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry with a final draft law emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 105. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? Dear Representative Radimir Cacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11488	Thank you very much. The HNS Club, the PGS, notes the adoption of an emergency procedure for amending and supplementing the law on encouraged housing. In view of the fact that the legislative changes proposed do not significantly affect the functioning of the system. Except in one part where it is disabled, or slowed down. So I ask you to in one regular procedure, especially because our law on amendments and amendments to the law on encouraging housing in the procedure, to discuss both proposals in a united debate, normally both in the first and second readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11489	Thank you. Honorable representative of Markov's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11490	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government. On behalf of the Klub of the Croatian Peasant Party, I propose that point 4 provided for the emergency procedure, given that it is a large amount of money, still goes into the ordinary procedure. It means that there is a debate in the process and discussion in the second reading. I think that for the sake of content and for the resources provided for this project, it is extremely important that a quality debate be conducted and that the public be fully aware of the content of this project, or this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11491	... Objection. Pero Kovacevic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11492	I have no objection to an emergency procedure but I have an objection to the fact that we brought it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11493	We are now discussing complaints about the application of an emergency procedure. If you have something to say about it, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11494	I picked up the same thing before I was a tile, but you didn't notice. Before that while you were talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11495	Do you have an objection to the application and proposal to bring one of these laws by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11496	I don't. I have an objection that you didn't give me your word when I raised the tile. I have an objection to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11497	I didn't give you my word when you picked up the tile.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11498	That's right. Because in your speech, you said it like I wasn't talking on the last day of the session. That you'll check in the phonogram.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11499	I'll check it out. I can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11500	You have nothing to check, when we all know I'm being accused of lying. The Minister accused me, and now you're going to check it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11501	Well, they'll check it out, and we'll see. I can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11502	Well, at least it would be cultural to apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11503	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11504	At least it would be cultural to apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11505	Who's to apologize to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11506	Well, the minister said we're spreading lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11507	Well, we'll check the phonogram, what was outside the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11508	So check the papers for what I have to check. Well, I know what I was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11509	Do you have an objection to an emergency procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11510	I don't have an E.R., but I have a point that didn't come to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11511	Thank you very much. Who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law on the confirmation of a guarantee contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the project of the completion of the highway on corridor 10 in the Republic of Croatia. Who's in favor of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? I would like to conclude that the final proposal for a confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty is included on the agenda of the Republic of Croatia and of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the project of the completion of the highway on Corridor 10 in the Republic of Croatia. Who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary in the exercise of border traffic control in road, rail and water transport? Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that, unanimously with 119 votes on the agenda, this final draft of the law was included in the emergency procedure. Who is the loan agreement for project 1435 sustainable return of exiles and refugees, return of property and housing between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe? Thank you. Against? I find that with 110 votes for and 9 against on the agenda, this proposal, the final draft of the law, was included in the emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Free Trade Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia? Thank you. Against? I find that, unanimously with 120 votes for the agenda, this bill has been included in the emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families? Thank you. Against? I find that, unanimously with 121 votes for the agenda, this bill has been included in the emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Communist Economy? Thank you. Against? I find that unanimously with 110 votes for this law has been incorporated by an emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on socially encouraged housing? Here we have an objection to the inclusion in the agenda of the respected representative Cacic on behalf of the club HNS and PGS. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? I find that with 108 votes for and 11 against and this final bill is included in the emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry. Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that unanimously with 118 votes in favour and this final bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. The written objections to the agenda that I proposed with the call for a session were not and that agenda was in accordance with Article 203(4). The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, the objection can now only be made to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. The report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission was included under point 15 of the proposal for a decision to refer members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to the Peace Mission in Haiti and under point 37 of the confirmation of the Statute of the Personal Data Protection Agency. Any of the MPs object to including any of these points in the agenda? There isn't. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure should now publish a set agenda, I suggest that if you agree that I do not read the full agenda but only to announce that the agenda has been established as proposed in the final draft agenda with this supplement. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11512	Mr President, I am interested in whether you, in accordance with Article 204(2) of this meeting, will supplement the agenda you have on the government's commitment of 2 April this year to which it was obliged to submit, within 60 days at the latest, an annual report on the preparedness of... the system for the implementation of human resources policy in the Armed Forces and the report on the implementation of the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of defence preparations. So the deadline was 60 days, so I was wondering if you'd take advantage of that possibility that the Rules of Procedure gave you?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11513	When the material comes, then I'll put it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11514	But it's 60 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11515	60 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11516	It's a fine writing. You signed, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11517	So it will be ready and it will be sent to the Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that today, at 3:00 P.M., NATO Secretary-General Mr. Scheffer will address us today at 3:00 P.M. to hear from the Secretary-General of NATO. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11519	Mr. President, I'm sorry about the... We've heard about this speech on many occasions. Incompetence, avoiding facing promises you can't make, trying to transfer guilt and responsibility to the previous government is something we've been listening to. We're listening again. Instead of explaining why you're giving up VAT cuts, you've made a whole series of accusations against the previous government. At the same time, I don't know why it's being manipulated if it's being done consciously. There should have been a topic here on the agenda: a report on the implementation of the budget. If you are already referring to the budget and its execution last year, why don't we discuss it first?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11520	A fellow Racan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11521	Yeah, just let me. I understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11522	You will speak on behalf of the Club
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11523	That, I understand, I understand that you have entered unlike the behaviour and attitudes so far in an all-increased clash with the IMF, but so quickly demand because of this cooperation that VAT is being downloaded makes no sense. You can wait at least a few days until we discuss the report on the implementation of the budget. We've got a quorum, we can put it on the agenda and still go in some order. Otherwise, this is manipulation. Unauthorized manipulation. I'm looking for a half-hour club break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11524	On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11525	Mr. President,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11526	Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11527	The HDZ Club agrees with Mr Racan's proposal to include the agenda item on the implementation of the State budget in the agenda, to begin with. So we accept the proposal you made. And secondly, I'm also looking for a break to determine if this is a letter sent to Mr. Keller on the 16th 12th fake or is that a fact? Because, uh, if it's not written that letter and it's not these debts that you're talking about, then someone here is lying. I use the intentional word to lie because it's a big thing. So I agree to determine the actual situation, to determine how much funds were spent on the 2004 budget, and that the debts were created in 2003. I agree that every single item is cleared, that if we are to stay here for 3 days to discuss, each individual figure, every single claim made by Deputy Prime Minister Linic and this Mr. Church and Mr. Rohatinski referred to 16.12. The International Monetary Fund. I agree that everything here is cleared up and that no abstract demagogy is disputed by the stubborn and hard facts contained in all these papers and contained in the deficit which unfortunately must be paid after the commitment was made in 2003. So let it enter the agenda of the 1st point, this one on the implementation of the State budget. I'm also looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11528	On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11529	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. There was also a recommendation from the Committee on Finance to discuss first the account of the Budget...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11530	My colleagues, please, my colleagues!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11531	for 2003 and only then to discuss VAT or return rates from 20% to 22%. The IDS Club does not ask for this occasion, however, but asks all of us to refrain from these qualifications who are told stupidity, who is lying, which is a falsification, which is a high degree of seriousness and credibility both of the former so-called governments, with one word higher than the country's credibility as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11532	On behalf of the HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11533	Thank you very much, Mr. President, we are joining these demands in any case we would do well to discuss the level of the budget first, but we would also like you to continue to ensure what is unusually important that we talk here about the effects of the reduction of VAT because we are in an unusual situation or increase. To talk about relations with the International Monetary Fund, not how it will affect economic growth, employment, pre-election promises. Interestingly, we also use the same arguments in reducing the increase in VAT, both in the increase and in the reduction. That's inadmissible. I'd like to hear the projections of the VAT increase in this case, this one and next year. And relations with the International Monetary Fund are something else-- so I'd like to ask the minister to proceed with that. How it's going to reflect an alibi policy we don't need here. We at HSS wouldn't want to discuss it at all, so we're going to raise our hands for this very proposal to amend the VAT law. But this isn't productive. Let's talk about more productive things and in a different way, I'm also asking you to join us for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11534	On behalf of the HSPa club, respected representative Tonči Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11535	Your Honor, Mr. President, and the HSPA Club is looking for a half-hour break. It is truly amazing that the debate on such a serious subject has turned into each other's insults. The charges against each other. We believe that this is an extremely important topic that needs to be debated completely. That's why we're looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11536	In the name of the HSL Club, a respected representative of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11537	Mr. President, as it has begun, I'm afraid a half-hour break will not be enough for us to ease our passion. And I think the topic is too serious for all Croatian businessmen and all Croatian citizens. I'd like us to move on half an hour ago, although we're looking for the same break, and if it's possible we're really discussing the subject of not discussing everything else mainly not the work of the former government. I have a government today. I think we need to discuss a VAT reduction. So we're joining the break, but I don't think those half-hours are going to help calm down, so we have to do it ourselves when we're here and when we're on break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11538	On behalf of the HNS Club. PGSa esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11539	Thank you very much, I would like to join the proposal to put the budget billing report on the agenda for last year. And I demand half an hour's rest. That team more the application of the VAT law was planned... and the finance minister reiterated today that in the autumn they are planning to come with a total tax comfort and that is why today only VAT is being debated, without calculating last year's budget. [[bad speaker recording not heard, not turned on]] And without the income tax package, we're really going to miss the debate because we don't know what we're going to get on the table in the fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11540	Thank you. On behalf of the Libre Club, Honorable Representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11541	Mr. President, as colleagues have said, I think it's logical that we discuss budget implementation first. Well then, about the reduction, or again, not the reduction in value added tax. At least at the Libre Club, we believe that the situation is actually beyond these frameworks and that there is a real will to determine the facts. There were assumptions about this, but since it is really unacceptable to argue for almost a few months about certain things that are elemental. I think it's logical to discuss budget implementation first, and then VAT cuts, and in that sense, we're looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11542	Thank you very much. Since they are all in agreement, we can put everyone on the agenda immediately because the proposal for an annual accounting of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia is not yet included. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11543	Put that on. Yeah, that's why we asked for a break, that other clubs could have given it away right away, but we need to see first if we gave it up for inclusion. That's why we asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11544	Okay, then we'll set up a break and then we'll discuss the inclusion and the state budget calculation goes as a point before the amendment of the VAT law. 30 minutes off. Ladies and gentlemen, after the break requested by the presidents and club representatives, we continue our work. I recall the provision of Rule 223a of the Rules of Procedure, that after a break, the president or vice president of the club or the other representative of the club of representatives may explain the position of the club in the exhibition for no longer than 5 minutes. Let's take it in a row. He's the first president of the SDP club. Dear Representative Ivica Racan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11546	Mr. President, on behalf of the SDP club, I would like to say a few words in our opinion about another bad start of the debate on important topics in the Croatian Parliament. Instead of a systematic, rational, reasonable explanation of why it is giving up the VAT reduction, we have heard today a series of insults and disqualifications at the expense of the predecessors, at the expense of the previous Government. A lot of things have been said and I ask that stenogram to be read again, it would be good to read the President of the Parliament in an attempt to be principled. A lot of things are said here and man is under attack to enter some of these elements that are mentioned in the opening explanation, among other things it was even said that Mr. Skegro was invited to some informed conversation and that we did not constantly address the SDP benches. Of course, SDP representatives won't and can't be intimidated. We could go along that line, whether the mention of Mr. Skegra was because later, by the tender, Mr. Skegra wanted to give "Sun-Hvar" the privatisation style of the '90s. I hope we will not be forced to discuss this in the Croatian Assembly on such an important topic. But we can, it's your choice. We were also accused first of two or three years from the HDZ bench for the slogan and blindness of the IMF, and when this topic comes up in debate, we will explain to you what you said at the expense of the last government because of your co-operation with the IMF. And now, instead of being charged with co-operation with the IMF, you're accusing us on behalf of the IMF that we cheated on the IMF. You'll still have to deal with yourself a little bit. We still think that collaboration with world institutions as important as the IMF must have some national constraints. We hope you have them, too. And if you do, we'll just see. We certainly, speaking on behalf of the SDP, support your failure to lower VAT. We regret that decision at all. As is known, here in the Assembly in a reasoned debate, it was warned not to do so. The entire Croatian professional public also argued that this was not done. The arguments that were in force back then are still valid today. However, it was enough to co-operate with the IMF to give up the VAT reduction. We'd be happier if you'd done it for domestic arguments, not foreign ones. Of course, among the accusations we've been listening to were the charges of development projects that resulted in a slightly larger deficit and slightly larger debts. We admit that the past government has been doing exactly what it requires and courage, in its orientation the focus had on development and development projects following the logic that we have listened to not once for what we have done for the past four years, I can say – that we are guilty of highways...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11547	Please finish, it's expired.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11548	We're guilty of rebuilding and the houses that you hand over the keys. We are guilty of tilt trains and the reconstruction of the railroad to make the citizens of this country go safer, we are guilty of a lot of it...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11549	Thank you very much, Mr. Racan. It's been five minutes. I'm applying the Rules of Procedure. On behalf of the HDZ Club, honourable representative of Luba Bebic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11550	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I also asked for a break to determine whether making up a letter from the Government and Governor of the National Bank of Croatia since 1612 was true or whether it was some kind of falsification. We've still established at the counsel club that it's authentic, so I don't know if anyone's going to argue. So we're for confrontation of facts, and the facts if they're uncomfortable don't have to be stupid and call themselves stupid. They are unpleasant because they are facts and because they are figures, and that is why I am on behalf of the HDZ Club, I propose that we confront and discuss facts and figures and cannot be justified by the general phrase of how it was built, but it was built with money that was not covered by the state budget but came into the state budget of 2004 which was clearly shown by the presentation of the figures. That the government wrote that letter to the International Monetary Fund and that because of that part of the opposition, it was against reducing VAT from 22% to 20%, we were starting to find normal state finances, and you seemed to know that we couldn't because they were hidden these figures that you claimed to be not true until yesterday. If you knew then you should have warned us and said, there's a dubiosis there, so you won't be able to cover those expenditures with 20% VAT because there are over-digits, or whether the budget overruns are from 2003, that would be fair. But we're now discovering these dubiosiss that were said to be not true in health until the other day, that it was fiction and so on. Every day we discover new dues, new debts to pay. There's no mention of Sunny Hvar in this debate. I'm about to have him open a special debate about "Sun Hvar." We received a report last year on the budget, on the implementation of the State budget for the first half of 2003, but this Parliament never discussed it. I'm asking the question, why wasn't that item on the agenda, to get us closer to all of these, you might not be surprised at how much they are later, these excesses. So one word I conclude. I ask that the facts be discussed, not the general phrases, because these great, great builders of Croatia who promoted themselves, while also focusing some of this money on their wife or other family members, that they are now giving us a lesson on why we are asking and why we are discussing these issues. Such stories will not pass because we will ask for a detailed discussion of each item. And in this House, it will never happen again that the execution of the state budget either for the mid-term or for the whole year it will not be before this Parliament. So there will be fewer surprises and we will not be angry, and I call upon my colleagues not to speak of any insults but to speak of numbers and facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11551	IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11552	We've given up, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11553	Thank you. The HSS Club, the Honorable Representative, Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11554	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. I believe we'll all agree here that in all the discussions we've seen is a deficit, I'll say, bigger than expected. We will also agree that the external debt of the Republic of Croatia is large, but we will agree that it continues to grow which we would like to hear in the discussion of the arguments. We will also agree that the expected rate of growth of the gross social product is too small and we should discuss this further. And what's most important and absurd at this point, the proposer, and in reducing the VAT rate and in increasing the rate, explains it in the same way, in the same way, the same arguments. I think it's not good and it's really absurd. This is why the HSS Club proposes that the discussion of the implementation of the budget be held before the discussion of the amendments to the VAT Act and we propose that it be this afternoon when we study the materials because the materials we have just received on the benches. We also suggest that the finance minister further explain the changes to the VAT law because he spoke about the International Monetary Fund and the implementation of the budget and did not speak at all about amendments to the Law. I believe even that it is possible for these amendments to the Law to achieve consensus, Malta not, to adopt these amendments without debate, but we would like to hear further reasoning, as was the case with the reduction of the rate. How this will affect the tax burden on citizens. When we talked about reducing the rate from 22 to 20, it was an argument. How we're going to raise the standard of citizens, that was the second argument. How we will strengthen the competitiveness of Croatian products. We also said it was the first step towards tax reform. Well, of course, we can reach a consensus on tax reform, but did we give up on the first step and everyone else behind that? And what we are also interested in in the HSS, how this will affect the reduction of budgetary spending both the states and the units of local self-government because it was an argument that we heard from the finance minister during the first explanation of the amendments to the Law. And we are particularly interested in how more effective taxes and taxes will be charged, as promised by the minister and how much that amount is. It's a promise for this year. In other words, it has been said that we will compensate VAT losses with a better tax charge. If we know that somewhere lost to VAT was 3 billion and something, so with 2.3 billion we were saying that we could effectively charge taxes, we're looking for exactly that kind of additional explanation. I would not now for some further bile debates so let us remind ourselves that only a year and a half ago in this assembly it is said that the International Monetary Fund has entered Croatia so much that we are losing some sovereignty. We all know who he is and why he talked about it that way. But I'd also like to hear if we're giving up those other solutions that were here in the debate, for example. from the fishing ecological zone, will we postpone this and within 5 years probably lose about a billion euros unless we reach the zone. I therefore ask, on behalf of the Club, that the minister explain to us what 3 and a half billion kuna means, in this case less, which means 2, 3 billion kuna more in a more efficient charge and what we are pushing for, that the state affects the public's pocket as little as possible, that we spread the economy more effectively and try to reach consensus on these issues. I believe that it is not difficult, and I am absolutely certain that such a non-productive debate damages the credibility of the government, the overall state, and probably our credit rating falls every day and every hour of this debate in Parliament. We're looking for a debate on the future, we're looking for a debate on development, we're looking for ways to stimulate exports, production, employment. The past is probably well known enough and around it we agreed more or less.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11555	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, Honored Representative Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11556	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian party's law club requested a break to take a stand on the proposal to supplement the agenda for the entry of the Report on the calculation of the State budget for the past year. We support as a Club to include this point in the agenda, but we also agree with the proposal that this report on the calculation of the state budget for the past year takes place in the afternoon for the reason that the materials arrived relatively late and it would be good if more clubs could be discussed and prepared. As with all previous assembly sessions, this one began with systematic bickering of the current government's relations with the former government, which is certainly not good because of the systematic burden of the public, such discussions have passed us by since the debate on serious problems, from the development of economic growth and similar problems we face daily. I would also like to warn the past, since we have already taken the word to be clear, and past power that the problem is a good part and that the Law on the handover of the authorities was not adopted in time, so, until, for the term of office of the last government, we would not discuss this in this way. Because according to our proposal, each minister would have to submit a report on his successor according to a precise methodology, with the blessing of the Parliamentary Commission. So you couldn't keep switching balls, so we'd be doing it if it wasn't for that, etc. And the new government was also wandering from taking a clear stance on whether or not the task was properly carried out. Well, we remember first, in the first evaluation of the government's handover that the handover was correct, and then, after that, on the first "Current Hour," there was a sharp attack by the new government on the old government that it was over-indebted. For two days after that, three joint statements by the former and current ministers that the task was in the interest of the Croatian people to come back to... the debate today. So, then, we are in favour of discussing budget accounting reports on this matter. But not to repeat every time at every assembly session the same story and to get this law passed as soon as possible... That it doesn't happen again. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course, the VAT might only be discussed if it is only after this debate has been held and it is finally clear that the new government has inherited about the old government how correct the arguments are. I would like to point out in my time that when we warned of a change in the budget through the highways that there was also no reaction from the government in the way we expected it to appear again. According to the atom, there's also been wandering with the current government about this. We need to avoid such discussions in our opinion, we need to finally do this about VAT when I've taken my word for it, I see it's going on and light up, we'll talk about it later on on behalf of the club. But it really concerns the impression that the IMF pressure has changed the current government's position on VAT, so we prefer to finally, we will support that the VAT remains at 22% as long as it is, but that this really complete VAT reduction law is withdrawn, not that we are pulling it away from the situation that it is used for pre-election purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11557	Thank you. Club of HSLS, DC-respected representative Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11558	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. A lot that we've managed to offer before and today. But I think with this debate that has been going on for some time we've been offering a whole new discipline that has been introduced a little bit by the former government by those famous creative interpretations of unemployment statistics. Namely, the discipline that exact mathematical indicators try to metaphysically interpret, so it seems to me that it's no longer mathematics, but more metaphysics, and then I would suggest that we call such discipline not mathematics, but mathematics. I think the mathematical indicators are very clear. And that all citizens who are watching us today and who are listening now don't think so much about it, ladies and gentlemen, whether it's a 4.6 deficit or a 6% deficit, because this 4.5% deficit is too high. It's too high a deficit. And that deficit was met by the former government, leaving it with recognition of the new government, which now, in co-operation with the IMF, revealed that the deficit is higher. And it doesn't matter whether we're going to outwit ourselves on mathematical indicators now, because it's clear that Croatia has no such deficit recognised by the former government, which the current government can't go forward now. And it's really time if it's also natural that we don't agree on everything about political views. If it's all right for political parties to have different political opinions. But it's completely unnatural, and it's finally time to get rid of the fact that we're having political debates about the exact mathematical indicators. If the international monetary fund itself and the international institutions find that the deficit is such, then I think it's a good starting basis to start the talks, to express our political opinion on how to reduce the deficit, rather than outwitting metaphysicalally about mathematical indicators. And in doing so, our average citizen trust whatever methodology you use. The only real methodology that unfortunately feels our citizens is the methodology of our own skin. And that methodology tells them things aren't going well.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11559	Thank you. The HSLS Club, the HNS Club, the PGS, the esteemed representative of Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11560	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In the Croatian public, the debate not to say and to argue about the state of state finances lasts 6 months, i.e. from the handover of the authorities. And the longer and more it turns out that this government took over when the deficit was 4.5.5.6, 6.7%, and that in 2000, the government was committed to a major surplus. It just can't stand. Especially since we were public witnesses to the finding and agreement that state of finances data was downloaded, clarified and that there was no need for further public polemics afterwards. I also thought that this year, at the end of last year, the same methodology was applied for the handover of the government that was made in 2000. This team of more HDZ colleagues had experience in handing over the government. And that's why we suggested that before the debate in the new IRS, we discuss the report to the VAT, that is, the calculation of the state budget for last year. And I want to believe that, in that document, the International Monetary Fund gave its opinion, so that we do not have to discuss it again in the fall after it has been read or read by the IMF. In the procedure of this session we have a proposal, the Government's proposal for a Law on the Handover of Authorities. It is now obvious that it would be good for the proposed text to be withdrawn from the procedure, and to be processed in part by the authorities in particular state of finances so that it would never happen again after the handover of the government for 6 months to discuss what kind of situation it has handed over and received and to establish in that law mandatory indicators and data that must be placed by the former government on the disposition and availability. I'm seriously warning this because this is the only law we can regulate. We'll give an opinion about the VAT when we discuss it. But there's only one thing I have to say, because my colleague Bebic, on behalf of the HDZ Club, insisted that we weren't in favor of reducing VAT because of some hidden data. I recall that the HNS and PGS Club proposed that instead of reducing VAT through income tax and increasing the non-taxable share of wages, we give citizens more than would bring VAT cuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11561	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Luka Bebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11562	Well, I didn't claim that someone was against it for this reason or for that reason, but those who knew how much dubiosis and excesses could have told us, so don't cut the country's 3.5 billion income, because we already spent it in advance. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11563	And in the name of Club Libre, respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11564	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The first thing to say is that this way of discussing such important issues is certainly not a step forward but a step back in the functioning of not only Parliament but also of the state. He who last night had the strength to watch the show "Forum" television until the end, I couldn't stand it until the end, he could be convinced in the most beautiful way, the conversation of the former Deputy Prime Minister and the current minister was below each level, nothing could be heard, nothing could be understood. And in such a way, politics and political work enter into a complete zone of contempt and not interest. This in itself is a problem, of course, but the bigger problem is serious issues, issues that are very important to the country. And I'm afraid it's a state of mind, that it's a matter of political will. I welcome, of course, the adoption of the Law on the Transfer of Authorities but it will not help us if there is no political will to resolve some issues in a cultural, civic, civilized way and that everyone will then face their own responsibility. It is much easier to attack those who were before trying really responsiblely to face both their own political agenda and their own promises, and then, of course, to take responsibility for the possible failure of that programme. It is unfortunately political technology, and the Law on the Transfer of Government is unfortunately not going to help us much. As such a bombistically welcomed Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, also a very important law, it quickly turned into a complete farce. So it's going to be here too because it's clearly political technology that in this way we don't really want to face what our job is, which is our responsibility, so we're going to find an alibi for what we didn't do, what we don't want to do, what we don't know to do before. This political technology, it is harmful to this country and should try to find ways to get out of this political technology as soon as possible. We're talking about letting the government handle 100 days so there's no political attacks at the time. How is this possible in a country where in those 100 days, the government is the only thing that does is attack the former government? Then how will today's opposition stand still and let the government do 100 days of peaceful work? And any government if the documents were not hidden, and no one here claims that they were hidden in 100 days or 90 days or in a month should be able to determine what happened to all segments, as well as state finances, and not that these things are repeated after almost half a year, and as it began, I fear that this will be the main political business of this convoking the Croatian Parliament, or his Government for the entire 4 years of office. Avoiding facing difficulties, with its own political agenda, with promises and constantly transferring responsibility for someone else, and that is not good for political life or for solving these problems, and these are really cruise problems, the issue of state finances, the issue of government budget deficits is a key issue of state policy, and if there is no consensus on this issue, there is no clarity, there is no transparency then, of course, nothing in the state can seriously happen. And it's really beneath every level to talk about it like this. I, of course, plead that we are first discussing the implementation of the state budget, but I warn that this political technology as we have had opportunities today and seen in the past half of the year is unfortunately a political method and that we will not come out of the difficulties that we are in today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11565	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected Vice-President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11566	So I'm correcting Mr. Radosh's quote and claim, and I quote, "The only thing this government does is attack the former government." Well, it seems like half a year nothing was done but attacked the former government, and I disagree, and it's simply not true because the government was doing something else. Besides, is carrying out the Cyprus and the fact that it's an attack? It's just about bringing out the Cyprus and the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11567	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First, on the proposal for an annual accounts of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2003 from the Government, this was delivered to the Croatian Parliament on Friday 28th after the annual meeting of the Croatian Parliament in the late afternoon, evening, evening hours. On Monday, a copy of this annual calculation of the State Budget was delivered to the National Budget Information Centre at the Representatives’ Clubs by one copy and on tape so that MPs could get acquainted with it. Today it was, it was planned inclusion in the agenda. At first we had no quorum to include this point in the agenda and it was logical and natural to first discuss the proposal for an annual calculation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2003 and then to amend and supplement the VAT law afterwards. Since it is a consensual proposal, I mean all clubs, parliamentary clubs in the Croatian Parliament to put this item on the agenda, it is logical that it will then be included. I would therefore first propose to supplement the agenda in accordance with Article 204(2). Rules of Procedure to complete the agenda with this point. Therefore, the proposal for an annual accounts of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2003. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of this item in the agenda? There isn't. I would then point out that according to the proposal for an annual accounts of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2003, it was included in the agenda. In accordance with Article 204(2), I propose the addition of the agenda with the draft interest law with the Final Proposal for Law, the procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 115. Does any of the MPs have any objection to the emergency procedure in the adoption of this interest law? There isn't. I'm putting it to the vote. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Interest Law? Thank you. Against? I find that, unanimously with 118 votes on the agenda, the draft interest law with the Final Bill was included in the emergency procedure. And we have another point. This is a proposal for a decision to determine the level of salaries of members of the Electronic Media Council. Does anyone have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of this point? There isn't. I'm putting it to the vote. If not then, the addition of the agenda has been established. Since some clubs have asked for a better introduction to the proposal for an annual calculation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2003, the debate is making even better preparations to move for today and to go with it as the first point in relation to the amendments to the VAT Act, I will make it clear and agree. And since we shouldn't continue at 3:00 p.m., then we will continue at 14.00 p.m. at 1st point: Proposal for an annual accounts of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2003. Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11568	I may have been a little ahead of this one, this is your proposal that we haven't even accepted yet, but since we've called the Committee on Economy in 14 hours, I would then change this decision, so I'm informing the members of the Committee on Economy that we will hold a meeting of the Committee at 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11569	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11570	Instead of 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11571	Yeah. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11572	I may have rushed a little bit, but for these points we've accepted, we haven't announced at what point of the agenda? Maybe you'll do it later, huh?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11573	It's still up to the committees and everything. So then break to 14 o'clock. Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues would have stopped this debate for a single item in the agenda that had just been divided. The proposal for a decision to supplement Croatia's decision to extend the Adriatic judication to the Adriatic Sea, which was sent to the Prime Minister with a proposal for the proposed decision to be taken by emergency procedure. In accordance with that, I, uh, have, uh, made an observation. Is there anyone against including this decision in the agenda by emergency procedure? Please, just say it slowly. Does anyone mind? Okay... I'll put it to the vote. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] First, does anyone want to be obvious? Does anyone want to be obvious that they're against fittings? Then we'll vote on it. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11575	On behalf of the HSP Club, we object to this decision being placed under emergency procedure. If you're including it then change the name. It means a decision to abolish any jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia on the Adriatic Sea. That would be the real name of the decision. And I don't even know what legal sovereignty means anymore? Did I teach it wrong on Law or do we have to bring all things to this Croatian Assembly, uh, under the pressure of someone third. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11576	Thank you very much. Now, there's an opposition and, uh, colleague Lalic. Please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11577	Mr. President and the Croatian Peasant Party opposes the urgent inclusion of this strange hybrid and strange beak as you called it the first time we brought it. So how did we get this moment on the bench this second? I think the MPs at least deserve to read it so we know what it's about? Some strange thing, though, we don't see which vampire is coming from all this?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11578	What vampire? What kind of weird beak are you? Honorable representative Jozo Radoš or William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11579	And we can do it together. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, we remember that in the previous HDZ meeting, it was strongly opposed to doing anything that would even be a fishing belt, an eco-fish. So he stood up for it, some called it the hardest version, and I think that since the government is made up of HDZ members it would be very good to leave them little time to think about it, I won't say and get it together because I find it hard to believe that such different thinking could have happened in just a few months. It'll be hard to believe the citizens. So that's because of this togetherness, because of the desire to access things properly, and perhaps because of the preservation of credibility, we are opposed to a hasty procedure, that is, putting this point on the agenda at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11580	Thank you. A colleague of Caine's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11581	Dear gentlemen, a year ago, I took a phonogram, and now I'm going to quote, in this assembly, I've claimed that whoever the new government is will re-translate its entry in some future, just as uncertain time. At the time, it was clear to me that something like this that goes against the logic of common sense will not live in the legal life of the Republic of Croatia. However, regardless of all the club IDS is absolutely against the emergency procedure of this decision. This decision was delivered to us as “ladrim” here at 19 and 10 o'clock. It's against good taste, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure I'd say common sense. Let it go nicely now in the regular procedure so we will see what it will do, regardless of what I am aware of the fact that we are pressed by deadlines and that this decision must be voted in the period of 15 days, because otherwise the damage to Croatia will be far or incomparably greater than it was by adopting a decision a year ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11582	Is there anyone else from the clubs? Dear fellow Yeah. [[Intruder:..., HNS Club]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11583	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Klub of HNS, I express my wonder at the way in which documents this important can come and try to get into this kind of process at a time like this. In fact, a few months ago in this same Assembly, the HDZ Club declared the fishing zone a national high treason zone, it seems to me, such a vocabulary was, that it would now and within five minutes put the zone into a hasty procedure and try practically without a smart discussion and without the possibility of the MPs agreeing to put it into an emergency procedure. So on behalf of the club, I object and beg to be put into normal procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11584	And respected representative Milanka Opačić on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11585	On behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to say that we are joining our colleagues who have spoken so far. We really think that this kind of document that's here now came somewhere even warm from a printing press, that it's something that's protecting national interests and which it's now giving up. It's amazing to us at the SDP Club, and it takes us a little time to see what happened in just a few months when, for example, Prime Minister Sanader here demanded about the ecological-fishing zone and the opening of a referendum where the citizens would decide whether or not we wanted an economic belt. So until a few months ago, we've been looking for a referendum here, and now this same Mr. Sanader as prime minister is sending us a decision that really is a betrayal of national interests, so we don't think this can go through with an emergency procedure and we're asking that we don't discuss it in haste.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11586	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I vote, first I pray quorum...... Please, please. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] I am voting on the proposal to put this decision on the agenda, amend the decision by emergency procedure. Who's in? Thank you very much. Against? I note that with 57 votes for and 27 against the agenda, the proposal for a decision to supplement the decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea is included in the urgent procedure, and we will probably discuss it tomorrow afternoon. Tempora mutant mors. We'll be right back, Minister Shucker. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're moving on to the next item of the agenda. Which means these proposals, please, the esteemed representative of Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11588	Mr. President, as far as we know from a lot of shrubbery information, but if we're going to follow some order right now, there should be a debate on the withdrawal of VAT, a little girl mall earlier. It's too serious a theme, Mr. President, to begin with that topic in 19.11 minutes. Since it has been reported even on two lists of registered counterparts. We suggest we postpone this point and give it to her.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11589	Please rest a little while so your colleague can be heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11590	Well, you're hearing me very well, Mr. President, what a special pleasure it is to me. It doesn't matter that the other hears because the other one can't influence the session's organisation and you can. So it's important to me that you hear it. So, if we start at 7:00 with such a serious point, it would be just a form or satisfying form.e We expect this debate to be a quality debate, and in the interest of developing parlamenrism we suggest that we break up with the session today and discuss VAT tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11591	Thank you. Dear representative Milanka Opačić on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11592	Well, on behalf of the SDP club, I have to say that we also don't agree that this time begins with such an important debate as giving up your pre-election promise and giving up VAT. This debate cannot be debated now because it is a very large number of MPs and it will last until sometime early in the morning. And at the first hearing, we didn't have any cameras on here, we didn't have a diameter here. It is clear to me that Mr. Prime Minister has told the Croatian public much easier that he will reduce VAT by 2%. But if by tomorrow morning we can't get Mr. Prime Minister to explain to the Croatian citizens why he gave up his pre-election promise we could at least have TV cameras and then we could say something about it. Therefore, on behalf of the SDP club, we do not agree to the debate now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11593	On behalf of the HDza Club, respected representative Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11594	We had no intention of discussing this item on the agenda at this time because we started it this morning at 9.30. At the request of your club president to include this item on the agenda that we're developing then we put it on and we agreed and now we continue. As for Mrs. Lalc's remarks that she can prejudge oblivion and so do I, Mrs. Lalic is... Mrs. Lalic, in this assembly, under the chairmanship of your President Tomcic, at two o'clock p.m., we passed 10 laws very ugly for this country. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] It was included in the agenda at all times of the day and night. It was included in the agenda of those points which were neither delivered to the representatives nor to the benches or to the table. And I also remind you of your forgetfulness to us, we continue the debate, and we take it seriously. You see how many representatives of the HDZ are here about taking this debate seriously. And where are your deputies? Besides, here's Mrs. Lalic kept saying Parliament doesn't work to get paid. Then we do, we'll work till midnight if we need to be serious and responsible by midnight... which testifies to the presence of HDZ and some others here. [[/speakers speak out loud doesn't understand.]] In large numbers. We continue the debate that started at 9.30 p.m. with the opening presentation of the Minister of Finance. Which, on the note of the president of the SDP club, was included the second t dad and now we continue what we started. ... [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11595	Thank you very much, dear colleague. A colleague of Caine's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11596	There are solutions clearly, to get out of this stalemate position, but to begin with, I don't understand what the haste reduction of VAT is certainly one key economic, tax, social measure. It's a theme note of national interest, and the deal was with Croatian Radio Television that it would transfer all such topics without the camera being turned off. So with the camera coming up. Since this is a topic of national interest, the very fact that 2 percentage points actually leave 3 billion kunas to the citizens is that if we starve something against the decision or the law that is at work, we deny the average of 6 to 7 kuna per month. I think it's inadmissible and so much camera television should be on. And I believe that if it is respected that the opposition would agree to continue the debate on the subject. Otherwise, please, Mr. President, allow us under quotes a condition for work, but during tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11597	Honorable representative on behalf of the Libre Club, William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11598	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues first, I think this would be quite unusual given the rate of work he's been doing so far. It would be unexpected for many of those who simply have no condition for us, there are those who have more shape that are those who have been maltreitrated or harassed in the last session but how everything should now be better and different then it is completely understandable that you should not use the principle of eye for eye, tooth for tooth. Because that's how it used to be, but it needs to be approached rationally. And the theme is that it's really looking for no position, the presence of the public, and that means actually a camera. If it were the opposite, I would have an impression or maybe it would be quite true if something wanted to be hidden. As I'm sure that despite the perhaps increased pace of work, there's nothing we would suggest that we try to achieve this public contact. If we don't, then we'll make sure it's tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11599	I'm a colleague of Lesar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11600	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the law that we should now re-change over the past few months has been related to two readings. Both readings were transmitted on Croatian television. I call for the decision of the Assembly Presidency from an extended session, at which we agreed unanimously without any problem that the topics that are of general importance to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are put on the agenda when HTV has the possibility of direct transmission. That is why I kindly ask that we do not continue this topic tonight even though we started it this morning when such conditions are created, and on the agenda of this session we have a number of agenda points that we can continue at tonight's session and continue with the agenda as we planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11601	And on behalf of the HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11602	Mr. President, if the VAT debate was the same as today's budget debate, I think it's smarter if it's not transmitted through HTV at all because it doesn't interest people anymore. Because we've been listening all day to bickering whether it was a deficit this big or that big, it's true that 12.8 billion were inherited, as well as in any way, and if we're going to talk to the cameras, then I suggest we talk about the whole tax system, how to do that, that we have a tax system that's going to be developmental and how to do that to collect what we need to collect. I think that's where we were the only rightholders in both the first and second debates, and today we were consistent in that regard. So that's our proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11603	Fellow Members and colleagues are correct that a recommendation has been sent to the General Bureau at the meeting, the Assembly cannot order the Programme Council and the directorship of the HRT to follow some vital topics directly. It's being recorded right now. Whether it's being broadcast or not depends on us. This law is an emergency procedure. Journalists and the public are following, so the press will report to the public both the public and the public, and I accept what the HDZ Representatives Club has proposed and I do not accept these other proposals to postpone the debate and we are starting to debate. On behalf of the club? Okay. Once again, a respected representative of Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11604	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's true that we can't actually condition television and others, but it's true that we can adapt. So the Presidency's decision on this is yours, I think it's binding and I think we'll lose nothing if we continue this debate in the morning. I suppose we'd like to consult on that and within the opposition, so please on behalf of the club break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11605	Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11606	On behalf of the SDP club, I'm looking for a half-hour break for the same consultation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11607	Dear Representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11608	We need a break and a break to consult, but Mr. President, you are right that by decision of the Presidency of the Assembly of the Croatian Radio Television, we do not have any opportunity to impose their course of transfer from the Parliament, but I also remind you that we will agree at the session of the Bureau of the Assembly extended with the presidents of the clubs to agree on the schedule of points for which we jointly decide that they are of interest to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Since it is such a point in my court and in the court of the HNS Club, and if you do not believe or have such an agreement, I suggest you call in this session of the Bureau of Meeting with the club presidents to assess whether this topic is for a term when HTV can conduct a direct transfer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11609	Okay. Dear colleague Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11610	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. The exit exists for us to say such a 30-minute break that we can refresh ourselves, look at the diary and give you Mr. President 30 minutes to ask the Directorate of Croatian Radio Television to include cameras, i.e. the discussion on the Croatian TV about VAT. After that, I want to believe that we will all approach this debate, which is a note of national interest, out of the public's best interest because it is 3 billion kunas of their money that we might have in future in our wallets, but probably as things stand, it will not happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11611	Ten minutes. ... Ten minutes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have spoken to, so to speak, the leadership of Croatian Radio and will now begin transmission directly to HRT Plus, and tomorrow will be broadcast footage between 14 and, or half 2 to 3 hours. So, 1 and a half hour's footage, and this is now going directly into transmission. They agreed with their kindness to do so. ... Tomorrow we'd go with the Penal Code, in the morning. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This afternoon with the proposal for this decision that we have, by amending the decision that we have just put forward, remained teachingly. The municipal economy law, that would probably be enough for tomorrow. I hope the presidents of the clubs after this explanation and assurance that we can continue. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, distinguished representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11613	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11614	Yes, you can, you can. Yeah, sure. I thought it was consummated already with this explanation because, well, here you go. Yeah, sure, yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11615	It wasn't consummated, and now I'm going to say why it wasn't consumed. Namely, what you just said about HRT Plus being directly involved and transmitted, Mr. Shakespeare, is seen in Latin America. Since we here today, or tonight at this hour are discussing whether the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not the citizens of Latin America, will be reduced the VAT rate by 2% or not, then I think a camera that transmits the programme to the Republic of Croatia for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia should be included, not for the citizens of Latin America. That's why, therefore, we can't accept this, yours, therefore, report that HRT Plus will broadcast this and that tomorrow selectively, in an hour and a half, the debate will, therefore, not entirely but only some small part of that debate, tomorrow at some hour and a half or two as much as you have agreed. So, on behalf of the SDP club, we think it is unacceptable to discuss this topic at this time, that it is unacceptable to discuss this topic without television cameras broadcasting the programme in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So we're looking for a TV feed, and you didn't let us do it. However, we think you might be able to give us something else. In this Chamber, in two times, Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Ivo Sanader explained to Croatian citizens, but primarily to us here in the Parliament, who are making decisions on these laws, explained why the government intends to lower the VAT rate by 2%. Now, on behalf of the SDP Club, I ask that Mr. Prime Minister also appear here for the third time and also to document and explain why the government is giving up the VAT reduction by 2%. Namely, just to remind you, Prime Minister Racan, while he was Prime Minister, on every request from Parliament, came here and gave reports and arguments because don't forget that according to both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, the Prime Minister was responsible for this Parliament and when Parliament and MPs demanded that the prime minister come here, he is obliged to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11616	On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11617	Thank you, Mr. President. We in the HSS are not so burdened with cameras and we could continue to work under these circumstances. Of course it is important how it will reach the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. However, I would support the SDP Club's proposal to address the prime minister and address us tomorrow. But for another reason. There are clearly certain pressures happening in Croatia. The finance minister did not convince me that we were discussing changing the VAT law because of the deficit but because of the request of the International Monetary Fund. Here we also need to discuss, by emergency procedure, the change of the organic belt, by emergency procedure, also obviously due to some pressure. Maybe there's a third pressure waiting for us tomorrow afternoon or night. I believe that this situation just deserves us here in Parliament to hear the real reasons for these changes both for these procedures and for this night cabarets. And that is why I suggest that we postpone the debate in the morning, that the prime minister address us and try to explain what is happening so that we can discuss it more qualityly and accept what is optimal for the Republic of Croatia. I'm afraid this way we don't have our own concept of accepting other people's dictatorships. Let me remind you, some countries that knew how to have this right relationship, including the International Monetary Fund, such as Slovenia, which is closest to us, has achieved much more quality results in its economic policy and development. I stress once again the request of the HSS Club, the address of the prime minister, the indication not only of the VAT but also of these other emergency procedures, the reasons and possibly some additions that could happen in a day, two, three. I don't think Parliament deserves this kind of uninformedness, we're confused, we don't know what's ahead of us, we're having a palitative decision on ad hoc procedure, and it's probably not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11618	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zlatko Tomcic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11619	Thank you very much, Mr. President, since yesterday, at the end of the session, it was very clear how it will work today. I hope I have a good memory. I'm told they'll discuss these two criminal laws first. And beyond that, the decision to supplement the decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea. I suppose the debate on these two laws will take a long time for this important issue to decide on the change of jurisdiction in the Adriatic Sea of Croatia to come at an inappropriate time for the interest of the Croatian public. I therefore suggest that the Croatian public may assess why such a big turn in the politics of the Republic of Croatia is taking place on this very important national issue, that this debate be held tomorrow morning mandatory with the presence of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Ivo Sanader. So please, you have the right to make a decision, so please make that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11620	Thank you. Dear representative Milanka Opačić on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11621	On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. President, I would like to say that we are joining this demand from the HSS Club last night until 2 a.m. to discuss a very important topic for the Croatian citizens is about VAT. We do not think that such practice should be repeated again with another important topic, which is an ecological fishing belt. We therefore ask that this topic be discussed after tomorrow morning and that it be mandatory for the subject to be present here and Prime Minister Sanader. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11622	Pero Kovacevic, a respected representative on behalf of the HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11623	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the HSPa Club, we also suggest that this point is meant by the Pred’s decision to supplement the decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia at an appropriate time. So tomorrow morning on television.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11624	Ladies and gentlemen, please, we still have Mr. Sergeant William Herman on behalf of the Libra Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11625	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, we join all those who suggest that the debate be held tomorrow with the presence of Mr. Prime Minister. For a number of reasons. The first is that the importance of the topic simply deserves it, and also because the prime minister as president of the HDZ Club in the previous session of this Assembly is clearly on this important topic. So it would be good if he faced this Parliament because of the bill. But maybe because of your own conscience. So we join these proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11626	And respected deputy vice president Vesna Pusic on behalf of the HNSA cube.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11627	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Club, I also join this initiative, which was launched by my colleagues in the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11628	We planned for this debate to begin today at 3:00. At 3:00. And given your suggestions and your desire to be personally Prime Minister, I need to see if that's possible. Now, we'll start with this debate, and then we'll see if we can open the debate on this subject that you're proposing tomorrow. Or this afternoon. I need to see with the Prime Minister if he can be at a possible debate tomorrow. Now let's go with this, and we'll see later on, we'll make a decision together. Let's go now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11629	On behalf of the Klub HSS, Mr. President, you may decide to hold a debate tomorrow, the afternoon debate is entirely inappropriately important to this topic. And I remember sitting on that chair that you're sitting on today, that at least a dozen times I insisted that Prime Minister Racan come to the SAbor and every time he came when you made that request. I think just that one good custom in this assembly needs to be established, I ask you to make such a decision, not that in the course of the day we struggle to discuss whether the debate will be held this afternoon or tomorrow. Just try to work more efficiently and make a decision to have that debate tomorrow morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11630	Please. A colleague of Cain's on behalf of the IDS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11631	Dear Mr. President, it would be most certainly desirable for the Croatian Prime Minister to attend the debate on giving up or I don't know what the jurisdiction of the Adriatic Sea is called. That would even keep it necessary. However, it is far more appropriate for the debate to be conducted in the afternoon, when there is an incomparably greater number of Croatian publicity in front of screens than in the morning. If we're talking about television.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11632	A fellow Czecho on behalf of the HSLS DC Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11633	Mr. President, of course television is the strongest medium and probably most of our citizens are watching television, but ladies and gentlemen we are not discussing here working either for HRT but for the Croatian public and for the sake of Croatian interests... state interests us as a community. So I also think that if we went to explore when more television is watched then that's exactly what Damir Cain is talking about. And I don't see any reason why we shouldn't start discussing it this afternoon. So you deal with it if you don't get to argue further tomorrow morning. So let's not constantly delay the important points that we want to discuss, when according to some at least ratings, more of us will see our citizens this afternoon.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11634	Dear Representative Luka Bebić on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11635	Mr. President, we have announced three or four laws that we thought we'd start this morning with a debate at this session. And then we were like you said yesterday that this decision on the fishing zone would take place, about two hours. Are we so sensitized about watching TV that it's not enough to start at 2 o'clock, and it's on TV, but we need to figure out the time when it's most visible. So I can't recall the cases when Mr. Tomcic was meeting any of our demands. In terms of the debate, and the time of the debate. I think it is quite appropriate to discuss this in front of the Croatian public and the Parliament that the debate begins around 14.00 hours when it is the obligation of Croatian television to convey it. Is it that important and important, are you so thin that even about the clock, maybe we'll start talking in minutes when something is going to be transmitted? I just want to support the president to be during the transfer, but I can't remember again that Mr. Tomcic has ever allowed us or respected any circumstances regarding any of our remarks, and we appreciate that it is during the broadcast on Croatian television and I think it is quite enough and that it is not necessary to ask for another hour and minutes when it will be transmitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11636	Dear representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11637	Thank you, Mr. President. I think there's been a bit of a mix-up here. First of all, when it comes to the transmission of Croatian television, it is, of course, just a shortcut for the public to follow this debate, because the only way that the Croatian public can monitor this debate is for it to be broadcast on television. As you know, we have a break of noon to three, and the television broadcast lasts until 5:00, so that's five or six and 40, but let's say up to five, which means that even clubs won't have the opportunity to bring their views to the Croatian public. This is what this is about, and therefore, the distinguished colleague Bebić with me together insisted on the transfer on Croatian television not because of television but because of the Croatian public, and this is certainly one topic that the Croatian public has shown to be interested in. Therefore, to shorten the transfer to two or two and a half hours, even if you want to where the clubs will not be able to declare themselves fully on the subject, it means to exclude the Croatian public from this debate. And as for the remarks made by colleagues Chehok and Cain that television is more watched in the afternoon, it is true, but in the afternoon different shows and movies are seen because there is no transfer of the Parliament after five hours. So it's all one thing to look at if there's no transfer of the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11638	Here you go, buddy Tomci.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11639	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. So here you shouldn't concentrate on outwitting when television is watching, when you're not looking. This is just about the facts. Apparently, counterpart Bebic forgot that on October 3rd when the debate was held on the decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia on the Adriatic Sea, Croatian television had three programmes and that the third programme was mostly reserved for transfer from this Chamber and that it was this debate when the decision was made continuously transferred until 22.30 p.m. on October 3rd 2003. I don't have amnesia, I remember very well what that day in Parliament looked like. I know very well what anyone was saying and what attitudes he represented. The big twist in understanding of this problem must be explained to the Croatian public in the same way as it was brought. I ask you, Mr. President, let's not waste any time, let's try in the most efficient way to do today, and start tomorrow, but certainly with the presence of the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader. Your every wish and request and request for the then Prime Minister to come to the Parliament was answered as soon as possible. I don't see any reason why that good custom would change. Thank you very much for understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11640	Please. Mr. Luka Bebić on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11641	I didn't claim Mr. Tomcic, I didn't claim that this agenda item was not transmitted on television. I just warned about your systematic ignoring all our proposals regarding the order of debate on the agenda, and I remember and I forgot that you were both important things and the state budget and we brought many things at two o'clock after midnight when you did not respect any remarks, let alone to be broadcast on television. So don't tell me that I was talking about this law that I didn't say that you said that, and Mr. Tomcic will start discussing it as the president announced, in front of TV cameras, and there won't be enough time for you to point it out in public, there will be enough time for all the club representatives to present their views to Croatian television, the rest will be variations on the same topic and repetitions, repetitions because the clubs will present their political views. Therefore, if someone wants to use the whole day around it, about one formulation and it is not to remove anything but to extend what you have determined for a year and it is not to abolish it and do not lead the Croatian public into error to dramatically announce that something is being abolished. That's just not true. There's one formulation, and that's all you intend to talk about for 24 hours. Well, you'll be talking to three now in front of the television.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11642	More colleagues, Cain, and we will conclude this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11643	The topic of prolonging and giving up the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia on the Adriatic Sea is certainly a topic of... national interest. It cannot simply happen that this debate is not transmitted in an integrated form. The final agreement is for the Croatian Parliament and Croatian Radio and Television Presidency that such topics will be transmitted without shortfall and should not be doubted at all that it could be done differently when this debate comes to an end. Finally, I still hold that a better time than 15 hours is at 9.30 p.m. especially if the debate is to be passed until its end. It's a minimum to be provided by the President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11644	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11645	Mr. President, in order for the SDP club to decide how we will continue to participate in the session's work today, I am asking you nicely for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11646	Here you go, buddy Baby.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11647	There's no reason to allow a half-hour break, there's no reason. None, you brought out everything you had. This is an obstruction of Parliament's work and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11648	Here you go, buddy Tomci.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11649	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In part, I join the SDP Club's request. Evaluating the importance of the topic and the obvious tenacity of you HDZ to move this debate away from the public's eyes, and wanting the club to consider this issue in detail, I request an hour's break on behalf of the HSS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11650	Okay. Mrs. Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11651	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HNS and PGS club, I'm also asking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11652	A fellow Czecho.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11653	Mr. President, don't be afraid, it started at half an hour, an hour. I'm not going to ask for an hour and a half, I just think that the issue of amending the Penal Code is an important topic, equally important, that it should also be transmitted in an integral form, that here, yesterday and today we are bothering the Croatian public, and we have cameras here now. With the methodology of how we work, the methodology is known as the Rules of Procedure. I don't see any reason why we don't give the President of Parliament the right to decide and say when we'll start with what topic. Especially if we start at 15 or maybe we can start a little sooner than yesterday and then all the clubs will be there to talk in front of the cameras. So, please, let's get started. We're already postponing this Penal Code. We're not discussing it. It's just as important a topic and let's say that if we need that break to be a 15-minute break, that clubs can say their opinions, that we should start working.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11654	I'm a colleague of Herman's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11655	Well, here's on behalf of Club Libre, Mr. President, we think it's a good idea to join an idea that can only be formally called a break in a formal sense. After all, the Rules of Procedure calls it that because preparation for today’s session was obviously not too successful. If there are so many interventions, if there are so many thoughts about how this work should be prepared, then, Mr. President, at the very least, it is necessary to imagine and prepare better bases for today's work to seem serious and truly organized. Instructions that come that there must not be pauses simply do not belong to this Parliament either, and even less to the spirit of those relations between clubs and MPs. So perhaps the proposal is that in the coordination of clubs, Mr. President, with your presence arrangements, what can help us to work effectively is thoroughly agreed. Stanka is not an obstruction. It's a preparation for work.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11656	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I'm setting a 10-minute break for the Rules of Procedure. ... Let's get back to work. [[beginning not saved]] I beg the president of the HSS Club, I have such order, the president of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11658	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We all here in the hall know what we're talking about. We are talking about the fact that Croatia's government has been changing its views too often lately and is proposing to this House quite the opposite decisions, rather than representing a very short time before that. We want to know what this is about. You, Mr. President, and your government must tell this people, is Europe blackmailing you, are ultimatums being set up? We simply need to know, in order not to have a positive atmosphere in this people around integration processes potentially spoiled. If ultimatums exist, and we want to hear it from you, whether they come from The Hague prosecution, the IMF, the European Union, one might be in doubt whether it is not an announcement of some new post-modern totalitarianism of economic and political. In order not to be mistaken, we here have to clear it up. You've changed your attitudes about The Hague's indictments as well. You humiliated by disallowing public debate here in the Parliament and defenders and the Homeland War and the Croatian public. By turning around VAT, you have failed your pre-election expectations and deceived the Croatian people and the Croatian public. About Protocol 7. The liberalisation of the trade in agricultural products has damaged Croatia's agriculture. Today's proposal to amend decisions to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia over the Adriatic Sea, certainly to get into new problems, to cause new damage to national interests, to violate the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. That you thus express a certain political naivety or political service, ignorance of communication with the European Union and with the International Community. Just to remove all these doubts, to know what it is, to know if there are blackmails towards the Republic of Croatia, we insist that the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia come to this hall and explain in detail what this is about. I personally remember very well the debate in this Chamber, on 3 October of last year, all the speculation and calculations that have come almost from all sides that in fact no decision on either the exclusive economic belt or the protected fishing and ecological zone is made in this House. I also remember what your representatives here said about this pay phone while I was sitting in this seat. Such a turn, such a salty mortal compared to what was expressed on October 3rd, can have no other conclusion, but shame upon you either.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11659	Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Tomcic, you are your series of insults, qualifications with claims that in the Croatian Parliament because of the fact that the debate on the subject you have proposed is prevented, that they are humiliated defenders, that they have humiliated the Homeland War and that they have all addressed that, that you addressed it to the HDZ, to the Government, that they are, that they are harmful to national interests, and that your most difficult qualification is that the Homeland War and defenders are humiliated. Hard to hurt the Rules of Procedure, hardly hurt all Croatian Democratic Union and Government representatives, and I give you a warning about this. You don't have to thank me. [[Applause]] Here you go, pal. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11660	Mr. President, the gentleman who has now spoken happily doesn't know his name, as usual, violates the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The gentleman who now spoke did not speak Croatian as prescribed in Article 12 of the Constitution. In order for me to be equal with him and to understand him, he should speak in a world language, or speak in Croatian, or finally bring this assembly as a translator. Article 12 of our Constitution states, in the Republic of Croatia, in the official use of Croatian language and Latin letter. I ask you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, to preserve the dignity and dignity of this House and that you do not violate the Constitution as the gentleman does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11661	SDP club. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, representative of Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11662	Mr. President, Mr. Loncar has injured the Rules of Procedure because he did not say which article and which item is being called upon. And he spoke outside the context of the Rules of Procedure, wanting first of all to insult Mr. Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11663	Thank you. SDP club. Okay. Representative Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11664	... as Mr. Markov did not refer to any member. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear]] Well, he broke the Rules of Procedure just like I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11665	I don't think you gentlemen will. I don't think you'll do it anymore, gentlemen. SDP club, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11666	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. We at the SDP Club continue to think that the topic of the ecological fishing zone is a topic which is of general national interest and therefore we continue to insist that the debate be held tomorrow morning and that Mr Sanader is present during this debate. Not only would the prime minister need something, not just for us here, but to the entire Croatian public, which is why this government has been giving way to constant pressures from the world for a long time. It caved in on the VAT reduction after the IMF mission arrived, and here it is now around the ecological fishing zone. Regardless of how we will vote in the SDP Club at the end of this decision on the ecological fishing zone, we do not agree that this topic is being pushed aside and discussed here without the Croatian public. We were a party and we were always, no matter what opposition we led when we were in power and now in opposition to national interests. For us, this topic is important for Mrs Babić-Petricevic and for relations with neighbours and Croatian fishermen. It's also important to show that until just seven months ago you attacked us that we're national traitors, that we don't protect our national interests. Since you disagreed with the ecological fishing zone, you were looking for an economic belt, and today you're giving up the ecological fishing zone. That is why you will have to explain to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia what is your policy on this side of the HDZ, but also Mr. Prime Minister. Whether your policy is to seek out a referendum seven months ago even on the economic belt or your policy is to give up today and from this minimal way that we tried to protect our national interests, hence the ecological fishing zone. We are looking for a debate in this Parliament that will be seen by the Croatian public, because the citizens of this country need to know what this government is talking about and the other one is doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11667	We're not discussing things right now, we're only discussing when we're going to put this debate on the table, not the content of this topic. So don't give your qualifications up front. IDS agent club. Would you like some? HNS, PGS. Dear Vice-President Vesna Pusic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11668	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It is also obvious that this is also the first time when a fishing-environmental zone or a Union economic belt has been discussed, that this is about vital Croatian interest, on the one hand fishing, on the other hand tourism. And it is made of two interests and it is obvious the same that the art of leading the country consists in the art of combining different interests that Croatia has objectively. In this case, one interest is the protection of Croatian fishermen, fisheries and environmental protection. In the second entry of Croatia into the European Union. If it were easy, everyone could lead the country but it turns out that not everyone can lead the country because it is necessary to combine and know how to combine these two vital Croatian interests because it is the art of leading the state. At the time we discussed it, we made a decision on the ecological and fishing zone, representatives of the HDZ and MP at the time Sanader, and today Prime Minister Sanader said it wasn't enough, that we needed a full economic belt. That is why, of course, it is necessary for the prime minister to be when it is brought and discussed again on such an important issue that the prime minister is present in the assembly when we decide as was the case in the previous session of the Parliament. It is necessary for the public to assess, see as it has and then be able to assess and see our different attitudes in order to even gain insight into how we conduct our concerns, how we conduct politics on vital Croatian interests, and to assess whether it supports and what type of approach to the country's leadership that supports and does not. It is certainly vital interest for the Croatian public. So I ask you, Mr. President, to respect this request that the debate be held tomorrow morning. To have the prime minister present in the assembly and that we can do what is also the function of the public of the work of a parliament, which is to propose different options that can be approached by this problem and possibly address it in a satisfactory manner. I think it's a minimum of what we owe.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11669	Thank you very much. HDZ club, respected representative Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11670	Mr. President, as you said here, there has not been a debate on the metrics since this agenda has not been opened on the enlargement of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea, so when the debate on the issue begins, then we will, of course, state our views, so far we say that last night the order of the agenda points has been announced at today's session, and by mentioning the fourth item of the agenda, by which you said earlier that you might expect a debate on this issue that is now being discussed around 14 hours. That in this way it will be transmitted on Croatian television and be Croatian television about important issues because all clubs will be able to present their views in front of the cameras of the Croatian public because the views refer to a single sentence, and then there is no need to discuss in the follow-up days a question of when it is very simple and it is not at all a matter of abolishing anything but of expanding the conversation and continuing the conversation with the European Union for another time, something more perhaps and perhaps not since 3 October of this year when the Council's conclusion is left time for possible agreements. As it says in paragraph 3 of the Croatian Parliament decision. The application of the legal regime of the protected ecological-fishing band of the Republic of Croatia will begin 12 months after its establishment, therefore, on 3 October. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The economic band will serve for the implementation of implementing mechanisms and for the possible conclusion of agreements and engagements with interested countries and the European Community. This is in the conclusions of 3 October 2003 and the deadline expires on 3 October this year. As Croatia began its discussion with the European Commission on the fishing zone, it is then estimated that some time is needed because we are not likely to reach the agreement by 3 October and is therefore proposed to extend that time to the agreement reached with the European Union on the fishing zone. This is how it works, so people know what we're gonna talk about all day. So we will talk about this extension and about this sentence that is indicated here, which may change if we adopt it will be necessary, will most likely be ensured that all clubs of this Parliament are made known to the Croatian public. So the fundamental political attitudes expressed, and the rest, if there is time before television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11671	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected deputy president Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11672	I thank Mr. President, because I think my colleague Bebic was mistaken, so perhaps he incorrectly said it was about signing an agreement with the European Commission. As we know from the formulation, it follows that this is until the conclusion of the negotiations, only then can an agreement be signed concerning or a chapter if we want to be more specific about agriculture and fisheries. As is known from all negotiations, one of the most difficult chapters and most complicated chapters in the common agreement with the European Union, which is only signed directly from all countries, is seen only indirectly before the entry into the European Union and some countries have even delayed some of the elements of the Agriculture and Fisheries chapters they sign after or which they will start to implement after entering the European Union. So this is the minimum, minimum 2008. If we're lucky.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11673	Thank you very much. HSLS representative club, DC.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11674	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have to admit that these five years I've been sitting in these benches in this High House, we haven't had this debate. We discussed what Croatian television will broadcast, we pressured the then president, Mr. Tomcic, who I must honestly say that he has always tried to talk to the Croatian TV administration and ensure transfers at the request of MPs, we asked that certain points be sought and the time to broadcast from the Croatian Parliament or to move, but we never changed the methodology, the Rules of Procedure or tried to pass the Rules of Procedure to seek something that was difficult to achieve. For two hours now, we have been discussing whether we are going to start discussing this important topic, whether there will be cameras and how many of them will be included, and I think that in this way we are all a little bit together and we have one wrong attitude about the Croatian public because the Croatian public is not only the public forum that suits us most with the representatives, so that public forum that conveys our image as politicians but is the Croatian public and all of these people from other media houses who will pass on from, what will be spoken here. Therefore, when it comes to ensuring public residence and whether it will be heard through all public forums, we must say that all other media houses or media sources can also transfer the debate on the eco-fishing belt and when the cameras are turned off. That's the first one. Secondly, I fully agree and repeat once again that according to all the research, more people will look at us in the afternoon than they will look at in the morning. And thirdly, I repeat once again that it doesn't matter how many of us they're going to look at us at any point because here, as Parliamentarians, we perform one important legislative and representative function whether we're being followed by cameras from 3 to 5 or to half 6 or from half 10 to 1. So let's not take down Parliament's work No public, no, no, sorry Croatian TV is not the only voice of the public. [[Intruder: In public.]] The second is that we love to see our picture. We also have a Croatian radio that can transmit just as easily except it won't broadcast our pictures. So let's not, let's not identify the whole public just with what we'd most like to see on the screen. That's the first thing I want to say. Second. I will remind you, all of you who today strongly plead for the public that we were, for example, waiting to discuss that famous parade of former Prime Minister Racan for an agreement with the Piran Bay for a few months. Please, it's signed. The paraphras was put on the deal, so we've been waiting for a debate for a few months. And today, the parliamentary majority and the government want to open this debate right away, they just want to open it this afternoon. Therefore, neither this debate is delayed, nor is this debate prevented, nor does anyone want to eliminate the debate. No one does, nor does anyone want to ensure that the public stays in that debate. I'm asking you nicely, and yesterday we lost two hours to agree on a methodology and today we're wasting two hours to agree on a methodology and we're just stealing time from that public. And now we're being followed by cameras and I assure you that people wonder what we're even discussing. Let's get started, let's start with the dot. I listened to you carefully, I see you've been played, I see you've been played out which is good. You're impatient, which is good. It just, it just increases, your impatience increases the desire and value of this rabble, but let's just, then let's start discussing it, let's not negotiate a methodology that's very familiar. So I don't see any reason why this afternoon at 15 we wouldn't start discussing the eco-fishing zone. When it comes to urgency These Themes [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague.]] Well, I was interrupted. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I've got to go now. Mr. President, I've been looking for a minute longer for this leprosy colleague Pusic. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11675	Don't. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11676	When it comes to the urgency of this topic
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11677	My colleagues and colleagues! It serves honor to those who smile, earn. Thank you, to those who behave that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11678	When it comes to the urgency of this topic, then I must repeat that both the former assembly of the Parliament and the former Government, when deciding on an ecological and fishing zone, has delayed or passed a law with delayed application, and then I see no reason why we should be so urgent and why we would not allow any further delay in application. So let us not now hysterize about this article, these provisions, and that law. Let's start today's debate because this is what the Croatian public expects of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11679	Thank you very much. And Club Libra. Dear Representative William Herman, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11680	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, you might say a lot of yelling about nothing because a few things are simply being imposed. The essence of all these thoughts is, however, in the following: Prime Minister Sanader should simply be in the assembly when discussing a subject of particular importance. Well, I guess there's no question that the topic of the ecological-fishing zone and the change of its legal regime is of particular importance. It is, above all, because this topic determines the relationship of our country, the Republic of Croatia with Slovenia, with Croatia, and that the relationship with the European Union is also established. Turning your head out of this would mean not only being irresponsible but it would mean declaring this topic such that it is not of particular interest. Is that even possible? If it is really possible to achieve agreement, and it is simply there. It is assumed to be a subject of particular interest then equally necessary and is assumed to be a television broadcast. Not because of Prime Minister Sanader, not because of us, but because of the particulars of the topic, especially the important topics. Besides, the deal with television is exactly what it assumes. When particularly important topics are then television will not only be included but will be monitored permanently, continuously monitoring the work of this Assembly again because of a particularly significant topic. And it can't be particularly important to deal only with the Club of Representatives, although the Clubs of Representatives, because if that were the case then the MPs would actually be in some other order and even in the last row in which we are sitting colleagues Radoš and me and colleagues Pavlic, the one of the highest order, the last order, and if they are MPs and they should speak when the topic is particularly important, and in front of the public. All in all, the clubs and MPs because of a particularly important topic, and television should be broadcast with the presence of Prime Minister Sanader, I think it is assumed. You don't have to lead things to nonsense and say, "Let's vote on whether it's a particularly important topic. So, if that is the case, we simply make an effort to have a debate with Prime Minister Sanader, with the public communicating with the presence of Prime Minister Sanader, an important debate on an important topic. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11681	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the proposals are the clubs of opposition parties to move the debate for tomorrow with the presence of the Prime Minister, and the speciality of allowing the public, through direct television transmission, to monitor this debate. I agree with that, but I got from Croatian Radio Television because I asked according to your suggestions and requirements, that today from 14 hours to 18.10 so 4 full hours and 10 minutes live live, on Croatian radio television, so in the time and in which there is 4 hours and 10 minutes to transfer the subject of changing the jurisdiction of the fishing area. So I'm going to start now with a debate on criminal law, if it's not completed, we're going to interrupt it, and at 1400 we're going to start with this item of the agenda, for which for direct follow-up 4 and 10 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, since this session of the Croatian Parliament did not consume all the proposed and set out in the agenda of the agenda, in accordance with Article 201. I'm schedulering a follow-up session for the 16th, 17th and 18th June. With the beginnings at 9.30 in the morning. Until the agenda is exhausted. And so the anstack doesn't do these sessions. And I announce that the next session will be scheduled on June 30th and will continue until the end of the constitutional deadline for the regular session of the assembly on 15 July this year. Thank you very much. Respect only, Vice-President of the House, respected Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11683	Mr. President, I would like to ask as a representative but on behalf of the HSLSA and DC Club what happened at the session there are no representatives of the opposition, which is with strong arguments, allow, with strong arguments warned that we are not doing enough, that we are receiving salaries Some have even said that they are ashamed to receive salaries and do not work, and today they are not. Friday afternoon. So I don't know if you have an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11684	...Mrs. Vice President. But it is a matter of assessing conscience, responsibility to the electoral body and the Croatian Assembly of those who act in this way. So you interrupted the session and continued this session in the days as it was carried out. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue our work at the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. The consolidated text of the agenda is divided into benches and in this 7th session should discuss everything provided for by the set agenda for the 7th session. 8th session today I have scheduled for the days from 7 July until the constitutional deadline of the regular session of the Assembly on 15 July with the agenda you will receive or have already received where all those points were included and all those proposals that were to be included in the agenda in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please, come in! Representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11686	On behalf of the HSP Club, first of all, I thank you for keeping your word. Since you have announced that there will be a new 8th session that Vice-President of Parliament 18 has been denied, we are pleased to see it on behalf of the HSP Club. And secondly, we are interested in when this system of electronic voting will finally function in the Croatian Parliament because it has been difficult for six months. The HSP Club is ready to give its volunteers a chance to finally function.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11687	Thank you very much. The electronic vote will be when, as I have the secretary's report, that everything is not prepared technical system and that is why I cannot and that I want to organise an electronic vote. Fellow Members and colleagues, as regards the 2nd, 3rd and 4th points of the consolidated agenda, therefore, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, P.Z. No. 96, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, P.Z. No. 98th and Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, P.Z. No. 97. which all three draft laws are proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs in the first reading has no conditions for discussion since the Government did not give an opinion on these proposals of the Law. In view of that, they would not debate them today until the opinion came. As regards the 5th and 6th points of the proposal for a purified, established agenda, the proposal for a Law on the State Fund for the Temporary Child Support is a proposal from Ms Djurdja Adlesic, P.Z. No. 37th and Proposal for a Law on the State Fund for Child Support, where the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, is the same first reading, P.Z. No. 42. Since there is no proposal for Law No 37 as it is absent, the agreement is also with the SDP Club's proposal for Law No 42 to bring the debate together tomorrow. Let's start that debate tomorrow about these two bill proposals, about State funds for temporary child support.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11689	On behalf of the club, thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday in the afternoon part of the Parliament under the 14th agenda, we should have discussed the report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia. Vice-President Mr. Bebic, when this came to the agenda, phonogram, "now we should move to the 14th item of the agenda Report on the work of the National Foundation, however, there are no conditions for this debate, since it is not the present applicant, and this is Professor Dr. Pero Lucin, the chairman of the Management Board, he is in Rijeka, once the conditions are secured, then we will discuss this item of the agenda". After that, I spoke to Mr. Luc's phone, who was abroad at the time and told me the following. "Until 10 o'clock I was in Rijeka, no one has ever informed me by the 10 o'clock that the report of our foundations on the agenda of this session and that it should be in the Assembly as a representative of the proposings." Given that such an intrinsic sentence results in Mr. Lucin's irresponsibility that it was not the conditions for this point to be processed. Mr. President, I'm asking you to establish who made the mistake that the motionary's representative wasn't invited to the Parliament's meeting to represent that point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11690	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me take this opportunity for something that seems to me to be the duty of this House to do at this moment, which is to pay a few words of attention to the death of Stipe Shuvar and the funeral that is currently taking place. I would like to point out how, as a culture minister, I feel a special duty to highlight the meaning of Mr. Shuvar and to him, some major projects and national and university libraries and the Mimara Museum and many other slides remain. It is understood, in our political meetings, our social gatherings, and to put it this way, we had many very different opinions on many things. But it seems to me that it is common, and that is, that all worked for Croatia and Mr Stipe Shuvar was at one point found himself in a very difficult and responsible position. I think we owe him the respect in this regard. And I think that's what I'd like to propose to Mr. President, since I intend to propose to you, Mr. President, I've been waiting for you to finish your conversation. I think it would be okay for you to say again on the occasion of what you once said, "Hi, Stipe."
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11691	Dear Representative Vujic. I, on behalf of the Croatian Parliament of all MPs and MPs, sent a quick message to the family of the deceased Stipe Šuvar with words you have all heard and I hold that the Croatian Parliament has done its duty, because Stipe Šuvar was elected to the SR Assembly of Croatia then as a member of the SFRJ presidency. And I don't want to comment on this other note of yours. Since we have two decisions left to vote on the proposal for a decision to participate members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace mission of India and Pakistan, and a decision to refer members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia to a peacekeeping mission which requires a two-thirds majority of the votes of all representatives on the proposal of certain clubs, it would set a 10-minute break in which I ask that consultations be conducted between clubs to achieve the loudness of whether we can approach the vote to obtain this two-thirds majority. So, the break would be at 11 o'clock. Then we'll decide on this vote, and at 12 o'clock would be a session to discuss the legal aspects of the Hague indictments. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin by asking questions to the government or to an individual member of the government. The current morning shall be held at the beginning of each session prior to the first item of the agenda. In the current morning, representatives of organised club representatives can ask a total of 40 questions, independent representatives who are not elected on the political party list, representatives of national minorities who are not organised in a club of representatives, and one representative of political parties who do not have a club of representatives can ask questions at each other's session. The number of questions that representatives of a particular club may ask shall be determined by the proportion of members of a particular club in relation to the total number of representatives in such a way that the number of members of a particular club is divided by four with the result of 0.50 and more adjustments. By asking oral parliamentary questions, the MPs shall announce in writing no later than 24 hours before the start of the session of the Assembly. The written announcement shall contain the name and the name of the representative who wishes to ask a representative question, the indication of the question to which the question is being asked, and the indication of the area to which the question relates. The president of the parliament is obliged to organise a jiggling exercise that determines the order to ask oral parliamentary questions. After drawing up a list with a preview of written announcements, it is delivered to the Prime Minister. Representatives' clubs have been authorised to change the area and order for up to three issues announced by members of the club, which they are obliged to inform the President of the Parliament and the Prime Minister no later than one hour before the start of the meeting of the Assembly. A representative can ask one question. The issue must be brief and clearly formulated and generally so that it can be answered immediately and without preparation. The representative may express satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the answer to the parliamentary question by laying down the reasons for one minute. If he is dissatisfied with the answer, the representative may request that the government, or the minister, provide a written reply. During the current morning, the representative cannot request a word to respond to the alleged or correct incorrect allegations raised in the parliamentary question of another representative or, by replying to the parliamentary question, by the President or a member of the Government. The question can't last longer than two minutes. The answer to the asked question usually takes two minutes, and if this is due to the complexity of the question the answer may take up to four minutes. We've done all of this procedure and we're moving on to the current morning and asking questions. The first one is a respected representative of Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11693	President-in-Office of the Parliament, Prime Minister, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The issue of national minority representatives was addressed to Mr. Minister Shuker. In April 2004, the Ministry of Finance decided to amend the Value Added Tax Regulation which deleted non-profit organisations and associations from the list of legal persons exempt from VAT payments on goods and services paid or received from foreign donations. The way this decision is made is multiplely non-transparent. There was no announcement of the decision, no explanation or arguments were given as to why all associations and non-profit organisations were not included in the VAT Act which was changed at the time. A decision having an impact on the operations of associations and institutions and their donors was taken without discussion or dialogue. The organizations only found out about her when she was published in the People's Newspaper. A large part of these associations promotes the Constitution of protected values: democracy, human rights, rights to healthy life, environmental protection, education, and in particular all associations of national minorities promote the rights of national minorities stemming from the positive laws of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Ministers, how do you explain the inequality before the law of individual associations of national minorities, because one of these days you free from VAT payments and the others do not, although it is exclusively about the funds of the countries of origin to improve the working conditions of minorities? What criteria are you applying? Isn't it better to supplement the law with the missing three words: "non-profit organisations and associations"? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11694	Minister of Finance Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11695	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Madam Representative, I am very grateful for this question, because this is an opportunity to, as Minister of Finance, clarify on behalf of the Croatian Government a certain misunderstanding on this matter. In this House, therefore, there was a debate on the Law on Value Added Tax, and none of the honourable legislators who discussed the law mentioned that this article should be amended. So the article hasn't changed. The regulation adopted after the adoption of the Value Added Tax Act is only in compliance with the Law. The fact that someone has taken it as a right before the Regulation defines that, according to which non-profit organisations, institutions and other associations have been equated with humanitarian organisations, it is not in accordance with the Value Added Tax Act. The second thing, as regards all donations that come under the international contracts of the Republic of Croatia, remains all the material donations and all the material goods purchased on the basis of such donations are exempt from paying value added tax. Therefore, my conversation with representatives of the Italian national minority is not my discretionary right to grant them freedom, I don't give them any. Therefore, they have the right to be released in accordance with an interstate contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Italy. And that's what the law says. Therefore, as well as your national minority, if there is a contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Czech Republic, you get all the donations you receive from that basis, therefore, material VATs are released, and what you receive from donations, buy some sort of material good in Croatia, you are exempt from value added tax. Also, these days there has been a conversation with a number of associations, and when associations are familiar with the real problems that arise from this interpretation, from a regulation that is contrary to the Value Added Tax Act, the agreement is to create a working group, to find a compromise solution and to prevent those who push against NGOs to abuse it and abuse it. Because last year, 356 million kunas of value added tax were released. So, I repeat, if a national Czech minority or any other minority or any other association has, gets a donation according to an international contract signed by the Republic of Croatia whether with the European Union, whether with the Government of the Republic of the United States, whether with any other government. Therefore, donations were released from payment of value added tax. So also national minorities receiving donations from their countries of origin. And that's right, it's a legal provision, and therefore, no one can interpret that legal provision any other way. The fact that many who have not been recognized in the legal provisions have made one public panic, that's another pair of shoes. You have cases of two or three starting an association I don't know what, then getting a donation of 30, 40 thousand euros and on that basis buying a personal car that's free of VAT. So that's what we all have to fight. And secondly, you also have an opinion on fiscal policy, about, in a positive opinion of the European Union for the Republic of Croatia, where, among other things, in tax policy, it is noted that Croatia will have to abolish zero rates. But I'm saying, what you said, unfortunately, most of what you said doesn't stand. Therefore, donations based on international contracts are still exempt from paying value added tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11696	Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11697	Thank you very much. If it is possible to give a written reply, I would also be grateful for the fact that we need to see which article and which articles have been released.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11698	Dear representative Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11699	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I refer my question to the Prime Minister. Mr. President, you have made a public promise to return returnees, mostly to Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality, to return apartments and tenants' rights, which is assumed by the right to purchase an apartment under favourable conditions, which have been abandoned or expelled from it during the Serbian aggression on Croatia. Although it is quite clear, at least to me, that it is a promise that you will not make and that you have made by giving in to the International Community's unfounded demands, similar to the promise of reducing VAT from which you give up again by giving in to pressures, please respond. Are you going to return the rent rights and property rights to other Croatian citizens, particularly Croatian nationalities, who lost it by changing the Law in 1996 and who today have the status of a protected tenant? Unfortunately, in practice, often unprotected, exposed to chicing and evicting on the street.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11700	Prime Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11701	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam representative, if I had chosen a better question for the start of the current morning, I couldn't have chosen him. First, your government, your government in June last year... Your government in June last year and Mr. Representative Cacic signed something about POS and the return of tenant rights. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's the first one. So much for who gave in to the pressures of the international community. This government that I am at the head of doesn't give in to anyone's pressures, not to the international community, not to your gods. That's the first one. Secondly, those Croatian citizens who had a tenant right lost him, who left Croatia in 91. They've lost tenant rights and I can't get it back and I'm very clear here. There have been some questions at the beginning of this House, no return of tenant rights. Therefore, the fact that you're quoting that I promised someone a return of housing rights is a lie. It's simply not true because it can't go back to the law that it is and, which is also past the government and HDZ, and yours have come to terms with the International Community. What I said, and I will repeat it here, that we have understanding for those Croatian citizens who left Croatia, and they were investing in a housing fund at the time of socialism. In a time of socialism, therefore, of your followers, who are your followers. That's something to consider. So if they were paying into the fund, it should be considered and found a solution for these people because they were paying de facto money into the housing fund. And that's what the government stands on. And when it comes to VAT, that you mentioned it, then I want to say it very clearly once again, and we're going to have this at the government meeting today, we're going to have, I also called an extraordinary government meeting because of the fact that you and the Croatian public and the IMF have convinced that the deficit is 4.2%. Anyway, under four and a half percent. The deficit at the end of the IMF mission that we established together for 2003 was 5.9 to 6%. Since this government has inherited major problems and we are still discovering in what the former Cacic ministry and former Vlahusic's ministry have done, that we are revealing loans that have not been recorded anywhere, which are simply not registered anywhere. This is an extremely irresponsible relationship between the former government and the public, according to the taxpayers, so if you want to and towards those you cooperated with, because you sent a letter on 16 December, I have it here, in which you claim, signed by then Deputy Prime Minister Linic, and others, Minister of Finance, to claim that the deficit is below 4.5%. Therefore, we are in a situation where we must bear the burden that you are, because we have inherited you as a government, but we will not bear your lies, we will not bear the fact that you have been hiding, that we are still finding loans that are not registered anywhere, and we will make that clear today at the cabinet session. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11702	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, honourable representative, Vice-President Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11703	Mr. President, please protect us from such words as Mr. Sanader, MPs cannot be told in parliament that they lie again in this debate and that such degradation of the Croatian Parliament has not yet been seen here and I ask you to stop this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11704	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Vice President Darko Milinovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11705	The esteemed representative actually hurt the Rules of Procedure herself because she did not mention the article to which she was calling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11706	Dear Representative Željka Antunović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11707	Certainly I am not pleased with the answer, Mr. President, first of all you have answered about something that I have not asked you at all in that you have unfoundedly and unargumentedly offended and I hope that the President will reprove you for this because I, speaking in this House, have argued the lies of your Minister Hebrang, for this reason I have received neither the blame nor the duty. However, there is one thing that remains clear from your answer. You don't really know who you're going to bring back and who you're not going to give back to, and the fact remains that I'm right. You will return them to the returnees you say were paying into the fund, and you will not return them to Croatian citizens who have never fled from Croatia, who also paid into the fund and you will encourage another inequality in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11708	Thank you very much. There is a difference between truth and falsehood and lies that began the debate in this House, someone will mark as a conscious discrepancy between will and perception and knowledge, so that when it is used, let each one bear the conjecture of his own words. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11709	Thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm referring my question to Mr. Shucker, Minister of Finance. After taxpayers processed about 40% of tax returns with full government documentation, they heard announcements that the state would have to return considerable funds to those citizens and that the government would therefore abolish the many tax reliefs imposed by the former government for the citizens. Mr. Minister, is it possible, therefore, after the announcement that you are giving up the promised promise of a VAT reduction that you will lift the benefits of young people to buy apartments, young people who have raised loans to buy apartments, tenants for rent, patients for treatment, disabled people for their orthopaedic aids, all in all for those who do so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11710	Go ahead, Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11711	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, Your Honor, Madam Representative, I did not say first of all that we would cancel but after processing the tax returns that we would do an analysis of the effect of the reliefs that had a social category. So they had a proposal to be a social category to help those most socially vulnerable. However, after processing tax returns, unfortunately most of these reliefs were used by those who have large incomes and who pay income tax at 35 and 45%, so I did not increase the number of renters that had increased in the last two years by about 8 or 9 000 but the income was significantly reduced to two questions, first of all with the recognition of the relief to the tenants and we did not in such a way make it easier for the tenants for the simple reason that these tax burdens were transferred to them by their tenants. It is true that out of the 850 thousand tax returns, 730 thousand have a return of a total amount of billions and 150 million, and total payment in the budget is 300 million, and as regards the outstanding VAT promise only one example, the Croatian Railways, the Ministry of Transport and the linkages of the former, spent a total of 241 million kunas above what was approved in the 2003 budget, however, the biggest tragedy, no unrecorded gentlemen's credit to the modernisation of the EBRD loan. Plan 85 million, spent 138 million difference from 53 million anywhere unrecorded. Modernisation of HZ fleet loan to the EBRD total of 35 million, spent 72 million, the difference not recorded anywhere. Refurbishment of the railway in Corridor 5C loan... 50 million, spent 102 million, 52 million nowhere recorded. So, if that's how state finances are run, then you can talk about the 1% deficit and leave your heirs billions to collect, and also Croatian highways when Mr. Cacic laughs so sweetly 867 million unpaid liabilities. The second thing, the obligations of the Croatian highways are not paid by the Croatian government, but by the Croatian highways, so at least you claimed, they have an independent way of financing and you can't say that those 200 million you reportedly said yesterday were not paid to the performers by the Croatian government, the former government's obligation was 230 million out of 760 million total bonds issued to transfer to the HAC by 20. The 11th, you didn't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11712	Easy, buddy. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11713	Thank you very much. Mr. Shuker, you are not at the rally, you are in the Croatian Parliament and you are not answering my question at all. These benefits were just in order to make life easier for the poorer citizens, those who are exactly, and those who are filling the state budget, the poorest, so you should be able to control the implementation of these measures that the former government has imposed rather than abolishing those measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11714	Honorable representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11715	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I ask the question to the Croatian Prime Minister, Evey Sanader. Work on Sundays is not the biggest economic and social problem, but it shared the Croatian public especially after the Constitutional Court's decision to abolish the legal ban on trade on Sundays. The work law of Sunday has been established as the day of the week’s vacation and the work is allowed if it comes to the necessary work with the right to an increased salary. So I'm asking. Does the Croatian Government have a solution to get out of the existing situation, which would limit the work of trade on Sundays without damage to the general economy, but also enable the necessary supply of citizens, I mean here on family crafts and trades that do not employ other people's labour force, flower shops, bakerys, gas stations, and news shops especially during the tourist season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11716	Prime Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11717	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Representative. First of all, I would like to say that the Constitutional Court has made a decision to respect, made a decision that the former Law adopted in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament, which was voted by the Croatian Democratic Community, that this decision should be respected, or that it should be found on the very trail of this as you have stated, that the supply in the most necessary part should be guaranteed but that all people should be protected from what we are talking about. In that sense, the government is preparing, and I will personally say, I am against working on Sundays. and this Government is preparing a law that will also be in line with the European Union, with regulation within the European Union, but also that will meet the constitutional provisions, so that the possible action against the new law is not such that the Constitutional Court must again make a decision to repeal the law. In this regard, we also want to invite all those in Croatia who represent our position. That there should be no work on Sundays, but to ensure the necessary supplies, to join us in making this bill. We do not need to rush and we do not intend to rush, send it through the month, two to the Parliament, but, if it takes a few months by the end of the year to really see and to create such a law that will guarantee, on the one hand, that the Constitutional Court will not undo, and on the other hand, that will ensure these values that we are talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11718	Honorable representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11719	Thank you very much. I am satisfied with the answer, because Croatia needs better, Croatia certainly needs a better Trade Act. However, it should take a turn as well as other Central European countries. That's why I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11720	Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11721	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Cobankovic. Mr. Minister, in the past 12 years, the two biggest accidents followed by Croatia's agriculture, and hence Croatian society are uncontrolled and unnecessary imports of food and combinations. To remind myself of the past 13 years in Croatia, 11 billion dollars worth of food imported according to official data. And really that's at least that much. It's literally garbage. You literally get fruit and vegetables. Here's what I'm going to do. He's more than tragic. In the first three months of this year, it was imported to Croatia according to official data from frozen pig meat of 5 thousand and 700 tonnes, which is the meat from where it was imported reliablely I know it was there for at least a year in freezers. I know the importer who imported in 12 months last year a thousand tons of frozen pig meat, which was a year in the country he imported from. I ask this question to both you and the president of the Croatian government and to our representatives that we finally stop to say, with a football jargon, with a foot on the ball. We're poisoning our people, we're about to have a tourist season, we're going to poison our guests, our tourists. When we walk around Croatian markets today, we see 95% of the import fruit and vegetables. I assure you that in my own time as a journalist, I have testified that this is the most common well-concentrated garbage. Quality no, five, six times more expensive than it is in the land from where it was imported. My question is: What is the actual control of imported food, especially fruit, vegetables and frozen meat, and will the controls now increase before the tourist season? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11722	Minister Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11723	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. and Mrs. Representatives. Let me say a few words about the problem spoken of by the esteemed representative Lonchar. Certainly, and this is the fact that one of the major problems of Croatian agriculture is right now and this is why I would say imports of farmed agricultural products into the Republic of Croatia. It is also a fact that by liberalising the market through contracts and entering the WTO and free trade agreements with certain countries, Croatia has created conditions for me to say far greater conditions and opportunities for importing food and agricultural food products. But I also believe that we need to create a certain legislation and that, in that direction, a certain shift has already been made, the Food Law has been passed, the establishment of a food agency is under way and the establishment of reference laboratories that will be able to work on food control. This is exactly the way to protect both domestic consumers and those who will come to us as tourists. For these reasons, we are taking maximum measures to, I say, comply with the legislation which will also be in line with the European Union means with greater control and, but we must have certain institutions that can exercise that control. For these reasons, there will be much greater control at the border entrance, so we will not apply any administrative measures to prevent imports, because there is no longer a possibility. We can only, significantly more control and establish legislation and institutions to protect ourselves from imports of non-quality food. What you were talking about are accurate data, unfortunately, and the fact that in this year or better in the first three months, we have a significant increase in imports and compared to the previous year which, by import, has been the largest, but also the fact that this is a good part and result of last year's conditions or better conditions and basic disasters than droughts, that we have practically entered into this year without agricultural products that are actually raw materials for the further food industry, but still in chains. For these reasons, there have been some increases, making maximum efforts and related to the production of deficit products, because the fact is that we cannot stop imports if we do not have sufficient coverage of our own production. In this context, we should also look at these activities that we are carrying out for the development of operational programmes for the raising of long-term plantations, meaning vineyards, orchards, olive groves, the production of an operational programme to increase the production of vegetables and flowers on the one hand and a significantly higher orientation towards livestock production in terms of meat and milk production. In this context, there will also be this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on financial support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11724	Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11725	Mr. Minister, according to the Rules of Procedure, I can make pleasure or dissatisfaction in one minute, but I'm just going to stop. Croatia cannot be an island in the European market economy, and cannot be isolated. But it is about people, the agromafia has mastered the entire Croatian society. And that's terrible data. If you need to hire 5,000 people to control it or finally stand on the mob's head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11726	Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11727	Dear President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. Although this issue could have been addressed to the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, I refer it to Mr. Shucker's finance minister. The insurance companies within basic health insurance shall have the right to ex post salary during their stay for the first 42 days on the employer's burden, and during the 42 days on the burden of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. If the employer pays a higher salary to the worker during the sick period, which can be arranged by collective agreements, it will result in a delay in the return of funds at the level of the criteria prescribed by the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, i.e. the Obligation Insurance Contribution Act. In this situation, the damaged employer and the increasingly frequent access to pay salaries to HZZO workers, as he is domiciled to pay the contracted salary. When the salary pays HZZO maternity leave, insolvency of the company, pre-banking and bankruptcy proceedings, the insurance is paid to the net salary compensation, and the data on the payment of pension insurance contributions, the 1st and 2nd pillar failed to obtain. Given that there is no category of net salary in our legislation, the term salary implies gross salaries, the Minister of Finance, since all the money is concentrated on the state budget, whether it is only a lack of compliance with legal and sublegal acts, or because of the different interpretation and process of law, a new category of insurance workers who only partially exercise their legal rights and who will in the long term reduce pension rights. I'm also asking if we're building a health insurance and pension insurance system or just reducing insurance rights from year to year without anyone asking insurance. I remind you, the right to pay during a stay is the right of an insurance undertaking to legally determine cases rather than privileges. Since the phenomenon has dimensions of at least 100,000 insurance companies whose contributions have been paid at a level below the required minimum basis for the payment of contributions, I believe that because of the possible creation of new poor or new poverty, this phenomenon deserves our attention. I ask for your brief opinion, and because of the complexity of matter, I seek a written response possible in the coordination of several ministries.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11728	Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11729	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! I fully agree with you, given that this is a very broad topic, it gets into the work of several ministries and several laws and because of its sensitivity to give you a written reply, however, according to information I have from the Croatian Health Insurance Office, contributions are paid for payment for sick leave. So I also say because of the sensitivity and complexity of this question, I suggest a written answer if you agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11730	Come on in. Come in. Come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11731	I thank the Minister for this answer. I'd also like to see that information on the payment of pension contributions and ask that they be delivered to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11732	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11733	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President! I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Namely, I ask this question at the request of part of the fire-fighting, county fire-fighting communities of the continental part of Croatia who are preparing for their trip to the coast during the tourist season and I hope only to prevent and not intervene. Namely, voluntary fire companies, fire departments and fire departments pay VAT when purchasing vehicles, equipment, spare parts and services. According to Article 48. However, they have the right to return VAT on the basis of requests and processed or issued solutions by tax offices. I have several such solutions from the first half of April of this year and I ask the Minister of Finance to apply to the fire departments when they will receive their VAT refund for the past calendar year. According to these data, about 6 million kunas would be invested in the emergency purchase of new equipment for this coming season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11734	Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11735	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! I thank Mr. Representative for this question, however, one false interpretation. They are not firemen, fire communities, voluntary fire companies free of value added tax under the Fire Department, but based on the Law on the implementation of the budget. And I have to say, for the first time, this government has built it into the budget law. The past government for insistence and then me as an agent and Mr. Drandic did not want to install it. Therefore, for the first time, firefighters were defined by the Law on Budget Implementation that they would be returned with value added tax. Therefore, within 30 days of the submission of the request, a refund of value added tax should be made. If it happened somewhere that it wasn't done, I ask you nicely to give me a notice and I will give the tax administration a warrant to comply with the law, which is that within 30 days you return the value added tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11736	Representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11737	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]] The law on fire that is not a new subject and in the course of last year they had the same right was merely a matter of filing requests and processed applications and I will send to the ministry copies of the Offices of the Ministry of Finance's regional offices on approved payments but unpaid money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11738	Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11739	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen! A question for Madam Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Dear Vice-Presidents, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina recently passed a Law on the rights of defenders and members of their families. The application of this law has been postponed for defenders of the Croatian Defence Council for a year and seven months to reach agreement with the Croatian side on a uniform and final solution to the issue of the rights of members of the Croatian Defence Council. With daily contacts with the Croats there, this problem is imposed as a priority. What the Ministry and our Government intend to do in order to make this issue fair and lasting, i.e. Finally solved?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11740	Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11741	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs, honourable MPs! Mr. Bagaric, here we are, of course, informed that a law was adopted in Bosnia and Herzegovina as it is called there on the fighters and victims of the Bosnia and Herzegovina war, whose application begins in early 2006. We, however, have been working intensively to prepare an interstate agreement since the start of this government's mandate. Since the agreement that was made and prepared by the ministry last year was an agreement with which representatives of the Croatian people or the victims were not satisfied, then we came to them for a new agreement. That is why a special task force has been formed which is working intensively to prepare the agreement and I expect it to be completed by the end of July and then, of course, during the year, by the end of the year at the latest and signed. I can also inform you in writing about the details when I receive a new work group report and, of course, when the draft agreement is also prepared for you and for all other interested representatives, I will send for any observations and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11742	Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11743	I am satisfied with the answer, and as an advocate who is partly understood and in this problem, or I am involved in putting myself on the line in terms of making a final solution, in the sense that I do not know and pass on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11744	Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11745	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I ask the question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader. Last Thursday on the Croatian Radio show representative... The fund said it was agreed with the government to sign the Treaty on the Sale of Sunny Hvar to the fund. [[You don't understand.]] According to his statement, the contract was written, even quoted some of its parts, only the question was questionable. Please, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, why do you deceive the Croatian public by post-scheduling competitions when a representative... The fund clearly says that the decision to sell Sunny Hvar was made to them. [[You don't understand.]] It's all without the public, without a legal arrangement, it is an exceptional reminder of HDZ's practice "legal privatisations from the 1990s". And one more thing. Please keep in your answer whether it is correct or incorrect to refrain from insulting. I'm asking you nicely the exact answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11746	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11747	Well, sir, I will not answer your insult like that, but I suggest you say that I deceive the Croatian public. And you're asking me at the end of the question so I don't insult you. You insulted me because I do not deceive the Croatian public. And now I'm gonna tell you what's going on. So, you said someone, a representative... or anyone third in Croatia interests me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll tell you what's the state of things now. The situation follows that the Croatian government has issued a public call for a public private partnership. That after that on May 5th at its session, these are documents that are easily verifiable, which can be seen. That after that on May 5th she made a decision that has two paragraphs. First, to support the proposal of a public private partnership as stated by... And secondly to support it, not to make a decision, but to support it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And secondly, to be in charge of the Ministry of Economy, the Privatisation Fund and the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism and Development, to provide us with a proposal within the appropriate period, which documents and what needs to be done for the realisation of this job. So, on May 5th, which is the date that was, the date that he provoked, and the government's decision that provoked a big debate in which the debate was debated, many took part with very malicious, with very malicious positions. So, on May 5th, the government made no decision, except that it tasked the ministry to prepare in the context of a public private partnership the necessary decision of the government. That's what the Vukelic Ministry did. And last week, on the basis of a proposal from the ministry agreed with the Calemta Ministry and the Privatisation Fund, we made a decision on tendering. So we didn't deceive anyone, there's no contract. There's an offer, there's an offer... who, who answered a public call like anyone else can. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So much for that. So the whole story isn't over. Secondly, this does not remind us of the 90s privatisation, this even reminds us, this much more reminds us of the best possible achievements and solving similar situations in the West. In Ireland, Finland, therefore, in countries similar to Croatia, often referred to. And in comparison to the 1990s, the former government sold hotels like this for 1 kuna. And after that it didn't even know where that owner went, we have a case on the Makarska Riviera, not to quote now because of the beginning of the tourist season not to harm that hotel complex, that's what you were doing. We haven't decided anything, we invite everyone to report to the competition, and that tender means that the government would give to the management of the stock and that after three or five years the shares go to the stock market, so they're not sold, they're given to the management. Counting that the management company or the fund will also call on all other funds and management companies in Croatia. Because we have Croatian state property, we have simply dead capital. Now let's forget for a moment Sunny Hvar, we have land, we have shares, we have real estate, it's dead capital that the state only costs. I call on everyone in Croatia and we will call a tender to surrender it to management companies, to enlarge and to sell afterwards and to have profit both of them and the state and those involved. So it'll be all transparent and if he comes after the contest. And one more thing to say, thank you for this question to say, too. The contest will be, I'm looking for a minimum month, so not two weeks, that's precisely why everyone has the opportunity to enter the Sunny Hvar and make... and make an offer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After that, we'll decide who's the best bidder.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11748	Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11749	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr. President identified himself with the government, I said that the government is cheating, so the government, it's not the personal administration, it's the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, let me tell you, you haven't announced the decision to call a tender and she's gone, and you've conducted the talks, and the principle has been agreed. You've now confirmed that by your own statement. Therefore, it would be good for you to make your statement in writing and deliver it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11750	The Honorable Representative, Milorod Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11751	Mr. President, I'm not a Pupovian, but I would ask a question because that's what we agreed if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11752	On a daily basis, it's your turn to do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11753	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11754	Then you should have let me know.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11755	We did.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11756	Yes, if you'd let me know, then I wouldn't read you now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11757	Okay. Can I ask a question after all?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11758	If you have, MPs can contact you. Just look at the situation you're putting me in right now. You didn't inform me an hour ago. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11759	You decide what happens now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11760	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11761	That's why I'm gonna ask a useful question. I would, I would like to ask the Ministry of the Sea, etc., because I am wasting my time and I see Mr. Bačić on behalf of a large number of people who have no electricity and live under the conditions of a four-year-old. It's about thousands of people and it's about a lot of places. Just to be illustrative, in Kordun, in the area of Slunj and Barilovic 25 places, in Lica 22, in the area of Zadar, Benkovac, Obrovac, Lišani 18, in Banija 27 etc. Now, I know that HEP, at one time from the installation, was removing transceivers and some other, some other equipment on the routes, probably had a reason. Now that equipment is the reason that there's no power, probably something else, but in any case it's a large number of people and it's a elemental thing. And I also know that a donation has been made to resuscitate this thing. I ask therefore, does the ministry have to get rid of it quickly, and if there is, I'd like to hear it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11762	Thank you very much. I hurt my colleague's Rules of Procedure because you weren't even in the jiggling business. You are not in favour of the parliamentary question reported, and you have led me to the order and that you have informed me of what is not true and I cannot and will never allow anyone to change the Rules of Procedure without amending the Rules of Procedure to change and enter the parliamentary questions without being reported or withdrawn. I need Mr. Pupovac to speak and don't bring me into this situation anymore. Secretary of State Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11763	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. The Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development actively monitors the restoration of family buildings and infrastructures in areas for which you have raised the question. As regards the electrification of these areas and infrastructure arrangements, the infrastructure-building programme... Croatian electricity is also carried by our Ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to Croatia's electricity programme, almost 100% of these settlements are planned this year. The remaining part, which is not with the regional development administration of our ministry, has established the overall electrification of the area. Therefore, by the end of the year all the areas you have listed will be by either HEP or the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development of electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11764	Dear Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11765	Dear Mr. President, members of the government, I'm asking Minister Cobankovic. I, in the last term, have on several occasions asked the issue of anti-urban defence against fighting in Croatia, and each time I have received a different answer that will be resolved, a promise that this will be examined by the Institute of Justification of such a system that we have, however, so far nothing has been done. Farmers especially in the northwestern part of Croatia where they are fighting and are most often interested in it. We'd finally like to know. I was particularly moved by the issue of the debate that is being held these days by media about the quality of purchased and paid anti-building missiles that are in the warehouse and now that they should be used in a constant manner so that they do not work. They don't fit the terms. And secondly, on expert debates whether the anti-building defense against the fight, the pro-tourque defense against the fight, is it a good system or is it not good? Any new ones? What solution? So I would ask you, the difference between experts is large and obvious, so I would ask you as a resolute minister to answer me if possible today, if not in writing, what will the Croatian Government, or the Ministry, propose and do, which solution will it really be finally resolved in Croatia and to know what will happen to this existing or what will be tomorrow as a solution? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11766	Minister Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11767	Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I think it's one thing to say, I would say an extremely serious problem, and the fact is that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy has held three meetings in the course of these last few months with representatives of the State Hydrometeorological Institute, the Ministry of Science, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Finance. The fact is also that the practical form of anti-urban protection using anti-urban missiles is no longer used anywhere in Europe. And it's also accurate information that you're saying at a storage facility at the State Hydrometeorological Institute is currently around, it seems to me, 3500 or something, a missile that was used last year has justifiable suspicion that these missiles are not correct. The state hydrometeorological institute has ordered the skills of a company that is, uh, authorized for this skill and skill has been established that these missiles do not meet the safety standards. So these missiles can't be used for simple reasons, security reasons. As far as the issues are concerned, the profession, meaning the Ministry of Science and the State Hydrometeorological Institute are concerned, there is no justification for the anti-urban protection of the use of anti-urban missiles, and this, as I would say, also argue that virtually no longer in Europe, such a form of anti-urban protection is used. So their point of view is that it is not justified to invest certain funds in this form of protection because it does not provide certain security. On the other hand, our direct producers, so those who were practically concerned with this defense against the fight, were at the stand that the anti-urban defense was good at using anti-urban missiles. But it's also a fact that because of the non-use of anti-urban missiles in neighbouring countries, I'm holding and I'm standing on the stand that it can't be done in the right way and if we approach the anti-urban defenses, defenses with anti-urban missiles because of the inability to coordinate and timely classify exactly the rocket, I tend to think more of the profession, and I'm standing at the point that, uh, they wouldn't be effective enough. On the other hand, we will draw up a conclusion that will be referred to the government's session. We will try again to consider the complete situation and I just had an agreement with the Home Secretary to reconsider this, the security aspect of the use of these missiles, and then we will make a proposal for a solution to the anti-building protection of the government. But I would also like to point out that, uh, through the incentives and support in agriculture, co-financed by agricultural crops means a 25% grant co-financing by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11768	Dear Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11769	Well, in principle, I am satisfied with the answer, but it should still come up with a final solution and that it is finally known what is in Croatia in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11770	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11771	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's the situation of my colleague Jarnjak and I are asking the same minister and the same subject. And unlike my colleague, Jarnjak, I am not satisfied with the answer and so that there is no question that only northwestern Croatia would be interested in, Mr. Minister, that question interests both yours and my Slavonia. And I would remind you that the mayors of Slavonia and northwestern Croatia discussed the issue of defence against the fight at their joint meeting and that they have referred you to conclusions that have not been answered so far. In fact, the Hydrometeorological Institute has been trying for many years to convince the former government and this Assembly of the ineffectiveness of the defence against the fight. Fortunately so far, however, this has failed with the constitution of the new government, the new government has not provided funding in the budget for funding a law that is still in force. You didn't want to accept an amendment that would secure those funds, and now we're actually exposed to weather opportunities and coincidences. Mr. Minister Chobankovic, are you aware that you have taken responsibility not only for the damage but also for reducing production? There's been a time since the fight took place. There have also been damages, and if this government accepts the opinion of the Hydrometeorological Institute and their recommendation that it is the most effective protection against the fighting of the extraction of networks, perhaps to inform us about when the Government intends to extract these protection networks over Croatia and thus not only save crops and production in agriculture but also economic facilities and everything that damage occurs. And one more sentence. Since we have the Law on Defence against Fight for all the damages that occur in Croatia because of the non-functioning and non-implementation of this law, this government is responsible. Are you ready to carry that burden before us Slavs and in front of all of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11772	Minister Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11773	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. I'll answer the last part of your question. I'm ready. If I wasn't willing to carry that burden, I wouldn't be in this business either. But, uh, I'm gonna do what I said one more time. We must respect the attitudes of the profession and the people who know part of that problem. It's one thing to speak so affirmatively and to pass on responsibility to someone else. The other thing is, I'll fill in Mr. Capricorn's answer here. I said that this week we're going to have another consultation with the Ministry of the Interior regarding the security aspect of the missiles that exist...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11774	To me you answer the parliamentary question of MP Lalić. Don't mention the answer to the representative's question, Ivan Jarnjak, because that's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11775	The same question is, I just want to say that we're going to make a motion to defend against the fight will be directed to the government and will need to make a final decision on that. And if anyone can take responsibility for the consequences of the natural disasters associated with the fight, I don't think anyone can. And we're also in previous years, and we're going to get the exact data out, how much damage it was when the defense program was being implemented, so we can show that even when you successfully ran the program from the fight that there were equally great damages that just happened with the fight. And for these reasons, I say very quickly I am conscious of the situation and I know that the time has begun when the fight can come to a fight. And we've already had some places to fight, we'll make a decision to make a proposal and bring it to the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11776	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11777	Well, I'm not responsible for Mr. Minister's question, of course, to consult a profession that changes its mind from case to case. But I recommend you consult local self-government. Because with the opinion of the profession there are experiences, Mr. Minister. By the time we were 90 years old, there was a missile defense against the kid, and we have a record of what was going on. Since the 90th, it hasn't worked anymore, so the time has come to protect the generators and we have these experiences. So from that point of view, consider what kind of profession this is today, which gives such opinions tomorrow, and especially if we get from one person opinions that are partially cut and as such and incorrectly falsified.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11778	Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11779	Mr. President, I have a question for Mr. Hebrang's vice-president. After the first analysis of the product on the existence of genetically modified organisms, you explicitly presented the data for one of the products of Perutnine Pico from Čakovec. Afterwards, the company had a significant decline in traffic and pulled the product out of traffic. She has been threatened with business and employment by several hundred workers and co-operatives. You have also recently stated that analysis of the existence of GMOs has established a call for 19 more products. You didn't name any products or companies. Personally, I believe that consumers have the right to such information. You, as Vice-President of the Croatian Government, must have responsibility for the said and liability for the consequences of such information. I'm asking you who, because the azlog that you have different standards in these two cases, is the reason that the poultry Pico from Čakovec is owned by a foreign company.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11780	Deputy Prime Minister Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11781	Dear Mr. President, I strongly deny your statement that I gave the name of the food manufacturer with or by supplying food with GMO content. Because I am a member of the Croatian government that adheres to Croatian laws and works under Croatian law, and the Croatian law forbids me to explain it now. I've been attacked often over the past few months because I'm not going to say the name of that food manufacturer or supplier in whose subject we discovered the GMO above 0.9%. Neither did I give the name of this producer that you said, nor will I ever say any part of it because Article 71 of the Labour Act says that the name of the producer or the food trader who finds GMOs or which other illegal content is not published. I'm assembling that article. Except where there is a problem in removing, so where that producer or food supplier does not wish to carry out the inspection order and remove the destruction or return of the product. We've never had any problems, so I don't have a legal basis to publish anyone's name or to publish the name of this manufacturer you said. We've done 632 samples so far. And since the rtoga really in 19 samples there were more than 0.9% of the GMO content. We burned them all in the cafeterias as prescribed. We burned over 40 tons of that kind of food. About 4 tons back from the border, and we think that we have introduced a system in which a Croatian citizen can be safe from GMO content above 0.9%. And we didn't name names exactly why the days of economic destruction of the subjects I repeat by I don't know which times they're really not guilty of it. Because they were led astray by false spills of invalid confirmation when importing the contents of which they make the food. Therefore, and for the third time, I vigorously deny that I have expressed that name nor that I will bring forth any other name.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11782	Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11783	I'm not happy with the answer. Because really the information about the company I listed was made public at your press conference. However, you are, as a state official, in accordance with the law on access to information, to provide information to citizens for all cases, unless explicitly prescribed as official and state secrets. I'm asking for a written answer. But I also ask that he not be in the sense of the answers as he was given by his colleague Jurjevic. Because it did not receive the government’s reply, or the Deputy Prime Minister’s reply, but rather the press clipping, that is, the daily newspaper cut.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11784	Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11785	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Croatian Prime Ministers, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Environment, Spatial Planning and Construction Ms. Marina Matulović Dropoulos. I have recently listened to my husband and his fellow designers and constructions and, of course, the topic of conversation is the topic of illegal construction and all those builders who build in space without valid documentation. In 1992, the Law on Construction was passed, and at that time it had 74 articles. In May 1999, it experienced changes and now has 126 articles. After the fourth and the beginning of the year, he relives changes and has amazing 226 articles. In order to obtain a building permit, it is necessary to attract nothing less than 25 different documents, from copies from DPU to, for example, neighbours' opinions. For these and their reasons Vir also happened in Split where I live and in the Castles where I work. City administrations one and the other say that the helpless last measure is the demolition, I say always painful, and very painful. Build that, because 76% of the economic potential has just been built into that kuna that was spent on construction. But, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11786	Ask a question, colleagues, ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11787	Madam Minister, how to enable them to build properly and in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11788	Minister Matulović Dropoulos.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11789	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen... The fact is, we're too freaked out in all segments. [[Speech is not enabled]] It is also true that the law on construction that began to apply, or that it came into effect on the first of January of this year, is too fraught and that it is necessary to amend it. That is why we have prepared the amendment and the addition of the law. Tomorrow, at the cabinet meeting, there is also a debate on these amendments and amendments to the laws that will reduce the number of necessary documentation, which will determine that the designers are different from they have been so far, which will reduce the number of necessary consent and confirmations and that will certainly enable faster obtaining building permits. So I'm not going to talk about this law right now because we're going to have it in the parliamentary procedure very soon because tomorrow I hope the government will be prepared to refer to the Parliament. As far as the illegal construction of our ministry is concerned, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing a lot. So we don't just crash, we take a lot more action. The first thing we did was to insist on making spatial plans, and for the first time in the budget, we provided funds for those units of local self-government that can't pay for it and we already give them those funds. Then, in the proposal for this Law on the Communist Economy, which is now going into the parliamentary procedure, we prohibit the accession of illegal objects. We also suggest in the Penal Code that it be an unlawful construction of a criminal offence. But more importantly, we're strengthening the inspection and we're making it completely different, because the inspection at this point was actually solving until this hour just what was terribly acute, but it wasn't providing preventive, it wasn't doing preventive measures that it was supposed to do. So we're doing a lot of things, and I hope you get to the Parliament very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11790	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11791	Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11792	I am referring my question to the defence minister, Mr Berislav Roncevic, so I would ask that the minister hears the question so that he can answer. Just over a month ago, as defence minister, you participated in the destruction of the city's government in Požega. You were directly involved as Minister in the obstruction of the city council session. Afterwards, the government decided at the initiative of the city's HDZ, Pozeg, to appoint a commissioner who is the HDZ secretary. Without respect for the procedure, you appointed the Commissioner as illegal because he must be a non-partisan person who abuses his position in his former work and, instead of strictly specific powers under the law, replaces and places people in the city institutions, of course, those are HDZ people. My question is Mr. Minister, which is now the city's turn, do you still think you can use the government's position to bring down local authorities where HDZ is not in the majority?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11793	Defence Minister Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11794	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Dear MPs, I thank you for this question because I will take the opportunity to re-negotiate and give you some information about what happened in Požega and make it clear and loud that the Ministry of Defence, my assistants and I have not personally participated in any destruction of the City Council of the City of Požega. It is true that one of the council members of the City Council of the city of Požega, a member, i.e. an employee as a civil servant, is a member of the MORH and that he is legally entitled to participate as a councilman in the work of the City Council. However, as a state official under the Law on State Officials, he has an obligation to use his established working time for his regular work obligations, and as chairman of the Council, he could use the possibility of calling the City Council meetings outside the regular working hours of the Ministry of Defence. There were several contacts with the gentleman within the framework of regular activities, and he responded to these contacts according to his work obligation. In no contact did he warn my assistant that he had possibly called the City Council meetings. These meetings of the City Council, held during this three-month period, were normally convened at the time, in the regular working hours of the Ministry of Defence, or his administration at the head. For your information, these sessions were held at 8.3. starting at 13:00, 29.3. at 9pm, 31.3. at 13:00, 19.4. at 13:00 and 29.4. at 13:00. There was no need for quorum at any session. Just for the illustration, 19.4. According to my information, three council members responded to this session. Therefore, the city council crisis is obviously a problem somewhere else, so please choose to look for it in the right place.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11795	Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11796	Indeed, Mr. Minister, it's not your place to deal with local self-government, I think your powers as defence minister and your detour are something else rather than asking how many council members there are at some local self-government session. And the other thing, so it's incorrect what you said, because the key session I'm talking about here in which obstruction you were involved, with your signature on the invitations were called at 7:00 a.m. on the evening, as far as I know the ministry isn't working, and dear Mr. Second Day at 8:00 a.m. because you scheduled your arrival at Pozeg at 7.30 p.m. but you didn't come any of those three times that you announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11797	Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11798	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Minister of Culture, the Master of God's Bishop. We are on the verge of the tourist season, our numerous hydro-archological sites from recently near the island of Pag are even richer with one site. Given the recent history of vandalism and the alienation of hydro archaeological heritage in the Adriatic, I ask the question of what is being taken in the Ministry of Culture for its more thorough protection especially because the tourist season is approaching, and then the possibilities for such alienation are greater? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11799	Minister of Culture Bozo Biskupić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11800	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the fact is that during the tourism season, the issue with full law is being updated because last year there were just over 100,000 registered divers and they are certainly one significant item in the tourist economy. The fact that we have just over 100 archaeological sites registered, that on 30ths we approve diving, organized diving that is also charged, but also the fact that the discovery of certain new archaeological sites can allow illegal diving to devastate such a locality. So far, the locality has also kept an inspection of the Ministry of Culture, but we hope that by establishing a coast guard, but this new system, a radar system that registers, since police have marked all 107 sites, that any longer retention over an archaeological site that can be controlled by a quality radar system can be registered and sent to sea police to determine whether someone is trying to dive in unauthorized places or not. So that system-organized protection, and besides that, like this case in Novalja, where possible and where permitted, we cover archaeological sites with networks to be available to divers but that I can't devast or alienate the building.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11801	Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11802	Thank you. I'm happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11803	Honorable representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11804	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to refer my question to the Vice-President of the Croatian Government and the Minister of Health and Social Care, Mr Hebrang. You have declared a crisis at the Croatian Health Insurance Institute due to poor business results in the first three months. Because of the consumption of three eights of drugs, 888 million kuna, which is 15.6% higher than last year, you also set up a crisis center for medicines. My question is, what exactly are health debts after 4 months of this year and are they ultimately, and are new obligations that have not been recorded so far?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11805	Deputy Prime Minister, Health Minister Andrija Hebrang, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11806	Honored Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is a question that is due to the obvious news in the newspaper at the Croatian Health Insurance Institute press conference to look at the results of the first quarter of the health care business, the first quarter of this year. We have established a system of strict financial analysis, we have centralized it to obtain financial data in a timely manner and to respond in time. Unfortunately, the first quarter has shown that the trend of spending continues far above the budget. Now it's easier for me to say, yesterday you heard the words of the director of the International Monetary Fund who called health care and railways amongst them to be spent above the budget and it is up to us to meet the conditions of compliance of expenditure with revenues in the frameworks of the countries of the European Union. At this point in the first quarter, we found a new set of accounts for which there are no contracts, which are not recorded, that arrive at a charge from a variety of different directions. For example, a few days ago, an unplanned, unarranged, unrecorded, unrecorded account of 40 million kuna for utility connections came to the KBC. So 40 million kuna, that's about the amount of salaries for the entire largest Croatian health institution per month. In such difficult conditions, there has been an excess of drug consumption. I'm only going to give the information that drug consumption in this first quarter has increased by 97% compared to the last one from the supplemental insurance. All these are the results of non-transparent regulations that actually do not allow control of health expenditure at all, and we will have to change such a way of acting out, such a way of buying, such a way of ordering. I will ask several expert working groups to participate in the work, and of course also the presidents of the Croatian Parliament. If we continue to spend such dynamics as was spent in the first quarter, of course, it is the consequence of the regulations we have found, which we have changed and which will give some results in the future. If you keep spending at such a pace, then at the end of the year, so... The year had a deficit of 3 billion and 200 million kuna, which would definitely bring down all our international obligations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11807	Dear representative Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11808	Thank you very much. I'm happy with the answer, but I'm still worried about these unidentified accounts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11809	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11810	Your Honor, Mr. President. Here, my colleague Carmela asked Minister Hebrang the same question, and I wanted to ask him the same question. Dear Mr. Minister, at the beginning of your term, you were displaying yourself as the savior of the health system, except for that guidance to study the HDZ programme. Because anyone who does not act under the HDZ programme cannot be in the top health care post, as you said in an interview in the "New List". I did not notice any new contribution in the sense of saying, repairing health care in Croatia. In addition, a guideline that suggested that people deal more with the HDZ programme than with their profession. But here you are, and you've declared a real crisis since you've been on duty, you're producing less than 250 million kuna a month, and it's really the fact that at the end of the year it's supposed to be 3 billion and 200 million. What you're saying for me isn't enough to explain this and ask you how you think about solving health problems when you're reducing intensely and galloping, galloping what the citizens are most interested in, and these are health rights. It's the number of instructions, it's the number of recipes, etc. And you keep increasing your debt. So the question is how do you plan to save Croatian health care with this policy, if at all it's a rescue or perhaps drowning in relation to what has been so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11811	Deputy Prime Minister, Health Minister Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11812	Thank you very much. In your question there is approximately room for one two hours to answer, and in fact not to answer but to deny it because everything you have stated is not true. First of all, we didn't reduce the number of recipes, but we increased from 5 to 8. We haven't touched the number of instructions, nor will we touch it. Mr. Representative, I'm answering your question. So, to repeat, I deny that we've reduced the number of recipes, we've increased it from 5 to 8 per year per fuse. So, we've increased right for the sick. We didn't touch the number of recipes, we left the same 5 as we found. So, we haven't touched that either, and as far as the healthguard is concerned, I don't think I've said I'm going to be a savior, but I said I'm a man and a minister who's going to introduce financial order in health care. Which means that it will have to be done according to the laws of the Croatian State adopted by this honorable House, and in that sense we had to change not those who did not implement HDZ policy but who did not implement the Croatian government's policy. And the policy is for the Croatian government to be spent under the Budget Law and the State Budget Resolution Act. You and your government have put the entire financial system of health into the state budget and thus forced us to act according to the laws that apply to the state budget and we will stick to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11813	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11814	I'm not happy with your answer and I'm going to ask for a clearer situation about it, a written response asking normally not to be that "press clipping" as now from the papers where some articles are left out, as I recall. If some of your claims were different from those you make in that answer. I am still standing by that it is not a great contribution to the development of Croatian health care to instruct people who think to have leading functions to study the HDZ programme because you said who is not implementing the HDZ programme will not be able to be in the leading places but rather to do something else, and the fact is that you produce losses at a galloping pace. How it'll break, if they're alive, on the sick, we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11815	Dear Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11816	Your Honor, Mr. President, I have a question for the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Hebrang. On April 28th, I asked a question, and I'd like to ask a representative of the Czech Republic to move a little bit, because apparently... So, on April 28th, I asked the Prime Minister, Mr Sanader about the fate of MTC, the Međimurje tricottage from Čakovec, i.e. about the possibility that the Government should guarantee, guarantee to the MTC for commercial re-financing credit, under normal conditions and with the approval of management members to place their properties in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Until today, unfortunately, I didn't get an answer. Otherwise, I can see the answers are being sent. And also, as far as I know, the government has made no decision, although the proposal to consolidate the MTC has passed on to the government's economic co-ordination. So I ask if the government will positively resolve the fate of the MTC, the more the Međimurje tricottage Čakovec has been one of the symbols of Međimurje for 80 years, and that would shake off the social earthquake of Međimurje because there would be more than 800 people without a job. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11817	Minister of Health, Vice President Hebrang, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11818	Mr. President, the MTC's subject is in the process, it's very complex, I'll just say in a few sentences what it's all about. MTC is one of the 20 thousand companies in Croatia that have financial problems, operate inexplicably, it is a private company, it is almost 90% privately owned. It's a company that has a share capital of about 120 million, and the liabilities of about 50 million, which is a company that has not paid between 4.5 million and 5 million VAT. Therefore, according to the State Budget Act, the Croatian Government cannot grant a loan to such a private company which does not fulfil its basic legal obligation or is unable to grant it a guarantee of credit under the State Budget Implementation Act. The procedure has not yet been completed so I do not give the government a final position, the Ministry of Economy has processed the case, it is now the Ministry of Finance and we will put on the Coordination, but the frameworks I unfortunately said legally, they must be respected and we will have to stick to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11819	Dear Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11820	I am not satisfied with this answer, I hope this government will not be remembered as the undertaker of the MTC. A meeting was held this week in Čakovec, where the government was asked to respond urgently, as there was difficulty in communication, with the county tried to communicate with the government, just to point out the importance of the Međimurje Tricottage in Međimurje and for Međimurje. I therefore hope that it will not also happen I appeal that this problem will try to solve it as soon as possible, because it is also given a period of one to one. 6th to resolve the issue otherwise the MTC remains unable to use further and some communals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11821	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11822	Dear President of the Parliament, I ask the question to Minister Shuker. The tax administration issued on 7 April a solution ordering Croatia to pay VAT from the tax revenue of 73 million kuna. The decision is against the law because, under the provisions of the HRT Act, HRT has the right to revenue from tax, and according to the general tax code, taxes, customs duties, taxes and contributions, public taxes on which VAT is not paid. At the same time, the Deputy Prime Minister of Hebrang, who does not know that Ireland is not a kingdom and that there is no king or queen, calls the editor of the HTV diary and asks that the same time in the diary be made available to the correct information, i.e. It forces it to publish incorrect information and threatens to charge VAT on the tax otherwise to the government. This is about pure blackmail. The government through Minister Hebrang wants to edit the TV Dnevnik in a way that requires the publication of incorrect information, and on the other hand, you ministers through the IRS issue illegal solutions for the collection of 73 million kunas. The question is: When you will end the tax administration's illegal solution with a new solution, you will punish the head of the IRS who has issued an illegal solution and in all this in an appropriate manner inform the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11823	Minister Shucker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11824	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Representative, thank you very much for asking this question, but thank you very much for skipping 99% of the facts. And the facts go chronologically like this, so we'll see who blackmailed HRT with VAT. Therefore, on 17 October at the 25th session during the debate on the HRT Management Council's report on business on 1 January by the end of June, it draws three conclusions. The second conclusion is: "The competent authorities, the State Audit, the State Inspectorate, the competent ministries are bound to monitor the legality of work, financial operations and the exercise of the labour rights of employees in Croatian television within 60 days". Signature of Croatian Parliament President Zlatko Tomcic. So October 17, 2002. 4. 11. In 2002, the Director of the Tax Administration of Zagreb issued a warrant for inspection supervision of business. So 17. 3. In 2003, the taxpayer was given a solution, the control was completed 17. 3. In 2003. The taxpayer is 30. 12. In 2003, therefore, 37, 38 days after the election, 8 days after the new government became enthroned, it established a solution. One elemental question arises, to whom should the order for payment of VAT and other VAT duties totalling 88 million stand in the drawer for 9 months, who is who in the election campaign and how did he want to blackmail? Who issued the warrant? Does this government have anything to do with this? There isn't. However, the Tax Administration is doing its job, the Croatian Television that this solution was given to her as it should have been delivered in April 2003, had the legal opportunity to appeal, to make an objection, therefore it is not at all disputed. This government neither debated the VAT nor discussed the solution, this is a normal administrative procedure, but to Mr. Stazić if you and your colleagues will take the right to invoke, that the state authorities of the administration that are conducting certain controls for which you have, to say the least, raised your hand to carry out what kind of financial discipline we are talking about, what kind of discipline in this state we are talking about. So I ask one question for the Croatian public. Who was in the interest of being 17. 3. 2003 to 30. 12. In 2003, no written solution was presented, to whom was it in the interest that HRT employees were being blackmailed in the election campaign with this solution? The head of the Tax Administration was Mr. Milan Trbojevic and up to 23rd. 12. In 2003, at the head of the Ministry of Finance, he was my distinguished predecessor Professor Mate Church. So, Mr. Stazic, I think you've been late for at least a year and two months with the question, and I think you're referring your objections to a totally wrong address, but you've only drawn the final act of one of your little playbooks again, but unfortunately you've sent it to the wrong audience.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11825	Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11826	First of all, this isn't a game, it's a parliamentary question you haven't answered. One is the supervision of the legality of work, and one is the solution set out in April four months after you are the minister, which came to HRT with a warrant to pay VAT on tax. I asked you when you would end such an illegal solution with your solution and when you would punish the employees of the tax administration who issued the illegal solution, you did not answer this question because you obviously still want to blackmail HRT, because you obviously want to allow Minister Hebrang to continue calling the editors and to ask them to correct the correct information.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11827	And distinguished representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11828	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. I have a question for Prime Minister Sanader. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister has been reputed seven times since HDZ came to power. It's a public secret. It's a total tax of almost 15%. In the fuel price, VAT and excise duties, i.e. a special tax, are significantly participated. The rise in energy prices directly affects the rise in prices of services products, i.e. inflation growth. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, by coming to power in the election campaign, you promised citizens an increase in standards. Instead, we witness each day with compassion to nothing else. Instead of your compassion for people's problems, I think it would be good to consider the amount of taxation in the price of fuel, i.e. to finally start doing something concrete. So I ask you, when are you going to start making pre-election promises, and what are you thinking about today after 6 months of that well-known Pinocchio that unfortunately grows more and more nose every day? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11829	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11830	Thank you, Ms. Lugaric, for this matter. Before I answer, I would like to apologize in advance to the deputies that I will not be in the second part of the session, because I have a meeting with the Secretary-General of NATO, Mr... As for the price of gasoline, we all know very well that your, or previous government, is our Government Croatia, but the previous government has also made a decision on the free formation of the price of gasoline. And it's a key element in this whole story. We, when in the election campaign with that Pinocchio, have combined prices 3., because for the second time you've set it up and called yourself and you won't forget us, which we absolutely support, because that means you've been watching our campaign well and studying it. When we put that Pinocchio in and compared the price from 2000. January 3rd and the price you found, then we warned the Croatian public that on January 3, 2000, the price of gasoline was 4 kuna and something. And after your decision, or decision by our Croatian government led by the SDPs with its coalition partners to form the price freely, there has been a price rise that follows of course prices on the world market. Therefore, in the situation in which we are located, we cannot react in the way you propose, by reducing excise duties, or by increasing the price of gasoline, excise duties do not increase, they remain the same because they are at the level. Therefore, once again, the INA forms prices freely, in line with the former government's decision, and prices follow prices on the market, on the world market. And that's all I can say.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11831	Dear representative Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11832	Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm not happy with the answer, because you simply didn't answer my question. Article 5 of the Law on Special Tax on Oil Products, Prices on Motor Gas 98 2,40 Kuna, Gas 95 Unleaded Kuna 90, Diesel Fuel One Kuna, This is what you as a Croatian Government can and if you estimate there is enough courage you will do, reduce this part of the price that is in a significant share in the price itself of just over seven kunas of fuel. And Propos Pinocio, I'm very sorry that you've rebuked him, so I hope that you will continue to carry out your pre-election promises successfully.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11833	My colleagues and colleagues, considering the foundingness of the objection and the objection of the Club of Representatives of the HSP to the content of the minutes held from the session on 30 April with a phonogram from that session, found that the complaint was fully justified. At that session of 30 April, the respected representative, Pero Kovacevic, requested information on the refusal of the request to General Markac, General Cermak, on behalf of the Club of HSP, to defend himself from freedom, asked for the information, asked for information, after a break from the HSP Club requested, then State Secretary Snježana Bagic came to give the necessary information and after that the session was concluded. So you're absolutely right. With the failure of the Parliament's professional service, because I personally do not draw up the shortened minutes, you are right, and this observation, that is, this course of the important course of the session of 30 April this year, which includes your speech as a representative of the HSP Club will be included in the minutes of this session, as well as as as an explanation given by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Ms. Snježana Bagic. Therefore, I have had to verify this with regard to the minutes and in accordance with Article 246 because the remark was established, I accept it, the minutes will be subject to an appropriate amendment, it is decided without debate, so consider your observations fully adopted. Here you go, Mr. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11834	The same thing was done at point 27 regarding the report on the work of the Ombudsman, I spoke on behalf of the club, it doesn't. So these are already two interesting coincidences.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11835	Thank you very much, and I also appreciate that observation and we will enter it in the record. I ask the professional service to enter, because the minutes on the work of the Assembly contain basic data on the work of the session, participation in the debate and the decisions and results of the vote, and now it is really necessary that these things are no longer repeated and that these important things are entered into the minutes of the Assembly session. My colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to take a break by 12.15, and then we'd like to continue with the parliamentary issues. The first in line is the respected representative Bozica Šolić. 22 questions. We're continuing with parliamentary issues. It is next to the respected representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11838	Minister of Agriculture and Forestry. So where is he? [[Intruder: The speaker is not on, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11839	Ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11840	Your Honor, Mr. President, I refer the question to the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry. Mr. Minister, I am asking you on behalf of 11000 and 200 citizens living in the area of New Zagreb, more specifically in the area of the town district of Brezovica. The main problem that prevents normal development and the life of this area is the construction of water supply and disposal. As early as 1999, a highway and project documentation and other water lines and networks and other facilities were built, however, these locals have not resolved the issue to this day. The city of Zagreb ignored the part by justifying itself that the construction requires too much funds, which is absolutely unacceptable. Obviously, the City of Zagreb's headship has no ear what it has proved to be for the life problems of its citizens, so I ask you to answer me as one part of the work and your ministry is responsible when and within what time the ministry can solve this burning problem of my locals in the town district of Bezovica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11841	Minister Cobankovic, come in!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11842	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs, you tell me about this problem. I'll give you a written answer, but now let me just say a few words. There is a water supply and water management company in the City of Zagreb, which is a company that operates the public water supply and public water supply. As far as I know about the Croatian Water Plan, the water and water supply company concerned did not require co-financing of part of the costs for the project. For these reasons, I think it is primarily necessary to ask water supply and draining d.o.o. Zagreb to include it in its plan and to implement this plan requires certain co-financing funds from Croatian waters, but we will give you a more detailed answer in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11843	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. This time we've already done it several times and over the past few years, but it hasn't passed. Thank you for your response and please give a detailed answer in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11844	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11845	Mr. President, I was going to ask my question to Mr. Minister of Science, Education and Sports, but I am taking the opportunity to ask Mr. Secretary of State Janjic this question for a simple reason because he is from the County and I believe that he will simply give me the answer to this question. Over 100 students from the south-east part of Vukovar-Srijem County go to school daily in Brcko District. That I believe you know very well. The reason for going to school in Brcko District is primarily the price of transportation that students should pay for going to the nearest secondary centres located in Županja and Vinkovci. For example, the price of the ticket from Županje to Gunja comes to 350 kuna and to Vinkovaca is 600 kuna. During such a schooling course, problems also arise for parents who cannot obtain a certificate of schooling and lose the right to a child’s allowance. Afterwards, children learn from non-Croatian programmes, so they learn what they really shouldn't and what will cause problems for them in enrolment in higher school education. We build schools and educate staff and allow children to go to school in other countries so I ask if the ministry intends to help these parents and the municipality of Gunja to in some way prevent this exodus, i.e. That schooling in another country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11846	State Secretary Janjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11847	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor! We are very familiar with this problem at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. It is 63 students attending the Brcko District in this school year 2003/2004. This ministry is now launching a first-class competition in high school, and I have already made it very clear in a radio show what about those students who finish school in Brcko District is waiting for. I would briefly just warn as I did there that it was actually programs in the Brcko District that were compressed up to 50%. The captain in the cases was reduced by 1/4 and those students when they finished schooling there to say IV. degree if they want to continue education in the Republic of Croatia at one of the higher schools they will indeed be in a difficult position because their knowledge will not suit the level of knowledge acquired in our schools. Furthermore, there will be some problems with the deadlines because they are subject to nostrification and the process still persists in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. We, as a ministry, are obliged to warn both students and parents, and we did so on that occasion. The same thing was written in the press that talked about it. This time I asked the principals at the secondary schools in County and Vinkovci when they went to primary schools and when they had meetings with the parents and students of the eighth graders to warn them of that fact. On the other hand, I spoke with the head of the municipality of Gunja and asked if there were any opportunities for them to subsidize the transport of students because it was motivated but not only by students from Gunja but from Rajje village, Đurić and Racinovac. Furthermore, at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, we will find a way to take a part of it on ourselves, that is to subsidize their transport to make it more favourable and to put them in a better position when continuing schooling than the one they will now have when they graduate from high school in Brcko District. So,...... I don't know how pleased they will be, but we really did everything we had to do to warn both students and their parents about what it means, to decide on high schooling to the Brcko District and how objectively these students will have worse starting positions if they want to continue their education here. [[Intruder: My colleagues and colleagues, so please, please, peace in the assembly, you can't hear.]] Respecting everything else you've warned about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11848	Dear Representative Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11849	I know what problems parents will deal with, what problems these students will face. I'm interested, if the municipality... I want to know if the state will co-finance the transport of those students. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11850	Honorable representative Nikola Ivanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11851	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The question is for the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Health and it is about the amendments and amendments to the Regulation amending the rules on prescription of medicinal products adopted on 29 March and published on 5 April in issue 43. People's news. This Regulation amends only one article, Article 9 and that amendment prevents the issuing of prescriptions in primary health care when the medicinal product is prescribed by the examination, i.e. the finding of a specialist in a private office not agreed with the HZZ. This change discriminates and violates the human rights of two groups of citizens, patients who are insured with HZZ most often and with basic and supplementary insurance, as well as specialists who work in offices that do not have a contract with HZZ. After the publication of this amendment, polemics and publicity were reported by HZZ Director Dr. Bergman with inaccuracy, imprecisely both ultimately and falsely. He responds to the New List of May 6th that this amendment to the Regulation could in no way affect the position of specialist doctors who do not have a contract with the Institute and continue to clarify, namely medicines recommended by unnecessarily recommended specialists until now, the selected primary healthcare doctors could not prescribe. There were other things he was going to do, but for a short time, that's all. It's not true what he's saying, and that's what the media put forward as an argument. Namely, the Amendments Regulation introduces the concept, introduces the concept of a specialist and the concept of a contract health institution which does not exist in the previous amendments to the Regulation of September 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11852	Please ask your colleague a question. Your time is running out.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11853	Neither from 2002 in the original rulebook because there are all specialists treated equally. The question is what makes your ministry and government to correct the wrong done and the problem done because there is considerable damage to the patients as well as damage and professional disabling and the business material damage of a specialist doctor in private offices? That's what I'm asking because there's a series of lawsuits in preparation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11854	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister. Deputy Prime Minister Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11855	Dear Mr. President, Mr. MP, this issue has actually been resolved in recent negotiations, agreements and talks with representatives of the Croatian Medical Chamber. Namely, dr. Bergman is really right, only a contracted doctor can write a prescription on a health insurance burden and the contracted doctor is a primary health care doctor. There was a question whose advice he should take. Since we have decided to introduce control and those who give the recommendation and who prescribe the background of the prescription, a contract number, a contract specialist, must be placed so that they know who gave the recommendation. How we didn't have a number for the unnecessarily, then we didn't get them into it. However, when the problem was shown and it was discovered, then we agreed in negotiations with them to give them the right to sign the license number of the Croatian Medical Chamber in the background and banning the doctor so that we can keep them in the register. I think they're even with that in their rights to the others... and that will probably be accepted on our proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11856	Honorable representative Ivanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11857	Thank you very much. This problem has indeed been solved in a way that is appropriate and has caused a month of unnecessary confusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11858	Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11859	My question was to Minister Hebrang. Comrade Hebrang, first of all, I'd like to join your expectation that the hand of justice will arrive and Radiir Cacic, as you said last night in Quorum. However, I must disappoint you, on the basis of my documents, it is two documents that Minister Shucker and the Prime Minister delivered to the State's attorney, I have spoken on several occasions with the state's attorney, and instead of focusing on two concrete documents now being sent there by a major audit, time is being bought, Stanko Kovac is in a position to destroy documents and even I don't want to deliver any more documents from the PDS. However, my question is about the growing interest in health problems of fellow Hebrang, you know the situation as you have found it, it is difficult. However, some information I buy in public for me as a health economist seems confusing. Indeed not at this level the opposition authorities, however, confuses me with the introduction of a crisis station in the HZZ, because it is in some way a predestination for the introduction of some kind of state of emergency. Another confusing thing that is expected for me is the announcement of a relatively large loss by the end of the year of 3 billion and 150 million kuna and two contradictory measures you announced. The first is the introduction of rights to patients over the age of 45 who have not been on systematic examinations for three years. You know that growth in diagnostic potential has two adverse consequences. The first is that treatment services cannot be provided to people and up to consumption growth. [[Intruder: Comrade Letica, please ask a question, time is running out.]] So my question is very simple. Do you personally and the Ministry of Health intend to refer to a more serious document on the state of health of the nation and the state of health so that we can discuss this seriously?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11860	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11861	Thank you, Mr. President. There are three pies, so I'll answer that in that order, first of all, to this last one. We should definitely open up a wide parliamentary debate, I said it several times, but before that we need to establish a good analytical service because we have no health status anywhere recorded, but today we still buy for all 160 and more institutions of 3,000 contract doctors, etc. Why did I declare the state of emergency at the Croatian Health Insurance Institute? For the same reason I got a first quarter analysis ending on December 31st for a month and a half late. That kind of analysis doesn't satisfy me because these months and a half of irregularities were still happening because we didn't know about them. So I want a real-time analysis from the institute, which means analysis at the moment when something's going on. I allow a 24 hour delay no more. The new director has done a lot to organise such a way of analysis, however, it is very difficult because the computer system at all for us, the information has been completely cut off, co-operation with the district offices almost does not exist. Between the district offices and health institutions there is no communication at all, so on these contracts that have been signed these days, we have introduced a whole series of new specifics that will link it. Now, in this sense, the crisis situation, because if the HZZ isn't reorganized so that it's spotlessly giving us analysis, then we won't even be able to react in time. As for patients and free preventive checks on each insurance company older than 45 years, if it is not 3 years of age, the account is the following. First of all, a human reason to detect a disease that has no symptoms in time. Economic reasons, if the disease is detected earlier, its treatment will be both more effective and cheaper. So what we want with this program in advance is to discover diabetes because sugar doesn't give symptoms. We want to detect high pressure because high pressure doesn't give you any symptoms. We want to detect certain inflammatory, tumor diseases and so on. Our piece of benefit analysis has shown that with 17 million kunas this year we can also do this human task and achieve and, and financial savings due to early diagnostics.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11862	Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11863	I'm 78% satisfied with the answer. So I expect the Ministry to appear in front of the Parliament within about 90 days. We're going to help them on a volunteer basis, and as far as screening is concerned, I don't agree with your point of view because if you can't provide a therapeutic counterweight, then you're frustrating patients even more than you've diagnosed them. We agree on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11864	Dear Representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11865	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to ask Mr. Branko Vukelic, Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. As we all know recently, the Croatian Small Economy Agency has been established, which is the main activity of promoting the development of small economy entities. I am interested in when this agency will begin to implement all the programmes for which it is set up and when the director of the agency will be elected because I think it is necessary for the normal functioning of the agency to choose a leading man who will take responsibility for the successful implementation of the programme. I also wonder if there will be a change in the very important business of this agency, which is to provide guarantees to entrepreneurs who have good programs but lack of credit? So far, we have had the opportunity to see in the last term of government that loans and government guarantees could only have been obtained by similar ones that were known not to be returned by Victor Lenac or those whose credit rating was such that the loans were not really necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11866	Minister Vukelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11867	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Drmic. Agency... It's been there since last year. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact is, she had a temporary director back then. At its meeting, the government appointed an administrative board of the Agency and will be appointed as head of the Agency in the coming days. What is through two basic programmes to encourage entrepreneurship that the government has brought to its sessions, which is the programme, I will remind you of building and encouraging the construction of entrepreneurship zones and the programme to promote and develop small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. The basic programmes therefore established both the tasks and the role of the Agency... and its role is provided for in two basic directions. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is exactly what you mentioned, guarantees for those entrepreneurs, guarantees and guarantees for those entrepreneurs who do not have enough of their property so that they can have guarantees when raising a business loan and in the other direction this Agency is designed and envisaged to form a network of consultants so that those people who will follow the beginner's entrepreneurs when developing an embodies for its entrepreneurial venture, but not only during the construction of the elaborates but also during at least the first two years of work of that entrepreneur. So these are two basic tasks of this agency that will very quickly function in terms of the first man, but I have to say she is working and there are and doing her jobs, and the competitions are in progress through all those 42 projects that are contained in, in the programme of fostering small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. In these projects, these 42 projects include these two I was just talking about, which is responsible for implementing the “Hamag” Agency. It's a guarantee project and a network of consultants project. Therefore, this Agency will primarily carry out these tasks which will be clearly defined by, and criteria and tenders to be carried out on the basis of these projects, and there will be no similarities but precisely an evaluation of the designs and evaluations of the possibilities of entrepreneurs or the inability to provide credit with their guarantees. In this case, it will jump right in “Hamag” as an agency that exists for that purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11868	Dear Representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11869	Here I would say that I am relatively satisfied with the answer and I hope it will all be as the minister spoke but these problems are mostly met in this, in Slavonia where I come from where real estate prices are not as valuable as in Zagreb so it is much harder to get guarantees from banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11870	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11871	Dear Mr. President, since Minister Roncevic is not here because he is with our guest who comes at 3:00, I would like to ask a written answer to the question. It is known that the employees of the Ministry, or how we defend it, as we like to say by the military, leave numerous facilities among which objects of great historical value such as the Kerestinec Castle. It is necessary and means an urgent solution because abandoned objects, monuments of culture are rapidly collapsing. Question, what is the Ministry of Defence planning to do with abandoned facilities, and especially with the Kerestinec Castle, which along with the entire surrounding area in the spatial plan of the Municipality of Saint Sunday is located in the recreational zone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11872	Thank you very much. The minister will deliver a written reply as requested. Honorable representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11873	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the question should have been addressed to the prime minister. Since he is not here, I assume the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Hebrang or Minister of Economy Vukelic will be able to respond to him. The Remont Shipyard Sibenik once Perjanica, service and refurbishing, today unfortunately a company in bankruptcy in which 220 workers have not received their salary for 4 months. The remont shipyard is a specialized company for the repair and service of all types of military, police and other ships, as well as the service of all types of weapons, and raises the question whether the Croatian government will use the potential of the remont shipyard and the exceptional, unique quality and expertise of the workers and consolidate the company. I proposed and proposed a year ago exactly on a private public partnership model, precisely in that model that is most acceptable for these companies that do not have the most accurate or best market perspective precisely because the Croatian state or Croatian government is just interested in, together with the potential of private entrepreneurship, having just consolidated this company which can not only be successful but also be needed by the state. And this would avoid the devastating possibility that the Croatian army of the Ministry of the Interior and Coast Guard service all its vessels either, anywhere else I don't think we need to serve our ships and our army and our Navy anywhere but Croatia. And since we have that potential in Sibenik, I think we can do it. In the end, I think it is this particular interest and support of the state and public sector and a strong boost of the private sector that will enable the operational centre of the future coast guard, and I believe that we all agree and place it in Sibenik. My question is: will the Government of the Republic of Croatia take these consolidation measures and allow the private public partnership model to consolidate the company, and strengthen the significant interest and state but also all employees who encourage this model and will also give the coast guard or operational centre their place in Sibenik, which I consider to be quite reasonable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11874	Minitar Vukelić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11875	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you for asking the parliamentary representative. Because it is clear and certain that both the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship and this Government and how they appreciate and know the role and importance of the shipyard in Sibenik. When it comes to public private partnership, I remind you 24. .../ The speaker has disfellowshipped himself/...if an interest arises for such a partnership when it comes to the restructured shipyard, it is certain that this ministry will also consider and the government will discuss this proposal and I believe that this is possible to restructure or consolidate this important company. I can inform you that next week there will be a meeting at the level of defence ministries, lordships, and finance on the subject of the remont shipyard. Because what you said is certain that the needs and our armies for such a company are more visible and that the government is looking for a way and that they will look for a way and model to consolidate that company so that it can clearly and normally operate. We also know the significance it has for Sibenik and that area down there. And on the other hand, that we have our company company here, which is precisely in the function of those needs that our Ministry of Defense or our army has. So here's the meeting next week. And if there is an interest of private private investors in a public private partnership, a tender will be opened for anyone interested to offer their model and way of such cooperation. I'm sure they'll take a good look at it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11876	Mr. Markov, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11877	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I think that in this case, the government must take the first step and give an initiative for all those interested in entering the private public partnership initiative first and foremost. Because only the Croatian Army has the potential that if all its needs and there are no places to guide them, but in a remounted shipyard to a remounted shipyard, then the cold drive can be maintained on its own. Therefore, at this point, the state has a crucial role to play has a commitment and is able to only through the service of its own needs, which exists on one side of preparedness and the possibility of solving this problem. And by making a stronger call to private investors, I think this problem can be solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11878	Honorable representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11879	Mr. President, a question for Mr. Mlinaric, the minister of police. It is known that the past four years' power has driven more than 3,000 officers from work as a politically inappropriate person. And that over the past four years has been left without a job more than 300 cadets of members of the Police Academy of the Ministry of the Interior School. It is also not unknown that the past rule with Minister Lucino organised a requalification of politically similar personnel is a little less about 300. Where people were requalified to police titles led solely by the political similarities of students and requalification. As a representative, I face the firing officers every day, hundreds of them who meet the conditions and ask, what will new authorities do about their return to work. As a representative, I am facing and meeting cadets of academics who are the graduates of the police academy who are asking the Ministry of the Interior to hire them. Since they meet the requirements of police service. They express their disagreement, which the past government has initiated a requalification of politically similar personnel, promising them jobs. The question is what will happen to these thousands of fired officers, who have the conditions to behave as police officers and who want to return to the interior ministry. And what will happen to these few hundred completed police academics, which this country has trained to conduct police calls. Are these men at the expense of these overqualified SDP personnel going to be out of work even during this government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11880	Minister Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11881	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, your colleagues and your fellow MPs. Yes, this is a very difficult question to answer equally. Almost every day, I and my assistants have been swept away by letters from fired police officers who want to return who, by age and professional preparation, are still able to work at the Ministry of the Interior. To do their police work. Most of the time they've been in the Homeland War, and now they're justifiably calling and asking why they can't go back to work. It is also true that we have about 300 young people who have completed the police academy and who have been looking for a job for two or three years. And what's now the paradox of this last one, certainly here is the decision to initiate a requalification procedure for the occupation of a police officer. 277, which last year are high school students who are retired this year, and in this contest, point 5 of the programme, which successfully completes the requalification programme, will establish a working relationship with the Ministry as a trainee with the obligation to remain in the service for 4 years at the workplace according to the ministry's needs. Unfortunately, the interior ministry still has about 50 police officers to over 100,000 residents according to European standards. We have about 450 police officers, and it takes 400. Of course, we're under a lot of pressure right now, and these guys end up this year, and those who end up being fired. We can do one thing or two. And that's to take each of these groups of unemployed, fired ones and these overqualified ones 100 for example so that would be about 300 because 600 comes out of the natural drain. It means retirement every year from our system. This would gradually reduce the number in the ministry and yet 300 people could be admitted this year, 300 next and so on. It's tragic that these people are put into such high pressure by those who are unemployed. And there's no other way to go than over the next few years until the shadows are hired by all those who have had conditions, we don't enroll new candidates in the citizen police academy. We're just doing the education of those people who are already in the system. That's our plan, and I'm saying I'm going to have to appeal to these young people and to those who deserve to have patience because we can't take them all at the same time because that would break through the financial opportunities of the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11882	Representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11883	Well, I can't be satisfied with the Minister, because you're just thinking in a compromise way. You can't provide jobs for those who got a job in the political likeness of the SDP and who enabled them to requalify from the tokar, locksmiths to police officers, while thousands of people were hit by police stations from the Ministry of the Interior just because they weren't politically similar to the SDP. I suggest that SDP set up a security company and employ these personnel in its security company in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11884	Honorable representative of Tonino Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11885	Mr. President, I wanted to ask the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader, but as he is gone, I would like to refer him to the foreign ministry representative, Mr. Secretary of State. Namely, the Brijuni Conference on Strengthening Trust between the countries established in the SFRY area last week did not close the speculation that Croatia will postpone the application of the parliamentary decision to declare a protected Adriatic fishing belt in October this year. In fact, foreign media and some political sources do not hide that Croatia is expected to give up completely or at least a further decision to postpone the declaration. This promotes the idea of a joint use of the Adriatic mainly Croatian aquarium between Italy, Slovenia and Croatia as the only acceptable option not only for Slovenia but for the European Union. I'm asking a question. Will the government insist on the October term for the declaration of a protected ecological fishing band as decisively as the Croatian Democratic Community has uncompromisingly insisted on declaring only and exclusively an economic belt on the Adriatic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11886	State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Bakota. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11887	Mr. President, the ministry will send a written statement and an answer to this question, but this time I would like to stress that European criteria are priority on this issue and we will certainly continue to negotiate and talk with our partners and our neighbours in the framework of European moderations that address these issues. More detailed answers will be given in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11888	Honorable representative of Tonino Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11889	Mr. President, of course, I will be able to say whether I am satisfied with the answer only when I see it in writing, but I would like to take the opportunity to say that the recent statement by the Czech Prime Minister, Mr. Špidle, although denied, will have raised a strong doubt that a number of members of the European Union, as small and old, will attempt to present their national interests exclusively as an interest of the European Union. In doing so, they do not have to open their own dilemmas about regional problems or about the Republic of Croatia itself. It seems to me that this is a very sensitive time to the European Council on which we expect candidate status for Croatia and it would be very good to recognize this time as a time of pressure in which more serious concessions will be required from Zagreb before formal membership negotiations begin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11890	Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11891	Mr. President, I'd like to apologize. This is about my question being quite complex and quite broad and, with the effort of any member of the government, I could not get the right answer and I decided to send the initiative on this issue, and it concerns water supply and disposal and related to certain financial obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11892	Dear Representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11893	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, esteemed members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I'm asking a question probably to Mr. Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, and so can someone else if he doesn't. In general, the assessment of the situation in agriculture in the Republic of Croatia is freely stated that there is no agricultural production of its own if, under agricultural production, production is intended for the market, which is the only or most significant source of income of the producer, and in the national economy, total production mainly meets the needs of the internal market. It's one finding that usually revolves all the time in economic circles. Let me explain it a little bit. Today, the value of food sold in retail is slightly above 16 billion kuna, and the value of imports is expressed in dollars 1.3 million, i.e. nearly 10 billion kuna or nearly two-thirds of food turnover is based on import products. All this would be nice and good, but the facts tell us that this government doesn't stop or better to say does not limit imports than further encourages it. Namely, the announcement of free imports of beef from virtually all European Union countries means liberalisation even greater than is now or better the restrictions we had for BSEA are now particularly worrying us. It concerns the reason why 25% of imports in this quarter are higher and the fact that there could be an enormous increase in domestic production imports would be a loss of national income directly destroying domestic production. So I ask whether the Government or the Resort Ministry is aware of the responsibility of its actions means opening up further for the European Union imports to a potential threat to human health to potential economic damage in the economy or ultimately, which the possible countermeasures are being prepared in the resolution ministry and in the Government do not result in such possible disturbances.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11894	Minister Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11895	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I will immediately answer that we are aware of the complete situation we are facing in agriculture. We are aware of the situation and we know the numbers and imports, but also exports, and it is an accurate finding in which you say that there has been a significant increase in this year, in fact imports for the first three months, but it is also a fact that, unfortunately, Croatia has entered this year with significantly less products from the part of primary agricultural production for the simple reasons that we had last year what we had. And to make this argument, I'm just going to tell you a few details. In the past year, the foreign trade or better said stock exchange in cereals for the first three months was positive for $13 million, $13 million, $258 thousand. In this year, just for example, wheat for the first three months, we have a negative balance of six million 380 thousand dollars. So only on this one example can you see the difference between cca 19 million dollars. Similarly, take the parallel as an example of sugar. What's the point? The point is that in the past year there was a significantly lower production of sugar tails as basic raw materials for sugar production and further for sugar exports. Example: In the first three months, the sugar balance was almost $16 million. This year she's two million and 196,000 dollars. With the problems we have, in dissatisfaction with the part of the demand in fruit production, vegetables and the like, and with these examples of consequences that are the direct consequences of reduced production of basic agricultural products that were practically our export products where we had a significantly more positive external trade balance, and now we see what is happening, then it is normal and impossible to expect that imports will be reduced during this year. Normally, this ministry, by its measures and by its certain activities that I have talked about today and I will not repeat them, goes in the first order, increasing production and stimulating those productions with which we do not meet the needs. We will also carry out a thorough balance on our needs during this year, and on this basis we will continue to lead, through support policy and incentives, towards resolving that part. Now, let me go back to the specific question. The fact is that, since the imposition of measures prohibiting imports from the European Union, there has been no reduction in imports of live cattle or meat from the countries of the European Union. It's just that the supplier's changed. It did not come from EU countries but from some other countries. Next, there are experts in Croatia who are in charge of monitoring certain activities and proposing certain measures to the ministry. Within the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, there is an expert advice for BSC monitoring. On the basis of some proposals from that expert body, which had its session on Friday, the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and the water economy will also give certain orders. And I don't think there's any need for us to open up some political fronts, but just to look at the facts, you have to respect the position of the profession, and I'm standing absolutely standing, and I'm going to make it my public commitment...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11896	Minister, please conclude the closing sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11897	...and I'll make my own public, my commitment publicly. I stand on the view that no artificial, administrative or any other measures can be protected, so-called ‘protection of imports of agricultural and food products’.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11898	Dear Representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11899	Well, obviously, here, in this last sentence, we need to imagine ourselves taking agrarian policy and even a policy on health, the public and the people. Because the multiple occurrence of BSE in these countries is certainly to be imagined because the predecessor in front of me has already said what kind of food is being imported, and this is now under the password, certainly, possibly possibly possible contagion or I don't know what the consequences and that we allow it. Instead of raising our levels, we're dropping the level. I wonder how far the public can tolerate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11900	Dear Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11901	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I have to express my astonishment and my colleagues at the club with a response from the foreign ministry. Dear Sir, European criteria do not even need to be a reason for Croatia not to implement its laws. The economic belt is part of the United Nations mechanism. I, not the European Union mechanism. Therefore, the negotiations are only possible on fishing quotas and bilaterally, Croatia and the European Union, and no delays are taken into account, as referred to in Article 10. The Venice Declaration, from last year, is an acceptable precedent. But my question actually refers to "Sun-Hvar" and I refer it to the Minister of Economy. According to European Union documents, the purpose of a public-private partnership is private investment in state property. In the existing Privatisation Act, there is the possibility of recapitalisation to acquire management rights through 51% of shares, but this would mean currently paying off 160 million kuna in "Suncan Hvar" because the underlying capital of "Sun-Hvar" is 317 million kuna. You can go to the stock market, but buying 51% of stock at the current price would mean paying at least 95 million kuna at the moment. However, according to Questus, who accepted the government, Questus should invest 40 million kunas of his money and another 185 million kuna over 5 years, mostly through loans on the burden of Sunny Hvar. And counting, of course, on the profits at the end of that process. I note, and this is what HSP first warned, that there are still no legal preconditions for the implementation of a public-private partnership or for calling a public tender on it. So my question is brief and clear. When will the public-private partnership be regulated by a special law, and what conditions will the Government place in its public tender for a public-private partnership regarding the obligation and investment of a private partner in "Suncani Hvar"? So, which investment should be made by bringing in capital, not loans to the burden of Sunny Hvar? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11902	Minister Vukelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11903	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, I must immediately correct you once again when you say the government has accepted the offer. Thus, the government did not accept or make any decision to accept any offer. Following a meeting of the Government of 24 April and a public invitation to all investors interested in the public-private partnership model, interested companies, funds, such as in the case of Sunny Hvar and at its session of 5 May, the government has put in charge, therefore, of supporting this reporting by interested investors and has entrusted the ministry, together with the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Ministry of Mr Kalmet, to prepare acts so that we can go further in this direction. Last session of the Government also reminded you of the decision, which is based on Article 3(2) on the exemption from the sale of shares of the company "Sunčani Hvar" from the state portfolio and is obliged to open a tender for the development and privatisation of "Sun-private Hvar" according to the model of public-private partnership, which will therefore define models or conditions, the criteria on which the most favourable bidder will be selected in this contest. So it's very important and different from what you said, that an offer has been accepted and that you go to contract with a selected bidder. So, after the expressed interest in a public-private partnership when it comes to "Sun-Hvar" is now going into a concrete tender for which conditions will be defined by the Croatian Privatisation Fund and call the competition that can be answered by all. Not only those who have shown interest in the first invitation to tender and will therefore see what is and on the basis of a concrete offer in this competition, will see what capital is invested by that investor offering a public-private partnership, in which he sees this, this partnership and the future. Therefore, I do not think in this case it is a matter of any chosen offer or of anything that is beyond those legal possibilities provided by the current Law, when it is said that the Government can exempt from selling some stock and make a special decision on the fate of those shares.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11904	Dear Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11905	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, the government, you say, has given its support. The public interpreted it as accepting an offer. As regards the tender and the public-private partnership, I am responsible for saying that there is no standstill in the existing legislation. The European countries have special laws on this, there is a specific European Union document on public-private partnership, and we expect a special law to be adopted on this. [[/Intruder: That's right.]] To keep everything clear and clear, or maybe we'll have to write it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11906	Honorable representative Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11907	Mr. President, respected members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Secretary of State Mr. Bačić. I'm curious about the project of building the fast road of Saint Helena-Vrbovec, Bjelovar-Virovica with the separation of Gradec-Koprivnica. First of all, I'm interested in what happens with the continuation of the construction of Vrbovac-Gradac stock, so the bypass around Vrbovac, which is when the project is planned to complete the construction of the section of that road in the whole length.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11908	State Secretary Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11909	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. The fast road towards Bjelovar and the Vrbovac bypass is planned to build Croatian roads, in the plan of building the roads of Croatian roads. In this sense, when we talk about the Vrbovac bypass, project documentation has been built and on the basis of this project documentation it is a building permit. As regards the process of entering the building permit, land is being awarded at that location and according to the Croatian Roads in the Ministry of the Sea, Transport, Tourism and Development, we expect that the opening of competitions and the outcome of the building permit could be resolved by the end of September, so that in the beginning of October this year, a bypass around Vrbovac could be built in 2000.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11910	Mr. Representative Sesvetan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11911	Thank you very much. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11912	Dear Representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11913	Thank you, Mr. President, I would like to refer my question to Mr. Culture Minister, Master of God Bishop. The Law amending and supplementing the laws on the protection and preservation of cultural goods of 10. Nine. In 2003 it was found that the monumental rent is paid by natural and legal persons who carry out their business activity for a business space located in the immovable cultural good or in the area of cultural historical integrity, the height is prescribed by their decision of the unit of local self-government i.e. cities and municipalities. As I come from the town of Sisak, which is a large cultural and historical unit, I ask you whether the cities have made decisions on the heights of the monumental rent and whether we know that income from the monumental rent is paid into 60% in favour of the city or the municipality, and 40% in favour of the state budget and must be used primarily to protect the preservation of cultural goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11914	Minister of Culture Bozo Bishop.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11915	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. Unfortunately, many cities have not yet begun law enforcement and have begun charging the monumental rent. We are concerned that in the task of the Ministry of Culture, which is one of the very important tasks, we have asked the citizens to answer us and in 50 cities the municipalities, of which only 18 started with the law, among these cities of course Zagreb, Trogir, Pula, Karlovac, Gradiška, Varazdin, Požega, Opatija and Rijeka but many other cities, and there are 12 other cities that are under way to implement this Act. However, the three cities that are even on the list, UNESCO's list that has and preserves the most significant monuments of culture, are Split, Sibenik and Poreč, so we don't think they've started law enforcement yet, and I'd like to invite city heads and mayors from this booth to start applying the law, one city even answered us if it wasn't in their law enforcement plan, from northern Croatia. This means if this House has passed one law and we all have a duty to apply it, so I ask that city heads and cities that have not yet begun this serious business, which is like the MP and said 60% remains for the restoration of monuments in the city itself and the municipality itself 40% is the part of solidarity for those who do not have monumental units. I would ask that all these chieftains... start charging the monumental rent as soon as possible, because it's a very important and very important contribution to the restoration of cultural monuments, many of which, if we don't go seriously, we're going to have to hire archaeologists to find out where they were actually in general and were.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11916	Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11917	Thank you, Mr. Minister, I'm pleased.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11918	Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11919	Dear gentlemen, I would like to ask Minister Vukelic. Namely, it concerns INE and some other oil suppliers. Namely, INA but not only INA, but also OMV and these other Eurosuper suppliers, Eurodiesela, deliver for a new type of vehicle harmful fuel, deliver more precisely fuel with extremely large amounts of sulphur, so it is possible to expect that nearly tens of thousands of vehicles will have to be cut off from the engine. In 1999, Croatia adopted a standard on the quality of fuel that clearly deviates from Western European standards all in order to benefit from INI because Western European standards recommend significantly less amounts of sulphur recommended clearly by car manufacturers, one word of our fuel departs at this time for a whole decade after the quality of what we can buy today in Western European gas stations. For example, new cars do not suffer Eurosuper 95 with more than 50 mg/kg of sulfur, and there is no such fuel on any gas station in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, the question is, what does the state intend to do? What the National Inspectorate intends to do, because one of the reasons for privatising INE among other things was to modernise our refineries. Citizens through the price of fuel pay VAT, pay that famous excise charge to the state or pay a fee and then have the right to demand that so often new types of cars do not break down.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11920	Minister Vukelic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11921	Thank you very much, Mr. President, honourable parliamentary representatives, Your Honor, first of all, if the current fuel at the gas stations sold does not fit our current regulations technically I think then the State Inspectorate should work and I believe that it does and should be prevented from selling fuel in accordance with our existing regulations. But your question is focused in the right direction when it comes to the type of fuel that we have even produced in our refineries, from our company INE, and the fact is that according to European standards, that fuel does not satisfy and that is why the commitment of both the Croatian government as the majority owner of the INI and the strategic partner MOL is going to modernise our refineries by introducing technologies, technological processes that will meet European standards when it comes to the amount of sulphur in fuel. At the next cabinet session, among other things, there will be one requirement to approve the debt and withdraw credit precisely for modernising our refineries, because in that area, and you have done very little so far, only some small investment was directed at the river refinery a few years ago, but the basic business is coming and it is one of the strategic investments in INA, just investing in the modernisation of refineries, because otherwise it will be impossible to use that fuel as of next year, given the need to comply with European Union standards. So, in the plans in INA's programs, it's modernization of our refineries.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11922	Dear Representative Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11923	Yeah, if it is, if we're supposed to be in charge now, we shouldn't have sold it to the INA a year or two ago. However, the problem of the unclean, more precisely, fuel with this excessive amount of sulfur escalated several years ago, when even Renault did not want to deliver his vehicles to autosalonica in Croatia. The other problem is that if citizens do not prove that the malfunction occurred because of that and that fuel at some pump, they clearly need to pay for the repair themselves. And thirdly, the question arises, who will be the happiness of 150 to 200 thousand owners of new cars that the next day will simply appear before what is said to the repairers. What's the problem? The problem is that fuel meets our regulations. It's not a question. However, this does not meet the recommendations of the car industry. And here we have a serious problem, because the cars are really broken. And in what time will that happen? That's where we're asking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11924	Dear representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11925	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, State Secretary. I wanted to ask the question of the Minister of the Sea, Tourism and Transport and Development, and as the Minister of Business is absent, I will ask the Secretary of State, Mr Bacic. In the half-yearly report on the course of the loan of the European Investment Bank from Luxembourg, the Commission concluded with 31. 12. In 2003, as well as the way the credit funds were spent, submitted to the Croatian Assembly by the Croatian Roads under point 3. b2. there are shares whose project documentation is under way, there is also a share of there Županja-Gunja. In fact, the opening of the international border crossing of Gunja, which is also the transition of the first group, this road has become significantly more frequent, thus also more burdensome. So, let's say, last year, there were 478 thousand passenger cars, 41 thousand cargo vehicles, 728 cars and almost 2 million individuals. Mr. Secretary, is the project documentation finished and are these respected I am particularly interested in, are the respected objections from the Department of Roads of Vukovar-Srijem County, especially those to create a tour of the town of Gunja? It's about a mile long. Namely, the village of Gunja is one of the largest in the county, has about 5,000 inhabitants, and the road passes by the school itself, where large columns and cargo and other vehicles are created waiting for the border crossing, thus jeopardising the safety of children. And please consider this inquiry and comment and find a satisfactory solution. And if this is all done, when can we expect work to begin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11926	Secretary of State Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11927	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Representative. Part of the road Županja-Posavski Podgaci-Gunja is in the 28km section in the programme of reconstruction of the state road. and, for this road, this programme is based on the European Investment Bank loan. According to state roads maintenance programmes, a project has been developed and the project of the road itself has been completed, so Županja-Posavski Podgaci and Gunja and is planned to complete the project through the construction permit and the bank's consent to the programme itself, and for this the call for competitions early next year the road would be completed. However, as the programme itself is based on a judge of profitability, the project itself does not provide for the Gunja bypass. The position of the Croatian Roads and we have discussed in the Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, that it is necessary through the programme of reconstruction and reconstruction of the state roads, which Croatian roads are currently making, to include them in the justified reasons that you yourself have stated about truck transport through Gunj itself, about the burden of the border crossing, that indeed there are shares in the length of 2.8 or 3 kilometres of the road reconstruction programme. So, the road itself which is 28 kilometers from Županje to Gunja goes into reconstruction. ...the value of the works, planned...the value of the works is projected according to British prices at 41 million kuna and the position of Croatian roads, clearly that at the outset of the building permit that is under way on the basis of the project documentation is being opened and we expect the start of the works early next year. This is the program of the Croatian Roads. And for the detour itself, to repeat that it will be included in the programme of reconstruction of state roads, because justified reasons and truck transport, passenger transport and passenger transport are indeed justified to move into the construction of the Gunja bypass itself, whose length is about 3 kilometers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11928	Representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11929	Thank you. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11930	Dear representative Nevenka Medenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11931	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer the question to the vice-presidents of the government and the minister of the family, the defenders and the intergenerational solidarity of Mrs Jadranki Kosor. Dear Madam Minister, a well-known position and policy of the government in order to improve the position of Croatian defenders of the protection of their rights and safeguard their dignity. Given their invaluable contribution to the establishment and preservation of independent and independent Croatia, they deserve the right to participate actively in the economic life of the Republic of Croatia and to ensure financial security for them and their family members. One of the main conditions for this is their employment. My question is this. What will the government take, in addition to the measures already taken to hire Croatian defenders, that is, to take some new measures, to reduce the still relatively high number of unemployed Croatian defenders? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11932	Vice-President of the Government, Minister of the Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11933	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. I fully agree with all of your findings that have naturally preceded this issue. Unfortunately, we still record more than 27 thousand unemployed Croatian defenders among the unemployed. and the ministry has taken some steps, of course within all measures of the Croatian government, and we believe that some of these measures will produce results very quickly. Recently, two ministries, headed by me and the ministry headed by Mr. Vukelic, signed an important agreement on crediting small and medium-sized enterprises. But here's when you asked about all the measures, I'd like to remind you of some of the existing ones, but also some of the ones that we're going with for the first time. These are therefore professional training measures for a well-known employer, self-employment, professional training for an unknown employer. However, what we hold particularly important is this lending of small and medium-sized enterprises, as the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity will subsidise the interest rate up to 2% on loans to beginner entrepreneurs or those who develop the already existing activity. Credits with a table of interest subsidies can be used for persons, so from the target group as we call them, so for Croatian defenders or children of Croatian defenders, also for other natural and legal persons who hire or will employ more Croatian defenders. Here is an agreement on the extent to which the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity foresees to single out 11 million kunas a decade ago we signed an agreement and here in all associations of Croatian defenders, or members of their families, in all PSP centres in Croatia and elsewhere, such prospectuses can be found where all details can be found, or any detailed instructions on how to use this subsidized loan can be found. However, we also have another measure, which is to encourage the establishment of Croatian defenders' cooperatives, which is to encourage cooperatives based on some good experiences so far. Here, the other day we also signed an agreement, a contract with a cooperative that exists in Samobor that works very successfully. That's where we come in with half a million kunas. Therefore, there should be found all instructions for all those who wish to go to this entrepreneurship which according to the first results in the same give good results. And we have another new measure, it's support for individual projects. This is in some way the pilot measures in this year if she gives good results then we will certainly extend that measure for the following year, of course for the next financial year. This support for individual projects in our positions is represented by 2 million and 300,000 kuna. Thank you very much for asking because I believe that many Croatian defenders are interested in how and how they can be involved in all these measures. I'm afraid that's not known enough in public yet. That's why I thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11934	Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11935	I thank you, Minister for your comprehensive response, and I'm sure our defenders are pleased with the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11936	Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11937	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs! The subject of my question, which I refer to the Minister of Justice, Ms. Vesni Skare-Ozbolt, and the subject of unpunished war crimes committed against Croats in Vukovar in the fall of 1991. Croatian returnees to Vukovar want to know after 13 years what happened to punishing war crimes committed in 1991 in Serbia's aggression against the city. It is known that Vukovar counts about 3,000 victims of the Homeland War, it is known for the executions in Ovcara, for tortures and large traffic killings, for taking Vukovar to concentration camps in Serbia but is not known where the criminals are. The Vukovar Troika Radic, Mrksic and Sljivancanin sit in The Hague and Vukovari believe that as commanders of the attack on Vukovar his destruction and killing people will receive the fine but they did not themselves kill 3,000 people. The question arises what happened to the perpetrators, those who bled their hands, killed 260 Croats on the Ovcara. The trial for Ovcara in Belgrade, as far as it could be seen, is similar to fars because none of the six indictees or 20 witnesses reportedly have any idea of Ovcara. The crime was committed against the Croats and 13 years after the war were still unpunished and the guilty are free to walk in Serbia, and we know there are also in Vukovar. Croatians from Vukovar rightly expect the perpetrators of these terrible 1991 crimes to be punished so that life in this town can continue to a lesser extent with this unresolved issue to which neither the co-existence of Croats and Serbs can go in the right direction. The question is, when will the sanctioning of criminals who committed crimes in Vukovar in 1991, currently located in Serbia-Montenegro and those who walk freely along the streets of the city of Vukovar? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11938	Justice Minister Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11939	Dear Mr. MP, when it comes to sanctioning war crimes committed against Croats in Vukovar according to data from the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and from 1991 to 11 March 2004, a criminal case for war crimes against 489 persons was initiated. The investigation is now under way against 88 people. A total of 179 people have been charged and 127 people are being prosecuted before the County Court in Vukovar, so these are cases that have not yet been reached by a judicial verdict. A total of 40 people have been convicted for war crimes committed in the Vukovar area, and 32 people have been convicted of acquittals. The Ovcara war crimes trial in Belgrade began and there was an extension of the indictment with 11 others, so all together 18 people are on the indictee's bench at a trial in Belgrade. I have no intention of giving you any qualifications about that trial. We're waiting for a verdict. It is important for you to know that the County State Attorney's Office in Vukovar, following a complete investigation, has brought charges against 10 people for the massacre in Vukovar and against the generals of the Yugoslav People's Army, and that is Veljko Kadijević, Blago Adjic, Zvonko Jurjevic, Bozidar Stevanović, Lives Panic and these Mrksic, Radic and Sljivancan, as you yourself have said, and Vojislav Seselj and Goran Hadzic, and these proceedings are pending before the County Court in Vukovar and also the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia has requested their processing at The Hague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11940	Representative Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11941	Thank you, Madam Minister. I'm partially satisfied, and since you've recently taken office, I hope you'll take out all those items that we campers gave to the police in 1992, and hopefully, I'll be even more pleased when all the sanctioned criminals who are still walking through Vukovar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11942	And last in line, the Honorable Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11943	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, fellow MPs! I would like to ask my question to the defence minister, the family and the intergenerational solidarity of Mrs Jadranki Kosor. Every day receiving citizens among them is actually the largest number of Croatian defenders who address me and one of the most common questions is that they will be with debt, in fact with a commitment made to Croatian defenders and who has been dragging around for a number of years, whether there are certain, whether information can be obtained if there could be a payment, actually paying back that debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11944	Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11945	Thank you very much. Mr. President! Mr. Representative, that's a good question, at this very time. Namely, as I believe you as representatives and most of the other MPs certainly call you, they send letters to many Croatian defenders and members of their families, so of course many letters come to our ministry, and of course it is incorrect that what comes from certain circles when they try to comment on the work of this ministry, so some of which are sitting here in the Croatian Parliament dare to say that the minister is not responding to a single letter, I am just doing one detailed analysis, what I know from the analysis so far, from what has been done in certain parts of the ministry, and I am working additionally for my work in the government. It's been answered by over 3,000 letters. The fact that the inflow of letters is great, that the pressure of the people seeking answers is great. It's what you're asking. It's about one debt, and it's from 97, according to the law of that time. And I can say that so far, it means in a period of one. 1. In 1998, to date, she only made payments to those defenders related to their pensions that sued the state, the ministry of the court. Of course, judgments were made in their favor and only those payments were made. The Croatian government agreed at the beginning of its term of office when it was working on a budget held with through the government's senior representatives with representatives of the associations, and for this financial year, the Croatian government secured 149 million kuna. So, to repay that debt. The processing of the documentation has also started in the field services of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and can announce that the first payments start these days, therefore, in June for what has been processed so far. I have information that about 2,000 items have been processed and the rest of more than 7,000 items will be processed during June and then payments will be made after that, therefore, July and August. So, the answer specifically to your question that first payments move these days, so, in June and then during July and August. I believe you're satisfied because it's about the government's promise to keep.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11946	Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11947	So I am, of course, pleased and grateful for this response and I believe that I can thank you on behalf of all Croatian defenders for the next support they will receive.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11948	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 189 of the Treaty on the I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure that the Government has not delivered an answer within the prescribed time limit to Mr Slavko Linic's parliamentary question, and I would like to ask that this response be delivered within 8 days, the other answers have been delivered, some of them have been distributed today. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the current morning is over. Just a few more notices. The session of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, which was scheduled to be held today at 13.30 p.m., will be postponed for tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. at the Club of Representatives. The session of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities will be held today at 14:00 in Hall 202. And a session of the Committee on Gender Equality also today starting at 14 o'clock in hall 233 on the second floor. I would ask respected colleagues and colleagues to be at least five to three in the assembly because at 3:00 we have a program to address the NATO Secretary General. Gentlemen representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen ambassadors, honored guests. Please kindly welcome our guest-in-chief today, Mr. Jappa de Hoop Scheffer, Secretary-General of NATO SAVEZ. Mr. Secretary-General, let me welcome you here in the Croatian Parliament of the highest representative and supreme body of the Republic of Croatia it is our great pleasure and honor to address today the Croatian Assembly of Representatives and Representatives. [[Applause]] And this is exactly the moment for us when we expect with a high dose of optimism that the Croatian efforts taken in the area of reform will be recognised at the upcoming Istanbul summit of NATO. The Republic of Croatia welcomes NATO's latest expansion because we believe that any further expansion of the alliance means a continuation of the unity of the entire European space, not only in the defence but also in the economic and social sense, and especially in the same fundamental democratic values and objectives as we do not support the implications and higher degree of security of the continent as a whole. That is why we sincerely hope that the Istanbul summit will determine the continuation of NATO's open-door policy. We believe that by including the Republic of Croatia in the alliance, it would take a significant step towards creating a safer region of Southeast Europe, which is in the Croatian vital national interest. Croatia is already making a significant contribution to the greater security and stability of this part of Europe by its political, economic and social stability and full readiness to further develop and strengthen good neighbourly cooperation. We have recently marked the first anniversary of the US Adriatic Charter and we strongly support the efforts of neighbours Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia in Montenegro to join the Partnership for Peace programme, and in this process we are prepared to participate more actively through providing practical advice and exchange of experiences. Ensuring membership in the European Union and NATO in us is two equally important external political goals. The European Commission's positive opinion has confirmed its ability to do so. The determination and consistency of the Republic of Croatia on the road towards full membership of the European Union. Our dedicated work on meeting all NATO membership criteria as well as the positive assessments we have received so far on our progress certainly serve as a strong incentive to speed up reforms so that we are fully prepared to assume all obligations of full NATO membership in the next round of enlargement. Your Excellency, please take your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11953	/Applause./ [[The speaker speaks English, no translation]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11954	Mr. Secretary-General, thank you for your open, honest, critical and fair display of the North Atlantic Union's policy on the chances, for Croatia's ability to join NATO through this open door as soon as possible. Thanks again. We'll continue in 15 minutes. My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. Since we do not have the necessary quorum to discuss and report on the mandate-immunity commission, we will continue with this when the quorum is needed and we will go to this confirmation of the contract. - Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary on the publication of border traffic control in road, rail water transport with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 100. The Proposer is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. Does Secretary of State Bisljevic want to further hold the proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11956	the conclusion and execution of inter-state contracts gave incentives and the signing of this contract. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] The contract was signed on 29 September 2003. In an explanation, it may be necessary to say that the current way of controlling border traffic in road, rail and water transport between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary was to take place without the existence of an appropriate interstate contract that would fully regulate border control at all border crossings. A contract whose confirmation is proposed in front of the high home of this law fully regulates the principles and rules of cooperation during the exercise of border traffic control, persons and things and means of transport crossing the Croatian-Hungarian state border, in particular when border control is carried out in a common place. The Treaty also provides for the establishment of a mixed commission to implement the contract, and the contract shall, together with the Implementing Protocol signed at the same time and where the contract is comprehensively addressing the issue of determining the border crossings and the border control regime between the two countries. Furthermore, the implementation of this Act will not require additional resources under the State Protocol, the basis for the adoption of the Emergency Act, is set out in Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and, in justifiable reasons, that the urgent implementation of the contract, from the point of view of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs may be just another observation, by arrangements for the border crossing regime between Croatia and Hungary, we are addressing one important issue in our bilateral relations, we are promoting overall relations with Hungary and in a stable manner, given that it is a Member State of the European Union that further strengthens its international and pro-European profile in this case, and I ask you to adopt the law by an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11957	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, no, no. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, Honorable Representative Pero Kovacevic, please. Is there anyone else to discuss? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary on the control of border traffic in road, rail and water transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 100. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'd like a representative of the motionary, Secretary of State at Mr. Bakot's Foreign Ministry to show about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11959	The government accepts the amendment. It is a nomotechnical change and a provision is better and more detailed as to which ministries are responsible for implementing the contract in such a way as to achieve the possibility of any changes, changes or addition of the Ministry's name being precisely defined who is in charge of the implementation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11960	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 95 votes, the proposed law has been passed along with an amendment that is an integral part of the law. We're going to the next point. - Proposal for a law confirming the Framework Loan Treaty for Project 1435 (2002) sustainable return of exiles and refugees - return of property and housing, between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 101. The proposer of the law is the Government. We accepted the emergency procedure, you received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance, the State budget, the work of social policy and health care. You received the reports at the session. Does the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs. Martina Dalic, want to further explain the proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11962	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The objective of the project financed by this loan is to address the problem of the remaining part of the housing of exiles and refugees through the return of property to owners and the provision of alternative solutions for temporary users. The project includes the following activities: Return of property to owners, total return to owners of 3968 housing units who will leave temporary users who have determined the right to temporary disposal, then provide additional housing fund for the disposal of temporary users of occupied assets as described in point 1. The purchase of family houses through the state-owned real estate agency, which will be leased to users and the purchase of basic building materials for the restoration of damaged family houses or apartments owned or owned by users. The reasons why the adoption of this emergency law is proposed are the nature of the confirmation of international contracts and between countries which formally express their willingness to carry out obligations under already signed international contracts and the other reason for the urgent adoption of the Law is the fact that changes or additions to the text of international contracts cannot normally be carried out at this stage of the procedure. So I ask that this law be passed by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11963	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, honourable representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11964	Thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP Club strongly supports the adoption of this Act confirming the framework contract for the sustainable return of exiles and refugees, the return of property and housing between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe's development bank. This proposal for a bill or a continuation of the project is nothing but a continuation of the project but a successful completion of the former government. Of course not under these circumstances. We are also pleased that the current government has changed its mind and is heartily supporting the return of refugees, which is of political interest and of the social first kind. This Law will regulate not only the return of property to the owners but the provision of an additional housing fund for the temporary care of temporary users, occupied property, and let us remember in the 1990s, those years when special commissions were established to which this property was, were called special assets, in this way possessed. Let's just remember during the former assembly called on the right-hand side of your Mr. President, from the HDZ bench, that the courts may suspend even the eviction proceedings. Now it's said differently and well that, then, the loan will ensure the purchase of family houses via the State Real estate agency. It has never achieved its fullness which is why it has been established and should be supported, however, it seems somewhat exaggerated to me that in villages and in towns predominantly inhabited by Serbian... or those in which they lived, that these places are covered by the posters of the State Agency for Realty Transport, it is unacceptable because it can be understood that this particular population is encouraged to sell real estate that should never happen or create the impression that this is the case. The loan will also ensure the purchase of a basic construction matrix for the restoration of damaged houses. And we're glad to see that today, too, that's certainly what the former authorities are doing. We are pleased to see you continue this project. However, sometimes not so long ago, just a few years ago from the benevolent breasts and lungs on the right side of your Mr. President of the HDZ bench, it was said that only when it came to amending the Law on Reconstruction, when Mr. Minister Cacic at the time was accused that even though such a person could behave as a minister when he said and mentioned when he entered Knin at 8 o'clock, the houses did not burn, at 12 o'clock the gorillas were. Today, that's why he was asked to resign. It was said that when this law was also discussed which domestic resources needed to be well resolved, we will not be able to even the family. Well, that law was said, and only by law was it required that all citizens under equal conditions were spoken of, so the law goes beyond the tolerance of the national pride violated. It was said from the HDZ bench. It has been said that Croatians, or Croatian voters, then voted for the changes, and that you can see what kind of fraud and changes are involved. Well, gentlemen, isn't that a little too much? Not only does it apply to all citizens, the law says, but also to those who imagine had a residence in 91. And we're glad that you've changed your mind now and that's exactly what you support. It was said that in law, the right to rebuild is shortened to persons against whom only powerful verdicts have been passed, but this does not apply to members of their family, so is that possible? This law is inhuman, it's spoken. Well, the blood hasn't gathered yet, and you're talking about it. This law is inhuman. You can give me a warning, but I'm afraid of this law. I'm not going to quote who was saying it, that's what they all said, so those who are now proposing and supporting, and we're really glad that's the way it is. It is not necessary to hesitate and say that these are coming out, those Serbs who have escaped for whatever reason, you then government, because you are referring to the then government of Serbia's 90s policy, which is why the then government was accused when it only asked that all citizens be restored to their home and their buildings destroyed on equal terms. It can be the current government... by happening to the people, but I'm afraid such qualifications show a lack of understanding of people who have felt war on their skin, who have lost a family member, that's what they said so little more cautiously. So it was also said that the speaker would be the one who criticized that law was the last ugliness when he raised his hand for such a law. The law is absolutely unacceptable, it shows first that the current government, thought of..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11965	I'd like to ask my colleague not to be distracted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11966	...as much to use every opportunity in every law and article to alter all definitions of the Homeland War. What are we? Are we even a state when we make such laws? That's what they said then. And we're really glad that you've changed your mind, and I hope it's really honest, because if it wasn't for the truth, we wouldn't be getting into a really big loan like this, because a lot of houses have been torn down and a lot of things need to be restored. Let's just think of the people who raised their voice not to tear down the house, let's just remember the late Cardinal Kuharic, who spoke the enemy has knocked down my house, I will not take his. But many who put the rosary around their necks destroyed the house and did not listen to the words of the Cardinal. Then, our Prime Minister Sanader recently said that he believed that our people had safe and must have the courage to trust, and quoted the Pope and his recent visit. However, the pope has come here several times, and he has always talked about it, but he is probably only heard so much if we are in power, or are in power, or is in power. And that's why Mr. President, let me finish, the SDP Club supports the adoption of this bill, and it delights and delights this turn, which is certainly due to the former government in your thinking of such a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11967	Thank you very much, otherwise this was, otherwise the draft law between the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11968	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed secretary and the esteemed assistant minister, the esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the council. Projects 1435 2002 sustainable return of exiles and refugees, return of property and housing, aimed at ensuring conditions for the sustainable return of exiles and refugees through a solution to the return of property to their owners as well as the allocation of alternative accommodation to temporary users and property has been prepared by the former Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction and the former Government of the Republic of Croatia since October 2002. It was addressed to the Council of Europe and to the CEB for consideration. The project was proposed and adopted by the highest bodies of the Council of Europe and CEB in March 2003. The Republic of Croatia has already concluded 7 long-term favourable loans. Well, maybe we should remember. A project to restore schools in the Republic of Croatia through the financing of a 90 million kuna loan from CEB signed on 19 and 26 January 2001. The loan funds finance the reconstruction of 40 schools in war-torn return areas in 8 counties. With condition 31. 12. In 2003 87 million kunas or 88.8% were used, and by the end of 2004, the other 11 million were expected to be spent. Another project also led by the Ministry of Public Works is the project of reconstruction and housing of exiles and refugees in the Republic of Croatia. It was financed by a CEB loan of 232 million kuna signed in February 2001. Loans and appropriations shall finance the resolution of the problem of housing of exiles and refugees through the return of property to owners and the provision of alternative accommodation for temporary users, the organised restoration of damaged and destroyed family homes owned by returnees, and the restoration of municipal infrastructure shall also benefit from the rest. With condition 31. 12. In 2003 to meet you, these funds were completely used. The next project, which was also managed in a way co-ordinated by the previous government, is a project to restore health infrastructure, financed by the loan of CEB, which was signed in October 2001 by loans to budget funds, is financed by construction works or the acquisition of equipment for four hospitals in Pakrac, Dubrovnik, Sisak and Zadar. Two clinical centres in Dubrovnik and Split, two clinics Fran Mihaljevic and Vuk Vrhovec and one clinical hospital center in Rijeka. Four primary healthcare facilities in Metković, Slunj, Knin and Dubrovnik, as well as the acquisition of medical and other equipment for primary healthcare centres that were previously built from state budget funds. With the condition of 31.12.2003, 60% were used and the remaining unused part of the loan is 74 million kuna. It's just some of the projects. There are others there as a project to rebuild schools in eastern Slavonia, projects to finance a small and medium-sized entrepreneurship credit programme. Here, the loan of CEB in Croatia is financed to the Bank for Reconstruction of Development and is granted with a state guarantee. The total value of the project is 20m euros, of which the loan of CEBA is funded with 8m euros or 40% of the amount and the rest of the 12m euros is financed from the European Bank's loan for reconstruction and development. The guarantee contract came into force on 19 September 2001 and 4m euros were withdrawn by 31.12.2003. The so far agreed loans and guarantees totalling 789 million kuna and 8 million euros in total. Recognizing exactly the need for parallel strong reconstruction and investment in technical infrastructure with the process of reconstruction and improvement is also co-operation with the Council of Europe. The next new loans are in preparation. The project to build and rebuild school facilities in the Republic of Croatia, which has been directed to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe since 22 May 2003 and to the Governor and Director of the Central Bank for consideration on the possibility of financing it through loans of 53m euros. I especially stress that we at the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction have prepared and have already started building a total of 142 schools and sports halls. Of the 100 schools and 40 sports halls, the construction of 40 facilities and various phases of activities such as design, competition and audit has been advanced so far, including around 120 facilities for reasons, since the project needs to be completed by the end of next year. The example works only in Zadar County is the realization of 28 facilities under this programme, which certainly contributed further to the results and rise of the HDZ right in parliamentary elections, given their mainly leading unit of local self-government in Zadar County. This is exactly how far the government has gone and, of course, the Croatian People's Party has managed the general interest rather than the narrow party. Here, however, we have to ask the competent question that the entire 142 school and school hall package has only ruled out the construction and credit financing of the High School with a sports hall in Sesveda and does this not clearly indicate speculation about how the Government Programme of the POS is in Zagreb, where out of 18 thousand interested families to resolve their existential housing issue, 8.5 thousand families see in the recent construction of a secular settlement of 3,000 dwellings. All projects and for high school are fully completed, with the competition selected performers. Only gentlemen are expected your efforts to realize them. This, however, is an eclative example of the treatment against the interests of Croatian citizens exclusively with the aim of preventing the implementation of projects initiated by other parties. The remaining projects designed and financed by this model are a project of social and economic reconstruction in war-related areas and socially undeveloped areas. Loan to improve living conditions in Roma settlements, loan for environmental protection, fire protection, loan for the development of social infrastructure and reintegration of return to the multiethnic community of the town of Gline. Noting that the additional contracts have been concluded for every withdrawal of money I must mention for every loan, of course to commend here three groups. The aim of this project is to address the problem of the remaining part of housing, meaning what is not covered by previous programmes through the return of property to owners and the provision of alternative accommodation for temporary users, through the restoration of the municipal infrastructure in the war affected areas, and how it follows the return of property to the owners of 3 thousand 968 occupied housing units, the provision of an additional housing fund for temporary users of occupied private property which is established the right to housing in total amount of 3 thousand 968 residential units, the purchase of family houses through the State Agency for Real estate transport. That's where a thousand 960 housing units are planned. Purchase of basic building material for the restoration of damaged family houses or housing owned or owned by the user. That's where we have the two thousand eight figures in total. For the award of users and construction there are 328 damaged housing units left and a thousand 680 pieces of building land are also provided. Housebuilding support, for self-building, we have co-financing of construction works to rebuild and build a total of 2,000 and 8 housing units, we have utility connections and a accompanying infrastructure for 2,000 430 housing units worth 36 million kuna. And we have various consulting services designed to design, monitor and audit. Of course, what should be mentioned on this occasion is that the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the PGS is fully and fully alluded to the school, we support the proposed proposal confirming the framework loan agreement for the design of a thousand 435 from 2002 sustainable return of exiles and refugees, return of property, housing between the Republic of Croatia and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11969	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Honorable Representative Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11970	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! I, of course, think that this law and what it wants to resolve is a good thing, simply because it wants to do something that has noble purposes, and it would not in any way question and I think it's quite right and deserves support. I'm going to trouble two things here that I think are going through the law and I don't think they're noble. Maybe if I could use something more firm, it's possible to get past the law, not to say contrary to the law. I comment or problem two things. First of all, here the whole structure is based on number 3 thousand 968 which means so many busy houses, so much needs to be provided alternative accommodation and in different forms as just before the colleague spoke will be found out and spend the money. The other thing that's being potent here, which I think is just as important in terms of terms. The material says this will create conditions for a sustainable return of the same number. Now look, what I think is, it's problematic. First, knowing the situation on the ground, if this number includes those people who are now temporary users, then that means that they automatically meet the requirement of all these people. I know personally, and I believe that there are data on it, the question now is whether we have them, and whether or not we're going to work on it to get to them. It is questionable whether 3600 and how much a person writes here, indeed has the right to alternative accommodation or so on. housing because according to the criteria it may not belong to them. I'm not in charge of investigating this right now, but I repeat I know from practice that it's possible to happen, I know from practice, and what we have right now is dealing with a busy asset without a legal basis, it's done sometimes, or if I can say enough and in a way that takes care of those people who don't have legal grounds to take care of it. I'm not going into good faith, I'm not going into a good gesture, but this is about too much money to pay attention to, too. Now what we're saying here below is that we're doing what we're doing. sustainable development. I think all the money will be spent both technically and contentally on buying houses, accommodation of some people, and that money for what would be functionally sustainable development will be neither for these nor for those. Not for temporary users or owners returning home. I don't want to go any further, I just thought it would be good to warn about something that deserves better analysis and a better analytical base. I'm in favour of taking a loan for this purpose, but I'm in favour of that, I think it would be absolutely necessary to continue when it's necessary to see how these funds are actually going to be used by model. Let's see the facts, let's see what's in the law, and then on the basis of the fact that the law is applied, and let's decide to comply with that formula. And then we'll seem to have some money for what's written here for what sustainable development says here. And I'll say one more thing. 60% of the money in this, mentioned and defined in this model, is for APN, which means for buying houses. And it's necessary to solve these problems. But you have APN now has quite a fund of houses available that no one will enter. I'm afraid we'll spend the money in some way by the model so-called. Missed investments. I'm going back to this again, and there's going to be what sustainable development says here, and I think that's at least as significant as this first in this number 3900 etc. So, okay with this loan, okay with the collection of money to solve problems, but it won't be right if solving the problem practically goes the way it says here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11971	Thank you very much. We're done discussing clubs. Dear Representative Radimir Cacic, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11972	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken so many times about the subject that we have in front of us today that there is really no reason to talk about it in particular anymore. But still, I'd like to remind you once again that the HDZ Club is because of the Reconstruction Act, which is why we're mostly taking these funds here today, asking for my resignation. That people are respected, the most respected members of this House and then publicly claim that if they vote for the law, and today, of course, they're proposing the law by which all of this will be financed, that all of them, that they can also say who these people are but read the stenogram, it'll be a shame if I say, that everyone who suggested then this law that we're going to finance now, are declared traitors, servants of foreign interests, not Italian, not Italian, even possibly Italian, and they were in that story. And of course you can never accept, in accordance with your conscience, any possibility that with the citizens of Serbian nationality and these funds go 95% to that end in order to be absolutely clear, that equal treatment is equal to the citizens of Croatian, Croatian nationality. A terrible change has happened in this country and I am proud that it has happened, thank you gentlemen for having managed to understand that this Europe and this world has some other civilizational standards and some other legal norms than you had until yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11973	I'm closing the debate. And before that, as the secretary of state wishes to be shown that he does not have to come to the vote on the amendments, here you go, Mrs. Dalic. That's all you wanted to talk about, isn't it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11974	Thank you very much. There are two amendments to the text of the final draft of the law, and this amendment to the Committee on Legislatives, which supports the adoption of this Law, does not object to the proposal of the Proposer to adopt the law by an urgent procedure and proposes the following amendments: Article 2 and 3 suggest that changes be made to the words...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11975	Just say Mrs. Dalic, you're just showing yourself whether you accept or do not accept these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11976	The government accepts the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11977	Okay, thank you very much. Final proposal of the Law confirming the Framework Loan Treaty for Project 1435, 2002, a sustainable return of exiles and refugees, return of property and housing between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 101. The debate is closed. The amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee were accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that the proposed law has been unanimously passed as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11980	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, The Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 6th session held on 25 May 2004 the written request of Jakša Marasovic from 4 May 2004, which informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that the Government of the Republic of Croatia had resolved him by way of a decision on 29 April 2004 and thus ceased the reasons for his representative's term of office, and due to the incompatibility of the Croatian Waters Director with the delegation's duties. The commission found that Mr. Jakša Marasovic, elected on the Croatian People's Party's List in the 10th Election Unit, began on 22 December 2003 and that his deputy Mr. Branko Vojnovic, 27 January 2004, began acting as a representative in the Croatian Parliament. How Mr. Jaksa Marasovic is in line with Article 13. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament filed a written request to the president of the Croatian Parliament within the legal deadline of the Commission found that the conditions laid down by law were met, so the rest of the parliamentary term of the representative, Jakša Marasovic, ceased on the eighth day of the application, and the same day ended his deputy, Branko Vojnović, on the same day. In line with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament to take a decision to suspend the term of office of representative Jakša Marasovic and to suspend his representative Branko Vojnovic's term of office, which determines that on 12 May 2004, the resignation of MP Jakša Marasovic stopped, and that the deputy representative, Mr Branko Vojnovic, stopped acting on 12 May 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11981	Thank you very much. You have read the full report on all three, only Jaksu Marasovic. Then you read for a long time, and I listened to something on the side. Here, then we'll sort it out first. I'm opening a debate on the report. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that unanimously with 91 votes, the proposed decision has been made. ... Let's move on. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11982	The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 6th session held on 25 May 2004 a written request for the rest of the parliamentary term, which is in accordance with Article 14. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, the president of the Croatian Parliament was submitted by Darko Shantic, a representative at the Croatian Parliament by act of 20 May 2004. As Mr Shantic was elected representative as candidate on the list of the Croatian People's Party and the Primorje-Gorski Alliance in the 7th Election Unit Croatian People's Party and the Primorje-Gorski Alliance are in accordance with Article 12(1). The law ordered that Mr Nikola Vuljanic, as deputy representative in that election unit, begin acting as a representative instead of representative Darko Shantic. The commission found that the law lays down the conditions for the start of the stay of Darko Shantic's parliamentary mandate and the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy, Nikola Vuljanic,'s office. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously established the proposal to the Croatian Parliament for a decision to hold the parliamentary mandate and to initiate the conduct of the parliamentary office of the deputy representative, which states on 24 May 2004, that the term of office of Representative Darko Shantic has begun to rest, and that the agent's duty is in accordance with Article 9, paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 26 May 2004 began acting as Deputy Representative Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11983	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the report. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Decision in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Abstained? I find it unanimous with 94 votes for the proposed decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11984	Finally, at the 6th session held on 25 May 2004, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the notice of the Croatian Democratic Community from 25 May 2004, which informed the Commission that Dr. Dujomir Marasovic in accordance with Article 9. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament due to the incompatibility of the conduct of the new duty it has been appointed to has begun the rest of the parliamentary term and that his deputy, Marijan Bekavac, will act instead. As Mr Marasovic was elected representative as candidate on the Croatian Democratic Union list in the 10th Election Unit, the Croatian Democratic Community is in accordance with Article 12(1). The law decreed that Mr. Marijan Bekavac, as deputy representative in that election unit, would start acting as a representative instead of Dr. Dujomir Marasovic's representative. The commission found that the conditions for the start of Dr Dujomir Marasovic's term of office were met by law, as well as the conditions for the start of his deputy, Marijan Bekovac,'s post office. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of a decision on the stay of the parliamentary mandate and the start of the conduct of the parliamentary office of the deputy representative to determine that on 12 May 2004, the rest of Dr Dujomir Marasovic's representative's term of office began to rest and that the parliamentary duty was in accordance with Article 9(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 26 May 2004 began acting as Deputy Representative Marijan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11985	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the report. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Decision in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in favour of the motion of this decision? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find it unanimous with 97 votes for the proposed decision. Now we'll move on to making an oath of counsel. ... In accordance with Article 7. Lawmakers Nikola Vuljanic, Marijan Bekavac and Jaksa Marasovic will make an oath. [[Applause]] The oath is given in a way that the President of the House reads the text of the oath, and then the representative after being called up and saying: “I swear”. I will now read this text of the oath: I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia. I'd like a representative of Nikola Vuljanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11986	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11987	Thank you. I'd like a representative of the Marian Bekwarts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11988	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11989	Thank you. I'd like a representative of Jakshu Marasovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11990	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11991	Thank you. Congratulations to all MPs, on their sworn oath, I wish them success in performing an honorable and responsible duty. The next item is - Final proposal for a law on the confirmation of a guarantee contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a highway completion project in Corridor X in the Republic of Croatia, the emergency procedure first and second reading of P.Z. No. 95, the Proposer of the Law is the Government. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail. It is very difficult to outstretch the representative Kramaric with his voice. I have to make extra efforts to master the microphone for your microphone. Please. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites first and Ruago's reading of the law. The amendments can be done by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Lawmaking, Finance and the State Budget, Maritime Transport and Connections. Reports were received at the session. I ask the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Ms. Martin Dalic, to further explain the proposal and Vice President of the House to Mr. Luka Bebić to take over the presidency.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11993	Thank you very much. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has shown an interest in financing together with the European Investment Bank the completion of the highway on the corridor x The construction of the last section of the Zagreb Lipovac highway from Županje to Lipvoc. Which consists of two subdivisions of Županja Spačva and Spačva Lipovac. The entire financial structure for construction here includes the investment of Hatca 12m euros, RBDA 45m euros, on which evoj law, Eiba 45m euros. The changes to this loan were completed on 12 and 11 last year with a repayment deadline of 18 years, three years of withdrawal and 15 years of payment. The funds behind that loan were planned in the financial plan of the Croatian highways, the emergency procedure will allow this loan to be withdrawn in accordance with the planned one. The planned deadline for completion of works is the end of 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11994	Thank you very much. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Caucus Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11995	Dear Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the parent board of maritime transport, the Committee on Maritime Promotion and Liaison at the 5th session held on 24 May 2004 discussed the proposal for a law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Committee considered the proposal for a law on the confirmation of the contract in accordance with the provisions of Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee accepted the proposal from the proposer to adopt the law following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening statement was given by the president of the promoter, who stressed that it was a confirmation of the guarantee contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Eurospka Bank for the project of completion of the highway corridor x in the Republic of Croatia with favourable conditions. The terms are listed here and are truly extremely favourable. After the debate, the issue of financing and approval by the Government was also raised by the government of building the second half of the Rijeka Zagreb highway and was asked to raise the issue in parallel with this decision. Given that 53 million euros are secured and this is the moment when intercal interest is paid and the government's solution is awaited. It is a highway to Stara Sušica viaduct in the length of 16 and a half km, which would make Zagreb a 101 km full of highway profiles. The committee did not vote in favour of the majority 4-4 and thus we have an opinion of 4 members of the board, Radiir Cačić Slavko Linić, Anton Peruška, and Sima Lučina. After the discussion was held, the Committee on Transport, Maritime Affairs and Connections unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to pass a law on the confirmation of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a project to complete the motorway on the x corridor in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11996	I thank the president of the Committee. I'm opening a debate. First of all, the clubs, on behalf of the club HSPa Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11997	Mr. Vice-President, the Honored Representatives of the Government, it is indisputable that the Croatian party is supporting the construction of the highway, including this section regarding the border towards Serbia and Montenegro, because we can also force Slovenia to finally implement its part towards Croatia and we know that this issue has been standing for a long time. But before I say anything else, I can tell you that I don't know how many of you have read these materials, and this law. We were in HSP surprised by some sort of three things. The first thing is that we heard that today the finance minister spoke a lot and criticised the former government as well as how they worked. And he's one of the representatives of the government he doesn't have. And then we have in the reasons for the adoption of laws by emergency procedure always that classic, says, with regard to the nature of the process of confirming international contracts, which the state and formally expresss its willingness to be bound by already signed international contracts as well as the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, it is generally impossible to amend and supplement the text of the international contract that means that we vote without essentially disputing and entering the metrics. And I think there's really room in this contract to get into the metrics. The first thing is that he has it on you. 37, paragraph 6. 2. Legal opinions. and says for the purpose of paragraph 2 under the 3rd standard conditions legal opinion or opinion, on behalf of the borrower is provided by the lawyer company Hanžeković Radakevic. Great dust won't work for free. We thought as a club HSPa we would suggest that we give free of charge, not to pay one foster home, because she won't give it away bad. But that's not all. How else do I do it and when a contract is concluded then the component of the contract is two things that are equally important. Veli, services of consultants to assist the Croatian highway D.e.o. in the construction of supervision, mediation, monitoring of the project and services of consultants to assist in assessing the options for the introduction of a toll collection system, with a special consideration of the collection of road tollers for freight vehicles making a proposal for a customs collection system on the basis of costs on the network of highways in the Republic of Croatia, will again come these consultants from this inter-nardona bank and will normally be paid as the leaders write from this quota of approved contract. So we wonder how many of these or similar contracts we have made, that it was in this or that convocation of the assembly. And when all that is summed up, it's not a negligible asset. Now I'm going to tell you one thing that we've been saying and saying for a long time. The situation so far in construction especially in the case of Bechtel Enka and other construction firms present at the moment, so they are working on building highways, so the situation is very simple. Bechtel Enke and other companies Štrabak, Alpina Bau not to list them all, sell Croatian stones that are unauthorized to the Croatian state. So they sell Croatian stone to the Croatian state because they have illegal quarryes and that's what the Croatian state pays them. Only on this basis Bechtel damaged what the state inspectorate had done, sent to the state's attorney's office, but when something was apparently sent to the state's attorney's office as if it had gone to the well nothing else made it, Bechtel owes the Croatian state something about $25 million only according to that item. When you take everyone according to the data that was last year for the others, that's $47 million in debt to you. So only by that basis do we know that on the plain floor, we see that the price of real car-km is determined for you somewhere around $4 million, so only by that basis could Croatia have 12km of highway. But now we're going to another thing very important, it means the price, it's basically the stone in the rock, it's rough after the mine. If you take that stone as a normal "slave" then it's built into both asphalt and all other things, and they're selling it to us again. So it's a very simple calculation. So he takes your rock that unauthorizedly exploits and then sells it to you and collects it, a very interesting thing. And when you take that part, we could only on that basis have that 102m euros to what this part of the highway costs, not to borrow loans. And it's interesting, that's what Minister Schuker said in the government's programme that there will be order in this area that one of the forms will be filling the state budget and that thing, but unfortunately we see that this continues, Bechtel continues to sell to the Croatian state Croatian stone, and it collects it very well, and then there's nothing to be surprised when you tell us that you can only raise your hands here. So on behalf of the club, we're asking that this whole highway-building situation be well reviewed. We ourselves are aware of the fact that this route corridor 10, D-4 he is profitable, he will maintain himself because so much fluctuation and everything else. These towards the Adriatic so far are not and can't be ok. I can't be rentable right now, but we think we're going to get in that variant at this speed that's now being forced to open this section by 24.6. we're going to come in the variant that we're going to be more expensive maintenance, keeping it from building ourselves because it's going to be forced and working quickly and then it's going to be unquality. This is why we ask that the Government of all the things that we used to say both Mr. Letica and the party president and with these new facts that we really well imagine whether we are really ready in the Croatian Parliament to support this variant to steal our stone and sell it to us in a processed situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11998	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u11999	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Guarantee Contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a Road Completion Project at the Xth Corridor in the Republic of Croatia for several reasons. It is primarily because all the projects of the former government are well started and today have a foundation and, above all, sufficient arguments and therefore, the need to be accepted by the current government. This proves that the former government has been very responsible and studioly approaching every project of this nature, I would say of a strategic nature, and finally the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which concluded the contract on 12 November 2003. Today's proposed law guarantees that the proposed projects will be and I am sure of the great satisfaction, that we share the satisfaction of the SDP, along with the local population and all those who will be significantly more secure in transporting this to the only unfinished part of the X. Corridor through Slavonia. We also believe in the satisfaction and satisfaction of the Croatian Government, which, along with the existing 170km of highways that will be put on the market this year, will, at the end of 2006, release these less than 30km of those shares. This act will finally complete the Xth Corridor in Slavonia, connected with highways in Serbia-Montenegro, and open opportunities to move forward with the construction of other equally significant communications in the area of Slavonia. I mean primary or we think primarily of corridor 5C but also others. As pointed out, this is a very favourable loan with an 18-year maturity, and has its full economic justification. There should be no burden on the budget because the increase in traffic from year to year is evident, which is of course a guarantee that Croatian roads from their business will regularly and above all serve this debt neatly. According to data presented at the 3rd European Transport Congress in Opatija on 22 and 23 April this year, the article by Mr Zeljko Lesic and others, streams, the transport of freight vehicles and goods to corridor X in transit through the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro to the countries of Southeast Europe and the Middle East, there were over 41 thousand vehicles with over 600,000 transported tonnes of goods. A year earlier, there were only 19.7 thousand vehicles with 287 thousand tonnes of goods, which means that only in a year the volume of traffic in that direction was increased by more than two times. According to the most recent vehicle in this direction, there were 12.8 thousand with Bulgarian tags, then Turkey's 11.8 thousand and Germany's 9.5 thousand. In view of the loading countries, it is noted that the most vehicles were loaded in Germany and that was 13.2 thousand with 193,000 tonnes of goods, then in Italy where 10 thousand vehicles were loaded with 139 tonnes of goods, etc. In view of further economic integration with the East, it is therefore expected that even more dynamic traffic in both directions, which will make this youngest corridor accepted only at the... conference in 1997, which connects north-east Europe with the southeast even more relevant. Of course, this 30km highway will not only speed up economic development and allow for better development of this part of Slavonia and the Republic of Croatia but also confirm the strategic commitment of the Republic of Croatia to use our comparative advantages of transport and geostrategic position, primarily to further build up modern roads, taking care of technological, ecological, economic, but also other standards, all with the aim of respecting the needs of the modern economy, and, above all, to reduce transport costs, faster interconnection, smooth movement of passengers and goods, the safety of the same with the natural maximum protection of the human environment. In this way, we are confident that without a developed network of roads, Croatia can hardly catch up with the European Union, which we are all seeking together. Finally, with the support of this law, the SDP Club points out the good path that the former government has made, brave moves that it has drawn especially in the area of infrastructure building, which it has in some ways shown its surprise by a colleague from the HSP Club. It's no surprise to us. Therefore, the debts of the past time period have also been achieved, which, both in the past days and today in the "Current afternoon" have been seen as the effects of the future as a series of difficult words and accusations. I repeat, this year on these 170km of modern highways that will serve all citizens, not only the Republic of Croatia but also wider. And for these very reasons, we suggest that our government continue as bravely with such projects as this because experience has shown that they are both good and smart moves. In addition, the impression is that only on these former government projects led by Ivica Racan, Mr. Ivo Sanader's government has the highest success so far. There is no objection to that, the satisfaction of the citizens is obvious. It's also good, with that everyone boasts, both citizens and government. So, just for those reasons, once again, full of support for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12000	Thank you very much. We don't have any charges to discuss. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12001	And now we're going to the vote. I think there's a lot of people in charge of that debate about interest, so the interest law wouldn't be done today, it would be going to the polls. Please quorum. 96 MPs in the assembly and MPs. First, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a project to complete the highway on Corridor 10 in the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 95. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find it unanimous with 96 votes to pass this final proposal of the Law on Corridor X.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12002	We move on to - Proposal for a law confirming the free trade agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 108. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. You have received the proposal in boxes, in accordance with Article 159. The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. You received the report at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? There isn't. Please come here because I can't talk. Does the Proposer's representative, I don't know, want a reporter? I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12003	Final proposal of the Act confirming the Free Trade Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. 108. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find it unanimous with 96 votes for the proposed law No. 108.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12004	We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 104. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail, in accordance with Article 159. The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on War Veterans. You received the reports at the session. Would the motioner's representative like to further explain the proposal? On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Tomislav Ibiæ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12005	Mr. Chairman, distinguished parliamentary deputies and MPs. I welcome you on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and also her apologies for not being present at this session of the Government. But here I will say in the shortest lines what are the reasons why the ministry, i.e. the government is proposing amendments to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund. Namely, the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund adopted in the 10th month of last year has been followed by serious remarks and objections of the profession to certain provisions, above all by the Securities Commission, the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Ministry of Finance, which focus primarily on the following three things. The existing Act does not define whether an open or closed fund is involved, and therefore it is not possible to adopt implementing acts either. Then, the existing Act is not possible for quality and professional supervision since the entire supervision of the operations of the Fund is carried out only by the Management Board of the Fund. Since the Fund is defined as existing on the money market and on the capital market, the Management Board assumes on itself the role of the Croatian National Bank and the Securities Commission which are responsible for the supervision of the business of financial market participants and who are best aware of the legal provisions and how such institutions function. And what may be most important in the whole story, the financial reporting of the members of the Fund and the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the existing Law cannot be done objectively to show the state of property, liabilities and net assets of the Fund from which each interested person can assess the result of the operation of the Fund. In addition, the Law must allow for the application of international accounting standards and independent audits in order to properly evaluate the Fund's assets. Therefore, the undefined status of the Fund in the existing Act does not allow for the application of any of the existing financial reporting forms when it comes to investment funds such as this. These are three basic reasons why amendments to the existing Law are proposed. Of course, there is also a relationship with the Compensation Management Society, Depositary Bank, etc. However, these are three difficult reasons why an amendment to the existing law is proposed. What is most important in the whole story of implementation and amendment of this Act does not require any additional means. The amendments to the Law are also familiar with associations from the Homeland War that have no significant objections to the amendment and they have unanimously supported it as a whole all ministries. So, I believe the Parliament will also support this amendment and the addition of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12006	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Here you go. The War Veterans Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12007	The Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament at the 6th session held on 25 May 2004 Consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by its act of 13 May 2004, with a proposal to do the same in accordance with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be brought by emergency procedure. The Committee does not object to the adoption of an emergency procedure law. The Committee held the discussion as a parent working body pursuant to Article 81. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Committee meetings were attended by representatives of associations from the Homeland War. The purpose of the amendment of the laws on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, according to the promoters, is to improve it. It will allow for the adoption of implementing acts of statutes, regulations and decisions, quality control of the operations of the Fund, where a securities commission is introduced in addition to the Management Board and a more transparent and quality financial reporting on the operation of the Fund at the end of the year. The fund is defined as an open investment fund and has no legal personality as has been the case so far in the law. It has been stated that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will amend certain articles of the final draft law with its amendments, in particular Articles 19 and 24, in which some unusualities and irregularities have been observed. Attending representatives of Homeland War associations have largely welcomed the proposed changes and additions. In their opinion, it is essential not to repeat the errors of the coupon privatisation and to leave enough time for the Fund to become liquid, thus achieving its purpose. It should be done to make sure that from as many state companies to be privatised as possible, part of the funds are reserved and transferred to the Defence Fund. Some representatives of the associations have suggested that profits achieved by the Fund's operations should not be taxed as it was settled in the applicable law, that a different distribution of net profits be made from investments and that the time limit should be reduced after which the assets of the Fund could be transferred to members from 3 to 1 year. The Committee members supported the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, noting that the Government of the Republic of Croatia must finally determine the number of Croatian defenders and the criteria to determine the number of individual shares per Fund member within the time limits proposed. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously concluded: It is proposed to the Croatian Assembly to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12008	I thank the esteemed representative Yukic. Anyone else on the board want to take a word for it? I'm opening a debate. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, the respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12009	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's a few words to look back on this Law, we really can't say in IDS that there's someone against this Croatian Defence Fund. We feel that this is good, but we still have to say and point out that this proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law with a final proposal that has come to the agenda by emergency procedure. However, we believe that one of the most serious and extensive issues that may have been discussed earlier is that the debate should have included those most concerned, or the defenders themselves, in this debate. I am telling you this because I have been approached by defenders from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County who say, they have presented me with a particular problem that still bothers them and leads them into doubt, or what they should have done so far and what problems had to be solved before this Law on the Croatian Defence Fund itself. Here's just a few examples of what those defenders were complaining about. One of the biggest problems, and we have heard that the Committee has concluded the very record of Croatian defenders, or that there is no register of Croatian defenders by talking about various numbers, how many defenders there are. From the fact that there are 400,000 defenders who think it's not real and that it's not true because there have been double records and when certificates for privileged car import were issued then 340,000 of those car import certificates were issued. What do defenders view as reality? They say about 250,000 defenders would really be the right number. Why is the real number of defenders important? Well, of course, around the future distribution of either shares or something else through the Fund itself. Because take an example of each defender getting only EUR 1000, that's already EUR 400 million worth. But the other problem that bothers the same defenders is how to actually show that the righteous is a distribution and how to carry out a righteous distribution? Because they say if the distribution is carried out according to the principle that the benefits for the import of cars were applied then they will not be satisfied. In some cities, they are also divided by these standards and do dwelling lists, which are also not fair for them. As far as the Fund itself is concerned, I think it is necessary to really take account of the internal structure itself because the defenders consider that they are not sufficiently represented in the management structures of the Fund, through their own means, in the management itself of both distribution and distribution of profits. As far as gain is concerned, there will probably still be a lot of speech and the question arises, of course, about the defense attorneys themselves, how can we actually justly share with the defenders themselves what belongs to them? And I think maybe defense associations should have been more involved in all of this so that they would really make one fair distribution once and end this one process of registering themselves as defenders. Why isn't someone in the interest of making records and registers? That might be another question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12010	I thank the respected representative Pesic-Bukovac. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12011	Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of my colleague, Bukovac, that the defenders are not represented in the administrative bodies or bodies. in the Fund, the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund. The quote is incorrect because 4 associations i.e. The coordination of associations has been proposed by 4 members to the Management Board and that is, in fact, the majority of which is the defence population represented in that Committee. And it is an incorrect assumption that this law does not define the number of members. This Law defines exactly the time until when the exact number of defenders should be established, and they will be established according to office records, defence management which are the most accurate and most competent to speak about who the Croatian defender is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12012	Thank you. He can't, he can't fix it. On behalf of the HSS Club, a respected representative of Zdenko Harami.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12013	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government. The Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, we proposed the adoption of the Croatian Assembly on 22 January 2003 by SDP representative Pavle Kalinić and representative of HSS Stjepan Zivković. The main motive for proposing this oath was primarily to enable Croatian defenders and members of their families to enjoy the overall rights that are contained in the right to shares. In order to ensure that the market value of the shares is maintained on the unstable market, the market value of the shares on the market would have fallen due to the pressure of the larger volume of shares on the market. The core capital of the fund would consist of 7% of the shares of the Croatian Telecom, Croatian Electricity and Ina. which companies until then are privatised in state ownership and after the privatisation is carried out also transfer 7% of shares of HRT, HZA, Croatian roads. Croatian forests, which are only anjveće companies owned by the Republic of Croatia as well as other shares of smaller companies from the porfelje of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed Law adopted on 1 October 2003 and entered into force on 25 October. Eight days after the publication in the People's Newspaper. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is now making a proposal to amend and supplement that law. as one of the legislators who changed the proposed changes and changes was also the representative of HSS to the HSS in a certain way experiencing as his own. It should be said immediately that the HSS for any improvement in the laws proposed and the amendments in question and the additions of the HSS Club are considered to be an improvement in this legislation. The first thing that this improvement clearly indicates is that the fund is classified in the category of open investment funds, and that it has no legal personality. In the future, all transactions with valuable papers from their portfolio must be performed by the stock exchange while supervision of the operations of the fund will be carried out by the Securities Commission. To achieve a more transparent and qualitative control of the fund's financial operations. The main goal is to keep the fund, as said, that shares of the defenders of the Homeland War and members of their families are not binding. Therefore, the proposed allowances and changes are prohibited from investing in real estate and from borrowing on the money market. And which could potentially lead to the devaluement of the shares and thus the disappearance of the reason for which the fund was founded. Associations stemmed from the Homeland War through their representatives mainly supported the proposed amendments and additions. And yet for reasons that they estimate that the proposed changes provide additional security stasis that the devalued shares will not occur. For these reasons, and as we have previously indicated, the HSS will support the amendments and additions to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12014	Thank you, dear Mr. Harami. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12015	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZe Club supports these extraordinary and supplemental laws on the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families for the reason that those shortcomings that have not been removed in the previous law are now being resolved and that such changes and additions are certainly being complemented by the law that was passed in the previous assembly and are certainly regulated by the rights of Croatian defenders in one good way for all Croatian defenders. By adopting these amendments and by supplementing the laws, three main provisions are adopted by the Government representative, and this is the adoption of implementing acts which are not regulated by the current law. Quality expert and financial reporting of both the members of the Fund and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This law did not fully enable the adoption of these acts, and therefore it was necessary to make these amendments and additions, a lot of things are well defined, and in the previous law but with these amendments and amendments we will certainly get security so that no more Croatian Homeland Fund happens. Which is actually within the bounds of bankruptcy, the liquidation I don't know what anymore. but I hope to these soles that you will all support them, all the clubs and that we will have a law that will bring real values to this priest and that through this Law and through these rights of shareholders, through these companies that will be given to participate in the economic war of the Republic of Croatia and control the greatest Croatian wealth from which they have received these rights. I must say that these amendments and amendments to the law are more clearly defined by the fund's status, advertising is the way in which business reports are reported and the financial representation of the results. Better protection of the fund's assets is achieved not only through different investment limits, but also through direct supervision of the Securities Commission. It clearly and ambiguously defines the position of the management company, and the depositary banks, as their mutual relations. It is not possible to transform into a lower organisational form of the fund, i.e. closed fund. And the government will be better able to achieve its founding rights and duties on behalf of the Republic of Croatia not only in the distribution of the fund, in the first three years, but also in the eventual liquidation of the fund at the end of the three-year period since its establishment. I hope this is quite satisfactory items that speak of how this fund's work is to be controlled and through which all organisational forms can be controlled by its further growth through these three years or its further realization. These amendments and additions to the law are still necessary because of one thing that will happen at the next points of the agenda, which is due to the decision to amend the orderly decision and dynamics of the Ina organization, in which it is precisely cumbersome or that the shares will be allocated and transferred to the fund immediately after the adoption of this law. St oga is the necessity to bring it and I would be pleased to bring a consensus with all parties so that the population of Croatian defenders in which people and people who gave sympathies gave members of the parties would be satisfied and would truly exercise their rights through it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12016	I thank the honourable representative, Josip Djakic. On behalf of the SDP club, respected representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12017	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the proposers. My colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the law on amendments and additions to the law on the Croatian Defence Fund, from the Homeland War. We heard what was brought in about 6.7 months ago should be told the merits of two parliamentary representatives Paul Kalinic from SDP and Stjepan Zivkovic from HSS. but it should also be pointed out that the law adopted unanimously means a consensus if I do not cheat on all MPs of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, there is no reason for these amendments to the law to be adopted as well. Of course, you should also say with what we believe may have been a burden to stand or to drop from these bill proposals as well as to warn of some things that will quickly follow, and which may give birth to some extra protruding. And it's better to know them and try to remove them because I think we'll agree that it's in the first place for all of us to divide the shares of these public companies into less fair and transparent. This is about the Croatian defense fund. It has been said here that the amendments to the law have taken place because of serious objections to the existing law. I think that maybe that finding is and does not stand, because if you see these changes, the proposed changes to the existing law two-thirds of them are purely cosmetic. It is about explicit changes, even changes in the order of certain words, and in our view it is about unnecessary changes, but probably the promoters also want part of the right to the authorship of this law. But let's put this aside because it speaks more about form than content, let's move on to this third that is more important, which, according to the allegations, determines more precisely the part-time work of the fund, which should contribute to the stability of that fund in accordance with the law as it states on investment funds. It should be pointed out that this remains undetected, that this proposal restricts to a certain extent the powers of the existing board of directors, and that seven members sit on the board of directors, of which four, means most of the members are representatives of the Associations of the Homeland War. It also increased the powers of the Securities Commission, although experts involved in this area will say that it is unclear how the Commission will exercise control as set out in this law. The deadlines for the adoption of all necessary acts for the normal functioning of this law are also further extended. The deadlines are not missed somewhere a month ago so now that these changes are being made they continue to flow. However, associations have agreed with all of these so that we can freely say that they bear part of the responsibility for what will continue to happen with this fund. Of course, responsibility is both at the Croatian Parliament and on all parliamentary parties in it, because they must provide a quality legal framework, I hope that this is the existing one. Also the control of the operation of the fund, one of the board members is also a representative of the Croatian Parliament in it, but each of us should eventually point to any irregularity so that what happened here, with the Croatian Homeland Fund, does not happen. Because defenders can't be fooled. All of this, every lie, the untruth returns as a boomerang and therefore this fund needs once again to be fully honest and transparently implemented into action, i.e. we need to do everything we can to bring it back to normal. Let me just remind myself a little bit of the 1990s and this famous Croatian Homeland Fund, the winning fund under the control of the HVIDRA leadership then, say a few elements that indicate how it worked and what needs to be done not to happen to this fund. For example, the Supervisory Board has never met, and even on the Supervisory Board, there are certain people sitting as advisers today or I don't know what their function is in the Ministry of Croatian Defence, or in this new Ministry of Family and Defence and intergenerational solidarity so that perhaps they could say more about why it was so. The supervision of the Ministry of Finance was never established, even the Ministry of Defence asked why it was so, and never the colossal response came. The assets of this fund are also unknown, the only thing that is known is the case of disappearance, not disappearance, but the acquisition of shares of the press from this fund and the privatisation of one of the Croatian tycoon companies, and Croatian defenders have received replacement non-value shares. So these are the experiences of the Croatian Homeland Fund that can't be repeated, we have experience privatizing the 90s that can't be repeated. We had experience last week of "Sunish Hvar", I hope that the lesson is drawn on it too, because the suspicions of the Croatian Defence Fund must not be even the smallest because there is a danger that then all this good intention that has been shown both by the former HDZ authorities and from the past when we have built it into the Laws on the privatisation of certain public enterprises so as not to fall into the water. It should also be made clear that the illusions of Croatian defenders must not be created that the shares they receive within a reasonable period of time will solve all their existential problems. Those who are unemployed that will be able to pay all the bills, all the debts. Those who do not have a residential question that these shares will be able to resolve the housing issue, etc. Unfortunately, most of the time, it won't be like that. Of course, this depends on the criteria that the Croatian Government will bring along with the associations, but one of the criteria will be the time spent in the Homeland War so that the maximum amount aside from the 100% disabled who are likely to be covered by this allocation of shares will have defenders who will not know in the war, who have been at war for 4 or 5 years. But at this point, no one can tell what value the total stock is and what the individual value of these shares will be and I stress another danger, which is that the privatisation of public enterprises is not completed within three years, that the liquidation of this fund is approached and that it goes into an individual division of shares, which is the same as one of the resolutions. There are two problems that will arise, which is that there will be a burden on institutions that will be able to implement it. We know what their quality is so that we need to find answers to the possible problem and the other, it is that the monetary stakes that will come in partial terms after each privatisation every year or two days will not be noticed when the Croatian defender reaches or notices because it will be far less than it would be if the defender were given a share of all privatised companies. I know there is no way to build an election campaign on this kind of thinking, but I believe that we are neither doing this because of the elections or that we are not going to go into the division of the shares directly ahead of the campaign, but we are already doing this because the legal and legal obligation towards Croatian defenders exists and that at least one part of the Croatian defenders would make their existence a little easier. I hope also that the Government will decide not only on the transfer of shares of Ina as we have heard it should follow immediately when voting these amendments to the law, but also on the transfer of shares, let's say, HT, because there is no reason that these same criteria do not apply to this company. All in all, at the very end, I can say that on behalf of the SDP club, we support these amendments to the law. We hope that as the Government has promised on the Committee on War Veterans, the amendments will correct the existing text because in some cases it is probably about random mistakes and that we will unanimously vote because at least according to what has been heard so far, there are no big reasons for doubting good intentions, and the task of all of us is to follow the implementation of this, we point to irregularities and eliminate them in walking. At the same time, I hope that, in addition to this, these Amendments of the Law, a new Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, which I also see as a colleague of Jukic, will come in a recent procedure so that we can discuss further improvements in the position of Croatian defenders. Because the former government came from the existing economic situation, the current economic situation, gave as much as it could, and I believe that if the economy is launched, and there is no reason not to believe all those promises made about the launch and booming of the Croatian economy, then there will also be more money for Croatian defenders. But here, to see it would be good and the law would be put into practice, the one that was promised long ago, and that's the law on the rights of Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12018	I would like to thank the esteemed representative Pancic. To correct the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12019	Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Pancic's. He stated that the Croatian Defence Ministry had a consultant who had participated before in the work of the HDZ Fund. That's not true. You changed names. Juraj and Djuro aren't the same names. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12020	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12021	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Given that I am the chairman of the Committee on Croatian Defences and the third term of office in the Assembly, I can say that this debate and this Final Bill of Law are not only him in itself, but also about the decision, a very important decision by the Government on the allocation of INA shares, the biggest event in favour of Croatian defenders in this assembly since the adoption of the first Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, and this is undeniable and should certainly be highlighted. What should also be said and reminded, and at least those colleagues who may not have followed in the past mandates, all the laws on the rights of Croatian defenders that have been passed in the Croatian state, and of them is the most important one in 96, have foreseen in their provisions the allocation of shares to Croatian defenders. So, in 96 years, and as we heard it, and I am obliged to point out here, the promoters were only seven months ago that proposal for the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund was adopted and it is necessary to give recognition to colleagues Kalinic and Zivkovic once more because, as we all know, it was because if it hadn't been for 7.8 years, there was always resistance to the implementation of these legal provisions in all those laws on the rights of Croatian defenders. As you know, they have often changed, and that should not, of course, be surprised because it is not small funds. It is about major companies, companies, and hundreds and millions of kunas, and of course it is about several hundred thousand Croatian defenders. These resistances were and I can personally testify because I participated in and as a member of the board and as a representative in the long procedure in the previous term before, I say, 7.8 months in the adoption of this important Law on the Croatian Defence Fund that we are improving today. And it is undeniable as it is also undisputed that all representatives of the associations of the ancients of the Homeland War support these changes and complements. And he would even dare to say that even they were initiators of these changes and additions because the coordination of associations with the Croatian Defence Ministry, as far as the Fund is concerned, has, as far as I know, led as it is said in the People's Dictionary, the main word and that's good because it only shows good intentions and good will both the Government and the Ministry, that this problem is finally removed from the agenda. With these amendments and additions, and in particular by decision, I reiterate the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the allocation of shares of INA, the Croatian Defence Fund, which should in all four years be the source of funding for Croatian defenders, and we all know well what kind of position they are in Croatian society. And we probably all agree with the fact that Croatian defenders have been bad as a category for the past 10 years and that Croatian society and Croatian people and the Croatian state have not given them materially enough as they deserve by their participation in the Homeland War and in the ultimate line and the creation of the Croatian state. What I also hold is important to emphasise is that the management of the Fund itself in the management of the Fund is a majority, and this also means the possibility of decision-making, and therefore also the responsibilities of representatives of the associations of those who came from the Homeland War. Of course, the minority is made up of representatives of the government. And there, I believe, is a bit of a danger in the subsequent management of the Fund, so as not to make the wrong decisions that could potentially harm the Fund's work in the long term, and thus to the Croatian defenders as a whole. Because our experience in the Republic of Croatia with investment funds is not great and very few people in the Republic of Croatia who understand this problem. In principle, of course, the principles of the market economy most of our experts in Croatia understand, but in these discussions about this Fund have been seen in practice that few people who are able to speak and explain the question of investment funds. So this should be taken into account because, in our opinion, the future of the Fund, and in this way also means its gains and all those moves that it needs to make for the benefit of Croatian defenders, depends primarily on the quality of the fund's management, which means on behalf of the Fund people who, on behalf of Croatian defenders, will make decisions, and they are, as you know, not only about the Fund itself but also on the market for both privatisation and for the stock market and for many other factors that are not predictable to the end. On the other hand, expectations of Croatian defenders through the media and through these years and the basis of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences are high. He would even dare to say too much, given the fact that the vast majority of Croatian defenders are expected after the Fund is put into office that they will receive significant material resources in the short term, based naturally on some of the experiences of other privatisations and the allocation of shares. As you remember, in Croatia, shares were allocated to Croatian military disabled persons, so the allocation of shares and family members, and as we know, all these shares ended very badly for those who were assigned, given that the hasty exit to the market, and those shares had so much value that they were practically devalued and that the intention of good at allocating shares practically did not bring material benefit, and that was the intention of these people, but to some mechanics, bags and those who had the opportunity for small money to buy those shares. And because of this experience, too, we in HSP, but in this case both the Government and most colleagues who made the proposal when the first one was passed in the previous term of the Fund bill, we felt that it was necessary to limit the possibility of selling out shares and thus protect the Croatian defenders themselves, and this proposal by law and by law and by doing so well, there will be a problem when the defenders themselves receive shares and when oen are placed on the market. There is always a danger that the market is worth falling to them, thus making material benefits not to the defenders but to others. Of course, we read the newspaper, we follow the media, we follow magazines, and we have the promotions as representatives, and we know that around the investment funds and around the shares there are a lot of ambiguities and doubts in this economic scene in Croatia. And always be careful when it comes to a serious subject like this involving several hundred thousand Croatian defenders. And here we see in HSP, above all, the indifference of what a small part of the government's administration sees as, above all, the government's responsibility as key and most significant. Because yet the government has both opportunities and means and means to direct the movement of management of the fund in a direction that should be positive for the fund itself and thus also for Croatian defenders. This bill is very high-quality, it is improved experts we have consulted all say it is a very qualitative proposal, and if it is fair and properly managed professionally by the fund, there is no danger of him coming into question. But first of all, you can expect a significant profit and thus be used for Croatian defenders. And I repeat the management of the fund is a key link in achieving and reviving this law. And that's what we want to warn you about. It is clear that the issue of the number of Croatian defenders in the Republic of Croatia is an open issue. But it's not that hard to ask, it's a political issue. As we all know, no one can take out the defense office or the MUP without being recorded. The SVi Croatian defenders have been recorded, the second question is why it is not in front of the public. I assure you that the Minister of the Interior Psols, the current defence minister, can receive information on all Croatian defenders who are registered within a very short period of time through the information system. Those recorded, of course, that there are some number of Croatian defenders, a small number that is possibly in question status and has not been resolved. But to speak in a way that there are Croatian defenders with status and that are not recorded is not appropriate. It's not as big a problem as it might seem. And two on the criteria, according to this bill, the government will set criteria for the allocation of shares to defenders. There are no other criteria than the time spent in the Homeland War. The introduction of any other criteria in our opinion in HSP would be inappropriate. So whether it acts any other functions, positions, time spent in the Homeland War if we're going to do what we're going to do, and that must be our intention right in this case could be just the time spent in the Homeland War. The issue of privatisation is the issue that is being broken by spears in Croatia, but it should also be said that privatisation did not begin in 1996 we know that the law on privatisation was passed by the first government so-called. The government of national unity during the Homeland War, and this process is ongoing. And it ran from 96 till last year until the law was passed on this fund law. And therefore the privatisation process is necessarily related to the implementation of this law. And practically the government's goodwill expressed by accepting amendments and additions to this law, and mainly through the decision to assign shares of Ina. Further powers will be monitored only in a way that we can pay good attention to the fact that any decision on privatisation is taken by the Government to take care of this fund as well. We have bad experiences, we will not mention the Croatian Homeland Fund, but it is one experience that certainly caused great damage to the Croatian defenders, and the idea that at some point Croatian defenders should be returned to at least part of what they gave for the Croatian state. At least that part of the time since their presence in the armed forces was excluded from the possibility of competition means they could not be employed, they could not take employment positions, neither in the state administration nor in many other segments. Well, at least that part to make up for them, one way is this fund. We will follow closely the work of the management board of the fund and the government's special decisions regarding privatisation in the club of the Croatian Party of Rights. In which I expect the government to make an account of this and a colleague, Pancic, there is no reason that this decision on Ina was not the decision and the allocation of shares of HTA. Or still that famous HT privatisation contract that we've been trying to get into our hands for years, which we have supposed to have constitutional rights on this, unfortunately, as you know, we haven't even been able to see that contract yet. Obviously, there's something wrong with that. So I propose to the government that we finish this story on secret contracts and secret annexes around HTA, that it decide on the allocation of shares of the Croatian Defence Fund and that we sort of end this story because there is no reason to have legal assumptions or even obligations. Of course, we support this bill and hope that after the fund starts, it will become one of the stronger funds in the Republic of Croatia and that this Croatian state will finally return at least part of what they have given for Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12022	I thank the esteemed representative Yukic. With this, we've exhausted the discussion by the skulls, we're moving on to an individual debate. It's time for the Honorable Representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12023	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, of course it's worth upholding this proposed law. First of all, because it represents an attempt to amend the applicable law as we know it was passed on the proposal of a member of the SDpa club in the previous assembly of MP Kalinic. Who, along with MP Zivkovic, proposed the legal text. With a good intention of finally getting a trust that the defenders will benefit from. So that will facilitate their existence, which will mean improving their life opportunities. The fact that defense organizations gave support to the law itself when it was passed, and now it's working on it. They show that the defense's expectations are high. THAT expectation will be fulfilled, for if it is not fulfilled, then their dissatisfaction will be great. In that respect, I think there's going to be a problem with user records. In Croatia, I have a record of the defenders, 410, 420 thousand are defenders, but the fact is that all those who have come close to the monument of the Homeland War or the home of President Tudjman's gratitude. and those who have worked as officials in the Ministry of the Interior or in Morhu. Secretaries, telephoners, and so on, who were never on the battlefield there were different non-combat units. They're all on this record today. If they have the right to benefit from the benefits of this fund, I'm afraid there will be dissatisfaction among those who have really fought. That answer to the question we don't have yet. And it's not too late to make that record to the users of this fund. But in this job, you should start with something else, otherwise one good intention will turn a good effort into its opposite. Once again, we'll have a division of who's a defense attorney, who's not a defender, who was on the battlefield, who was on the trench, who wasn't in the trench. We had a similar situation with the disabled when this system of translation began to identify who was actually a military invalid, by the way of suffering, the place of suffering, the circumstances of suffering, whether it was in combat action, whether it was about the fight or whether it was in the city, in some kind of car banal accident that had nothing to do with the war. But as we know, this procedure has now been stopped, which has begun, and it is a pity that it has been stopped, it is a pity. Because he'll eventually, the blank bills will eventually be returned to the bill. If the job is not done by the end it will eventually return to the charge and eventually the actual disabled will begin to complain that they are together with them in the same group are those who did not die in the war, who are not in the right sense wartime disabled. But on my own legal proposal, I have two observations. I do not understand why Article 4 of the existing law turned out to be paragraph 1 which reads: "The Fund is authorised to acquire securities only if this leads to an increase in the value of the Fund's assets and to create assumptions for improving its business and all in accordance with this Act." It's been changed. It would not be good to think how it suggests that the Fund will be authorised to acquire securities and then if this does not lead to an increase in the value of the Fund's assets. If those shares that the Fund will acquire by buying will be the poor quality of some companies that will end up in bankruptcy, then the Fund, and ultimately, the defenders will not benefit from that. This was a useful item in this article, and it is not clear to me why it has fallen out, because if we keep it in the law, then all those who will manage the Fund, including those who will control their management, commit to this article, are obliged to keep an eye on how they acquire shares of which companies. We strengthen their responsibility all in order to protect those who will benefit from the Fund, which are defenders. I therefore ask the Government to consider this remark, and possibly by its amendment it puts it back if there is no particular reason why it turned out to be out. But that reason in these arguments the law he is not listed, he is not listed at all. The fact that this 1st paragraph is out of place is not commented on in terms of articles or in this general explanation, and I do not understand why the current Article 5 of the second indent of Article 5, which states that the Fund has a statute governing the fundamental principles and restrictions of investment. That would be useful if it was written in the statutes. Therefore, the Statute and there is a basis for this law to develop details and to enter into the Statute a truly and fundamental principle of the Fund and, in particular, a limitation of investment to what extent and in what way the degree of risk can be put into investment. I would therefore ask the promoter that these remarks, I am not going to submit a special amendment, I think that the applicant's intensity is good and that these remarks will be considered with respect and if he accepts them that this will bring back to the legal text with their own amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12024	I would like to thank the esteemed representative, Stazic. It is up to the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12025	Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families in addition to fulfilling, fulfils the social rights of defenders and in a certain way fulfils and owes them more than that is their active involvement in the economic growth of Croatia where actually defenders appear as entities, co-owners of the Croatian economy. It is good that the amendments to the existing law will provide more, i.e. More transparent business, then the right of the Fund to decide on a change in investment policy, the status of the Fund, etc. Also, changes relating to the board of directors where members will actually change over four years, I don't know since these changes will be over four years, may also be linked to the elections, because actually the representatives of the government will participate in the Fund and will take on more responsibility for the good functioning of the Fund. And then the other changes that have been made that I wouldn't say here right now because it would actually be repeated are welcome. I am using this opportunity to actually draw attention to the Ministry of Defence, headed by the Deputy Prime Minister of Jadranka Kosor, who has made a great effort and a turn towards the defender, and that should be emphasized. So I would put this law in one of the segments of what has been done so far, and he is, therefore, in the domain I would say social security. the economic integration of Croatian defenders. Moreover, for Croatian defenders, much has been done in the field of communication with them, so what has been very difficult so far and difficult is now easy. Then much has been done in the field of medical and psychosocial rehabilitation, which especially as a doctor delights me. Also the changes to the legal regulation that is the prerequisite for all of this is and at this point we are doing it, and so far it has been done a lot. This morning I am certainly encouraged to thank and thank the Vice-President for the fact that the status of defender of the Croatian Defence Council will be considered at one interstate level, at one interstate level and at last as symbolic, but more than that, I would point out the attempt, or decision of this ministry to make flags of prisoners and missing persons as an ethical and moral gesture against this very sensitive population. So the defenders are our wealth and deserve every respect and this is another attempt to achieve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12026	I would like to thank the esteemed representative, Bagaric. It is up to the esteemed representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12027	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Certainly unequivocal, clear, full support for the Croatian Defence Fund project, the original idea, as certainly an initiative, that this Fund is working as soon as possible. When we talk about the Croatian Defence Fund, then it is certainly emphasized, and I will especially point out that we are not only talking about the full rights of Croatian defenders but we are also talking about an important economic topic. We are really talking about an important economic issue because we must not forget that the Croatian Defence Fund is or will have the most valuable part of the Croatian economy. What they say is, family silver or gold because 7% of INA shares, 7% of HT shares, a significant part of HEP shares, the moment the HEP privatisation starts. These are Croatian forests, Croatian railways, etc. Therefore, through a project of the Croatian Defence Fund, there is indeed a huge economic potential that needs to be well-known and effectively managed, for a number of reasons. Not only from those economics, not only those political ones, but above all because of the need to manage the Croatian Defence Fund in this way, Croatian defenders are affirmed in peacetime. We must certainly remember this occasion some of our lessons learned from recent history that were not so good and that warn us that managing such a fund is indeed a very complex task in every respect. Unfortunately, the Croatian Homeland Fund project was not successful. Many lessons learned from this project should be taken into account, we should respect them so that the mistakes of our recent past would not be repeated because of the mistakes in this case, in the case of this large and important political, economic project, we do not have the right to make mistakes. And for this reason, I would like to say a few words about what is particularly important, and this is related to the quality management of the Croatian Defence Fund. There are several bodies that play an extremely important and responsible role. First of all, the board of directors. The Governing Board is appointed by the Croatian Government in its amendments, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law. The Management Board should have, among other things, several representatives of the Government, specifically the Croatian Defence Minister, representatives of the Croatian Parliament, the representative of the economy, which highlights the fact that the Croatian Defence Fund project is important and an economic project. 4 representatives of the defence population should express all defence interests as a whole. Whether it's 240 or 400 thousand defenders, it's something that must firstly be clearly, reliably and unequivocally established. Therefore, it is a great task for the board of directors to clearly define the management strategy of this Fund because the strategy must also be accepted by the Fund Management Society, which will be selected in an appropriate public tender. Someone here said well and pointed out, these are new forms of economic activity, investment funds. We really lack experience, and we need to be extremely careful when we choose people who will manage this important, important Fund. First of all, it refers to the Fund Management Society. It will be selected in a public competition and we hope to get a quality, professional and competent body that will fully follow that strategy defined by the Management Board. In that management system certainly something that needs to be done, which, as far as I know, is done by the Statute of the Fund. I believe that the commission working on it is aware of all its responsibilities and complexity of the task that needs to be done as soon as possible. The link between HT, INA, HEP, Forest, Croatian Railways, the complexity of the Fund really requires exceptional knowledge to be found integrated within the Fund Management Society. Whether it's realistic or not, we'll just see. Certainly when we talk about defenders and the defence population, when we talk about the fund as a project, then it is necessary to especially highlight the realism of expectations about the Fund. It is necessary to avoid illusions, someone here well stressed that the Fund will be able to resolve all the social and other status issues that plague Croatian defenders quickly. Therefore, it would particularly highlight the importance of education of the defence population when it comes to the Croatian Defence Fund. Without understanding the role of the Fund, without understanding the objectives, without clear views of the defence population as a whole, which must be integrated into the Management Board and the overall strategy of not only the Management Board but also the Fund and Statute Management Society, this project will not experience the positive affirmation we expect. Therefore, lasting concern, quality people, permanent, constant surveillance according to the highest standards. Furthermore, today it is pointed out that 27 thousand Croatian defenders are unemployed, overqualified, education, employment of Croatian defenders is certainly one important issue, one important issue in which this Fund can find its role and purpose in action. And he would point out, perhaps in the end, that for no particular reason in the bill, he insists on so-called. exit strategy or fund liquidation. It's been prevented by a time limit of three years, but I think that's the part that's not the most important moment right now. That many elements, as I said, are the education of the defence population and the successful management of all these bodies that need to be managed by this Fund are far more important. The liquidation of the fund would really be what we least want. It would be politically unacceptable, it would be economically unacceptable, and I certainly believe that all of those conditions will be created, that this fund will be managed in quality, that it will have quality supervision and that it will be affirmative, not only for defenders but also for those who move it. And that would be one successful economic fund. Therefore, with full rights and full support for this initiative, but also a warning that constant, continuous supervision of the work of this Fund must be a permanent task of all management bodies, but also of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12028	I would like to thank Honorable Representative Cosic. It's time for the Honorable Representative Damir Caine. He's not in the assembly, he's losing his right to debate. And the last of the reported respected advocates of Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12029	Dear Vice President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS and PGS Club and I personally are very pleased to support this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund. The public debate on this Fund has been going on for 6, 7 years, which should only result in the quality of the material and the final proposal of the Fund Act. Amendments to the Law did not violate the meaning of the Law and it remains the same in its essence and purpose, and in some segments it has been improved. Croatian defenders have long waited for social and homeland debt to be met. That is why this Fund needs and wants to include the defence population to participate in the economic growth of the state through the strongest firms in the Republic of Croatia, which will now be co-owners. I must point out that in 1999, the first HT privatisation law, which says that 7% of Croatian defences are reserved without compensation, and the amendment of the Croatian Telecommunications Act in 2001, confirms that in 2002, the Law on Privatisation of INE and HEP also reserves 7% of shares. I mean, this Fund has a long way to go, so I think it's going to be in the function of Croatian defenders and their families. This Fund as an open fund is maximum protected from various bags that bought shares for cheap money and thus devalued the value of the share in the Fund. That is why there are no shares in this Fund, but shares that each defender will receive in 6.7 months. It should be pointed out that the Government, the Parliament and the Supervisory Board are controlling the work of this Fund and I think that the Fund's protection is maximum. The chronology that I would like to revive this Fund for the sake of the Croatian public and also for my colleagues and colleagues in the Assembly to show in some way what time this Fund should be revived. It means 6 months. The creation of statutes, the production of tender documentation for the selection of the Management Society's Management Fund. 6 and 7 months of government decisions on how to register, criteria and criteria for the registration of defenders in the Fund, 7 months of the selection of the Fund management company. Eight months from the start of a defense attorney's enrollment in the Fund, first query six months. 8.9 months of transfer of shares to the Fund from the Government, we expect that in February 2005 defenders will receive confirmation of their participation in the Fund after the lists of governments and management companies are co-ordinated with Article 33a. And finally split up to get the Fund. 1/3 goes for the division as dividends to the owners of the Fund, 1/3 goes for developmental social and humanitarian measures and for the purpose of improving the status of Croatian defenders and members of their families. The Management Board, in accordance with the Government's special regulation, will determine the purpose of this part of the net profit and eventually a third-third will invest in the reinvestment of the Fund to determine the Commission for Securities of the Republic of Croatia in the distribution and reinvestment of the Fund. Finally, I would like to thank all those who contributed to this Fund and work on it on behalf of all Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12030	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative of Kurt's. In the name of the promoter, the word has the Vice-President of the Government, Mrs. Kosor, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12031	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I first want to apologize to you for coming to the end of the debate, as you probably know from 16 hours, there was an extraordinary cabinet session, and I had to be at the session. Here, but I've also received information about the debate so far and what I've heard, here I am very happy as a minister, as Deputy Prime Minister. I am pleased that the clubs are unique in the position to support these amendments and supplement the Law, I will be very pleased to have these amendments supported by consensus, and I believe that this will be the case when we debate, when we vote on the new Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families who are just finishing, and the public debate on the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families will soon begin. I would also like to repeat about this Act, i.e. the amendments and additions to the Act, that these amendments and additions are in line with the Associations which are the coordination of Associations from the Homeland War. DA was working on these amendments and additions by an expert working group made by representatives of the Government as well as representatives of the associations. DA will be the largest fund in the Republic of Croatia with assets that will consist of shares in our highest quality stock companies such as Croatian Telecom, INA, HEP, HZ and several other companies, assets from around 3 to 4 billion kuna, and therefore we have to go to these changes by accepting all the advice and remarks of the professional public. In particular, the Fund, as well as the Securities Commission, were unable to skip those remarks because we want this to be the Health Legs Act that will really return both moral and any other debt to Croatian defenders. Of course, all of us together in the government and you in the Ministry of the Ministry are first and foremost eager to protect Croatian defenders from various bags, we remember the past and we want events from the past not to happen again, of course. We will, of course, also accept the proposals put forward in this debate, which are constructive and which will be translated into amendments to the Government. Finally, I would also like to remind myself of the recent decision of the Croatian Government on amendments to the Order and Dynamics of the privatisation of the INE Industry of Oil d.d., that amendment went in this direction immediately following the amendment of this law, so it was necessary to amend the law in an emergency procedure, so that immediately after the amendment of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families of the shares to the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. It was therefore a decision to amend the Order and Dynamics Decision of the privatisation of INE. As far as further events surrounding the Fund are concerned, I would like to express my thanks to Mr. MP who spoke about the proposal earlier, the hodogram for the law's implementation activities, I would like to say a proposal for our hodogram, which we have already discussed on the Board of Directors of the Fund, as soon as you respected MPs vote this Act, which I am the chairman of the Management Board to call on the Management Board and we are going immediately to implement all the necessary actions to put the Fund on its feet. It means making statutes, immediately after the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law, setting out the conditions and calling of a public tender for the selection of the Fund management company, in June, then choosing the Fund management company in July, the selection of the depositary bank also in July and clearly parallel with all these ongoing transactions concerning the construction of the Croatian defenders' register. This work is going to be done over the year and we will finally have what we should have for a long time what we lack in the register of Croatian defenders, and making criteria for participation in the fund, is coming as a job in July and August of this year. Thank you very much, for your constructive discussion and your touch to make this a really good law that can be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12032	I would like to thank Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Jadranka Kosor and to conclude the debate. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, P.Z. No. 104. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Government after the deadline and in accordance with Article 166(1). The Rules of Procedure should be made clear whether they accept these amendments, which after the first deadline of the first Government, are two amendments. Who's in? Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State to explain amendments 1 and 2. Mr Tomislav Ivić, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12034	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is the relatively small corrections of the existing amendment proposal aimed at even better legal positioning these regulations. Article 19 is amended because the final draft law provides for an amendment to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Law, since Article 5 of the existing law is already regulated in such a way as to lay down the basis for the calculation of the fund management company's compensation to be paid from the Fund's assets. Article 8 provides that the Management Board shall adopt the Statute of the Fund with the prior consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Accordingly, it is proposed to regulate the entire Article 23 as set out in the amendment. In the second amendment, in Article 34, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: ...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12035	Thank you very much. We have to, we have before procedure one. I am opening a debate on this amendment as referred to in Article 166(2), only representatives of the representatives of the clubs may take part in the debate. There's no interest. I am voting on Amendment 1 to the Government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that Amendment 1 of the Government has been accepted by 93 votes in favour and four abstentions. Amendment 2. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12036	Thank you very much. In Amendment 2 to Article 24(2), instead of saying: "The Government will set out the purpose of this part of the net profit by a special regulation", it is added, or is replaced by the words: "The Management Board will, in agreement with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, set out the purpose of this part of the decision.". The Government of the Republic agrees with the statute of the Fund which proposes and brings the Management Board. An amendment to this legislative solution has been proposed in Article 24(2).
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12037	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on Amendment 2 to the Government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find Amendment 2 to the government passed by 95 votes in favour and 2 abstentions. Secretary of State, please show the amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12038	Since this is a nomotechnical nature, the government accepts amendments to the Committee on Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12039	Thank you very much. They become an integral part of the Law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 93 votes for and 4 abstentions, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund of the Homeland War and members of their families has been adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. In accordance with the Committee's proposal to vote, I am voting on the next conclusion of the Legislative Committee. The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to carry out a revision of the text of this Law before its publication in the National Journal. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find it unanimous with 97 votes to reach the proposed conclusion. The next item is - Giving consent to the Decision on amendments to the Order and Dynamics of Privatisation of INA-Industry of Oil d.d. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on INI-Industry of Oil d.d. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted that act. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Economy, Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. /. I ask Mr Branko Vukelic, Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship to further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12041	Tell us, President, what's tomorrow, what's the start?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12042	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. At its meeting on 18 April 2002, the INA Privatisation Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, decided on the order and dynamics of the privatisation of the INA of the oil industry d.d. In that decision, the first point speaks of 7% of the shares reserved for Croatian defenders and members of their families, the point in the 2nd item speaks of 7% of the shares reserved for employees and former employees of INA groups. The third paragraph of point 1 of that decision refers to a strategic investor who will be sold 25% plus 1 shares, and the first paragraph of the decision speaks of 15% of the shares that will be sold in the public tender procedure to Croatian citizens with the right of championship, benefits and conditions to be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by a special decision, and to domestic legal persons and foreign investors without the right of championship and special benefits. Point 2 of this decision defines dynamics, so paragraph 1 states that shares intended for Croatian defenders and members of their families, so 7% of shares will be transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families immediately after the founding of the fund. It is then said that shares belonging to 7% of employees and earlier employees of INA groups will be transferred, i.e. that the sale will take place within 30 days of the first sale of shares in the public tender procedure. And in paragraph 4 of that second point of this decision, it is said that the process of selling shares to Croatian citizens, i.e. legal persons and foreign investors of those 15% of the shares, will be carried out no later than 6 months from the date of the end of the sale to the strategic investor of those 25% plus 1 shares. This amendment to the decision on the order and dynamics of the privatisation of INA proposes an amendment in two points of point 2 of this Decision. The first amendment was also said by some vice-president Mrs Kosor, which is that the shares from which they are intended for Croatian defenders and members of their families will be transferred to this fund for Croatian defenders immediately after the adoption of the amendments and the addition of the Law on the Fund for Croatian Defences, so you have conducted the debate in the previous point and when the Parliament adopts amendments and additions to the Law on the Fund of Croatian Defences and members of their families will immediately be transferred to these 7% of the shares on the proposal for this decision. and amending paragraph 4 of point 2 of the decision, where a period of 6 months defined in the previous decision is moved to a period of up to 12 months, up to 12 months, not 12 months, but up to 12 months, so it can be done before, but no later than 12 months, the second phase must be carried out, so to privatise and sell the shares to 15 % of the shares of INA to Croatian citizens, i.e. legal persons and foreign investors. A brief explanation, the procedure is clear and familiar, the process of preparing the public sale of shares very complex procedure in which a number of previous actions that require and a long time should be taken. The sale process itself is also a very complex process, which requires a preliminary examination of the securities market, an analysis of the company, whose shares are sold and a series of accompanying actions relating to the share sale process itself. It is also apparent from all of this that this preparation and implementation of the public offering of the stock is described, rather than what was prescribed by this Government decision of 18 April 2002, and that we could prepare and carry out in a quality way all of what is related to the sale of these 15% of the INA shares is proposed to amend the decision on order and dynamics of privatisation of the INA oil industry d.d. the way I've explained it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12043	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. No clubs. An individual debate. The first is the respected representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12044	Mr. President, just two things about this brief text of this brief decision. First, it is not clear why the Government is coming before the Parliament with this decision, when under the Law before the Parliament is obliged to come only when it comes to the decision on a strategic partner? So this decision could be made by the government alone, without the Parliament's consent. On the one hand, it is good to come before the Parliament for both the public and the respect of the parliament's institutions. But on the other hand, it can also mean removing responsibility for government decisions. Second and more important thing. The Croatian Defence Fund of the Homeland War is transferred 7% of the shares immediately. Right after the election of the amendments to the law and of course the vote of this decision. And the fund doesn't even have a statute yet. The fund doesn't have a statute. The Fund has no general acts to act on. It's a little illogical. And that's where I think I'm unnecessarily fast. We have a law on the fund, and now we've discussed its necessary changes, beneficial changes. But I think it was still supposed to wait for the fund to come to life under that law. Because just the legal existence of the fund and the existence of the Governing Council isn't enough for the fund to operate, to act normally. So, I don't understand the purpose of this haste? For three years, the Fund needs to collect any shares of state-owned enterprises, buy shares, so that after three years it can begin to pay the defenders some dividend or share that share. Why now, this week or next, transfer that 7% to a fund that's not working yet? So I ask you to in your final address at this point if you can answer me these questions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12045	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone, not a word. The Honorable Representative of the Shima Rifle. He's giving up. Thank you very much. And Milan Meden. Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12046	Thank you, Mr. President. Why the consent of the Parliament to this decision comes from the Law on Privatisation of Article 4 where it clearly states that the order and dynamics of privatisation are determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the consent of the Croatian Parliament and for all of these privatisation stages and for all of these shares that we have talked about here in this decision. Therefore, no one is hiding in these changes to the decision behind the parliament or the government but is talking about what the INA Privatisation Act said and the Croatian Government's commitments when changing order and dynamics of privatisation to give such a decision to consent to the Croatian Parliament. I think that's quite clear. The next thing, what we are changing in paragraph 1 of point 2 of this decision is what concerns the previous decision, which said that the shares for defenders, Croatian defenders and members of their families will be transferred within eight days of the date of its establishment to the Defence Fund. You made that decision in 2002. Since it was in the procedure and you had it here at the meeting in the previous point of change and the addition of the Law on the Defence Fund, it is natural to say that, by amendments and additions to the Fund decision, the shares would be transferred because, unfortunately, they were already to be transferred immediately after the formation of the Fund and they were not, in fact, because the Fund was finally not operational because the Fund Act had to be amended. I think it is clear both the desire and the intention and the Croatian Government with this amendment that a clear message is being made that both Croatian defenders and members of their families that the Croatian Government is ready to fulfil its obligation on the basis of these previous decisions, therefore this decision is also confirmed on the transfer of 7% of shares to the Croatian Defence Fund and their family members immediately after the amendments to the laws necessary to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12047	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Adherence to the decision to amend the decision on the order and dynamics of privatisation of INA Oil Industry d.d. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Order Decision and the dynamics of privatisation of INA Oil Industry d.d. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 97 votes put forward, the decision is proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12050	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! As you know, for two and a half years, the Law on Encouraged Housebuilding has been applied and we have determined after taking over complete jobs that certain things need to be changed and that is why we are proposing amendments and additions to the Law on Encouragement but by emergency procedure due to some elements that should be resolved immediately. The first thing we want to change in this law is to equalise the rights of citizens who buy a finished apartment built according to the provisions of laws and those of citizens who reconstruct, upgrade or upgrade buildings and family houses. In fact, in some places, we have to build houses with three, four or five apartments that we have found to be irrational and that it would be much better to allow people to be able to do the same means if they are listed under the same conditions as if they were buying an apartment to build or upgrade their family home or family home. Then, we propose to allow units of local self-government to set up their own non-profit organisations for the purpose of building apartments. Namely, as you know so far, the basis of the law on complete construction and the full implementation of the law has been the responsibility of the Agency for Legal Traffic of Real Estates, which has transferred works on the basis of the agreement on the design, supervision and implementation of works by the Ministry of Public Works. We think that the state should not deal with building housing, but that these housing facilities should build units of local self-government in those who, of course, want and those who have the opportunity to establish and monitor the work of such agencies or non-profit organisations. It is especially good for us to accept big cities because even the most such constructions happen in large cities and these people know which citizens they need the most and what they need the most. Then, we propose to facilitate the housing of families with three or more children that they do not have to pay for participation rather than be included in the loan. We think that this way these people will also be easier to get to the apartment because however we look at 15% of the value of the apartment is still difficult to secure. Then, one of the main reasons why we are looking for an emergency procedure is the problem of building a garage under residential buildings or business premises or public facilities located in individual buildings. According to the current POS Act, it was clear that individual buildings should be built in already finished settlements, however, as it has now happened, the construction of new settlements in which additional facilities should be provided. Detailed plans or urban plans of certain cities and municipalities require garages to be built under the facility and it is necessary to build children's kindergartens and some cultural facilities, infirmarys and such. This law did not regulate this because it was assumed that garage or parking spaces could be provided around the facilities themselves, but this is obviously not possible and we have a particular problem in Zagreb and Split. As we started building in Zagreb apartments in Spain and for 23 buildings we finally got a building permit and they usually have garages under their facilities we think it is necessary to do so and we suggest that the state, that these garages are bought by people who buy and apartments because it is normal and logical because they have no place to leave their cars elsewhere and that in garages there is an incentive means that the state encourages and builds these garages in a way that counts, means that such sales contracts are made together with the apartment. As far as accompanying content is concerned, it means as far as kindergartens, schools or facilities still have to be built, I suggest that if the unit of local self-government is looking for it, it means that if it has adopted such a detailed plan in which such content has to happen in a particular building, we suggest that it also pays the unit of local self-government whether it will pay it in a way that it will give someone a concession, that they will sell the space, however, we believe that they simply have to do so. The state cannot co-finance this because the state ultimately has construction and encourages self-building of housing facilities and units of local self-government pay for land and municipal infrastructure. Now it happens in certain cases that units of local self-government have completely distanced themselves from a particular problem that they do not want to participate in either land or in the construction of municipal infrastructure as we do in Split or Imotski and that we simply have to resolve these issues that have not been resolved in this law. There's one more thing we also need to solve quickly. In fact, about 300 apartments were unsold by these that were built and moved in. These apartments simply can't be sold on the market or anyone. We suggest that these apartments be used to give our central state property office and that the central state property office together with the government decide to give, that these apartments are given to local self-government units that will then rent people who are either social problems or victims of the Homeland War. That way, those 300 apartments, and there'll probably be more of those apartments, we'll be able to handle it. Here's what I'm going to say is a case of Sisak where we built 68 apartments and only 20 apartments were sold and other apartments couldn't be sold. Therefore, there is no reason for the state to keep these apartments instead of moving them in to people who really need them. These are the main amendments and additions to this Law, we think it is just that we should adopt this law in such a way. And, well, we suggest we bring it in as an emergency procedure. There's one more thing I forgot to say, that's what we're proposing that the price of apartments be used at the level of the building. Why? Because we think they're usually designed on the ground floor in these residential buildings. Business spaces are hard to sell or not sold at all. We think it should be redesigned into apartments but that apartments on the ground floor or on the back floor without an elevator should be something cheaper than apartments located on the first floor, second floor or third floor. The average value in that building cannot exceed 910 euros per square metre but there is no reason for those on the ground floor or on the attic not to pay a lower price per square metre of apartment. Well, that's it, and I'm asking you to support that, the amendments and the additions to that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12051	Thank you, Madam Minister. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to? They don't want to. I'm opening a club debate. First, respected representative Pero Kovacevic on behalf of the HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12052	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister. The HSP club will support amendments and additions to social and encouraging housing laws. And here we must commend the minister and her ministry that we are getting really high-quality laws from her ministry, so which are both nomotechnical and contentally far better than we normally get from the government. Before I look back at the bill itself, I must first say what is very important. And that's the fact that the program... We know that Mr. Cacic, who is not here now, has repeatedly pointed out these are Cacic's apartments, it's a POSA program, and the POSA programme is essentially a copy of a housing programme for the victims of the Homeland War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So under the same garters, this program was established in 96th, the same are uzances or similar, and then it turns out it's the former Minister of Cacic's program, because the uzances are the same, the municipalities and cities give construction sites,... It goes to their load and builds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, this is true, about the POSA programme with the immediate need to say that according to this programme, starting with the care of the victims of the Homeland War, before the introduction of the VAT, the price of a square meter was about a thousand marks, or today it would be about 500 euros, and we know that the prices and what height it came to for the POSA programme were over 900, 900 and some euros, as in which areas, the truth was in an area like in Zadar and elsewhere that the price was far real. We also know that 700 euros per square metre of the former ministry has been established for the victims of the Homeland War. So we support this part and we hope that it will succeed in all that if a lot is built which is one logic that the price of a square meter is as low as possible. We are also pleased to have finally been told what has been achieved so far in this area. It is visible that there are 9806 apartments in total, but only 1023 were built, and these others are located in various stages. Especially this number of 4606 that means 46.97%, these are residential buildings in the construction phase, the contractors were not introduced into the business signed a contract on construction and supervision. Thus, it is visible and finally to get the real truth about all this. What is the very quality of these apartments we have also seen in many different TV contributions from Crikvenica and other areas and also here I have to say the fact that the truth is related and with the program of living care of the victims of the Homeland War, let us take an example of the Spanish South that should have long been over and how much I have heard about the 8th annex of the contract. So it was already from the basic contract of 7 annexes in a way that each annex according to what we have is worth 4 million kuna, now a new annex is being made because the moss was given to various companies that went bankrupt in the meantime, meaning failed and normically not complete construction until the end, and this was supposed to be done for another 2000, I think in 2001. And that way you get to the amount if each annex carries, say, 4 million, that's 32 million, so we have that whole building that we could make. Therefore, attention must also be paid. The HSP club has two amendments to the final bill itself. The first amendment concerns the value of Article 15(4), which is according to the final draft of the law, Article 7, we propose that in order to buy the situation with the payment to the buyer from the Homeland War and the buyer who has a family of three or more children, which is proposed in the text of the law itself, not having to, that customers do not have to provide financial resources as their own participation. I think that's the part where we can get volunteers out of the Homeland War. So these are Croatian defenders who participated in the Homeland War, so in the first period until January 15, 92, at least 4 months. So it's not that big a number, and I think it would be wise to make it possible for volunteers that we are, in our HSP programme. And I think HDZ has a part of it. The second amendment also refers to Article 20(2) of the law in force, i.e. Article 11 of the final proposal of the law. In fact, it was found in a valid law that the difference found in the pre-response and the final price of the purchase contract according to the present one could amount to 5%. The government has proposed 10% I think it's too high to bring it down to 7% because we're afraid that everyone will stick to that amount up to 10%, so it will become a rule. Obviously, it is obvious from the explanation that this must be corrected. But I don't think we should raise to 10%, but stay trying that 7%, and that way, uh, make it impossible because we know about all these things, there's always mixing. We also support this part to allow others to participate in these programmes as we already have the case, I think that Makarska is somewhere else to be done. So I think these amendments are acceptable and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12053	Thank you. It's SDP's turn. Dear Representative Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12054	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, Madam Ministers, on behalf of the SDP Club, may say that we support the amendment and addition of the Law on Social Encouragement Construction simply that no better way of resolving the housing issues of young people and those needed for such apartments has been proposed. But the more things change, the more they look. A colleague, Peru Kovacevic, of a law passed by this authority, and this reminds me of socially-oriented housing from a socialist period. Let's just say that's how the Dugaves were built. But since we know how apartments were built in socially-oriented housing and what are the consequences I think it is very important to stress what these forms of building apartments for a particular category of citizens can do. First of all, we believe that land is one of the most important permanent resources for society and development. In this way we force, forcing local communities to find land that will not exceed 30% of the standard value in the construction price. That's how we define who's going to live in those apartments. This creates social groups and settlements of the same social group. From the point of view of urbanism and from the social point of view, it's not acceptable. One more thing can finally be built from POS. It is indisputable among all of us that Croatia is not a crowded country and that this, this way of solving housing needs, is not the attack of the sub-sectoral zone. So let us not build more housing than urbanize and prepare land urbanly. Let's get the land ready, parcel it out, and let's give it to the families to build buildings. In this way we will make interested, interested future owners of these people create their own life where they will live. Your place to live. When it comes to the effects of housing like this, I must say that even the current POS Law, I do not think Article 7 provides for a communal standard that provides for other laws. This is another, you might say, the irresponsible attitude of society towards people who will live in these settlements, but the irresponsible attitude of society towards land as the most important resource. Now, my colleague Slavko Linic has quickly convinced me that the philosophy and formulation of Article 6. Proposal, 16, but Articles 6, 6. The proposal for a law binding units of local self-government to secure financial resources for accompanying facilities, the school the minister spoke of, convinced that it was a solution that other laws that treat that matter so foresee. I was convinced and now I'm publicly saying that some of these contents are funded by the state. I'm withdrawing the amendment right now, withdrawing the amendment. It is my own contribution to speed, but at the same time I believe that the law should legally ensure that, that it cannot be accessed to build these apartments especially if it is a multi-state facility or not give God a settlement without the means provided and that these buildings are not built at the same time. So we're going to make society a fairer, fairer construction and a more socially just residence in those areas. If my debate on behalf of the Club has moved me to think that socially stimulating housing is better quality for future owners of these apartments and houses, then I think that as a Club, we have contributed to making this law look better and building a better quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12055	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative, Leckie. On behalf of the HSS Club, the respected representative Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12056	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Social Encouragement Act was passed by the Parliament in December 2001. The aim of law-making was double; the activation of construction as a promoter of the entire economy and the development of the country in general and facilitating access to housing for citizens with smaller and medium incomes. It is indisputable that after 1990 construction recorded the recession that it speaks of and the fact that in the 1980s, more than 30,000 housing units were built in Croatia while only about 12,000 were built in the late 1990s and only about 1200 dwellings were sold annually. It can be noted from this data that the needs have fallen, it cannot be read that the needs of solving the housing problem of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have dropped. The apartments were overpriced goods on the market and significantly impoverished citizens with insecure jobs, very low and messy wages were not able to engage in the purchase of the apartment. By passing laws, access to apartments and meeting housing needs is greatly facilitated. With the joint funds of the state, units of local self-government and citizens, 1023 apartments were built and 1288 were built. Construction of 4606 apartments is contracted. Through the application of each law, this law will also point to the need for changes in order to better regulate relations and achieve better effects. During the application, the assumption is confirmed that the greatest needs for new apartments in large cities are the most difficult to provide free building land equipped with municipal infrastructure. However, where the highest needs of the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation are committed to selling a total of 206 apartments while all remaining apartments are located in smaller towns and municipalities where the problem of unsold apartments arises. It is obvious that for smaller cities, especially municipalities, a model must be found that would make local self-government units more acceptable to them. The current law regulates the rule of building apartments in several residential buildings. In Croatia, however, nearly two-thirds of the housing fund is made up of family homes, suggesting that it is a traditional way of living in our premises. Keeping in mind the tradition that should be respected and respected, bearing in mind the fact that there is a lack of free building land for several residential buildings, we evaluate a very useful equalisation of the rights of citizens who buy a ready apartment built under the provisions of the laws on socially encouraged housing and citizens who build or rebuild buildings and family houses, in order to meet housing needs. This further facilitates the availability of housing solutions. Despite these improvements in large cities, however, the greatest need remains. Why? because the great cities have become a promised country of all those who, regardless of their expertise and education, cannot find a job without income and are condemned to aimless wandering. In search of jobs and sources of income, citizens or more specifically young people leave their villages and smaller towns in Zagreb Split Rijeka or Osijek there become tenants. This data should be dramatic for the prime minister when and if one day at all designs a vision of Croatia's economic development. Croatia and its citizens cannot live only in 4 or 5 cities, and everything else comes down to a common denominator of vegetation. Croatia must develop equally economically, and only then, for example, will my sausage stay in his sausage to work in Slavonski Brod Novi Gradišac or Orjavac. He won't suffer from housing problems because his home is where he was born. Continuing economic development policy, only large cities of the state will face growing problems among which housing will be the least of the problems. We are looking at the proposed change according to which families with three and more children do not have to provide financial resources if they participate. Understanding works according to the current law, the customer of the apartment is obliged to ensure the ownitto participation, at least 15% of the pre-account value of the apartment. And if participation is not a great release of his ossugarnay families with three and more children is helping a family who, unfortunately, there are more and more desirable but unfortunately they are more and more few. So, as I said at the outset, the aim of lawmaking was to activate construction as a promoter of the entire economy. And if we don't have an analysis of the visited targets, the number of apartments built suggests the target hasn't been missed. A large number of workers have been engaged throughout the process, either receiving or retaining jobs. Another goal has been achieved, which is to facilitate access to housing for citizens with smaller and medium incomes. In addition to these two objectives at the time of the adoption of the law on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party's club, I have proposed a third goal and this is through this law to solve the problem of those who live in apartments owned by natural persons. These are tenants with protected tenant status, unfortunately our proposal has only been accepted partially. The problem still exists, and it's not as indecisive as it looks. And if the proposer has not touched this problem, we consider it necessary to point to him again and we will point to everything until there are two groups of dissatisfactions and also damages. One group of dissatisfactions and damages are the owners of dwellings or residential facilities, who have received solutions of similar content in due time, such as the solution of the 9.1. In 1949, the gentleman who reads it. The forced eviction of Puškas Milan with family and all items from the two-room apartment in Zagreb Daničićeva 54 is determined. In one room at his father's apartment in the same house in Zagreb, Daničićeva 54. The emigration will take place on 4.2.1949 at 8 p.m., and this will be carried out by a resident officer of 5 districts and a labor force on the load of Pushkas Milan. If the rooms mentioned above were closed for a period of time, they would be forced to open up and transfer the things of the perpetrator to his assigned rooms. The execution of this solution shall be entrusted to the officer of this department, Mr. Bark, with assistance of course, of the national militia. And so on. A solution without explanation but, therefore, at the bottom of the solution, it is inconsistencies that death is fascism and freedom for the people. There are dear fellow MPs, so the Puškas Milan family of them 4, Milan his wife and two daughters of two and a half and five years old, were left without an apartment and placed in one room of the maternity apartment. The Puškaš families were taken away from the apartment, but not from the property because it had just come from the obligation to pay the reserve for an apartment with a protected rent status of 449 kuna. The protected maximum wage pays a rent of 146 kuna and the Puškaš family pays an additional 300 kuna rent for the reserve of the apartment, in which the most powerful is protected. Of course he's full of bitterness, but he's a dissatisfied and unsatisfactory tenant who thinks it's his home and has the right to it. Takovic's apartments in Croatia are estimated to have about 3000. Let us find solutions to these problems so as not to be followed by the shadows of the past. That's possible with a little political will. Finally, the Croatian Peasant Party's club will support the proposed changes as more of our citizens are approaching the possibility of resolving the housing problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12057	Thank you, dear representative Lalic. On behalf of the club IDS the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12058	Dear Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary, members of the Government of fellow Members and fellow MPs. The IDSa club will support any improvement in the social housing law, especially if the same goes to those people who need it most as in this case families without a settled housing issue. Some cities in Istria, such as the city of Labin, recognized me as the positive old socially stimulating housing for such families at the outset. The building with 41 apartments is for the pleasure of all of us. However, the experiences we had with Pos led to the credit borrowing of the city in order to fulfil the assumed obligation to build municipal infrastructure. Incentive assets of states that co-operate with 25 per cent of the funds returned on a third loan meal from 16 to 31 years of age, in the construction itself, they return almost entirely for the first time. Thus, the share of the state in financing social incentive housing should relate to the financing of the municipal infrastructure with at least 50% of the value of the municipal contribution to the building in question, thus making the local self-government unit pay VAT in the construction of the municipal infrastructure. I would like to say that, in any case, the socially stimulating housing is in favour of the units of local self-government because it is also a legal obligation that units of local self-government, cities and municipalities build a building for their population. However, in all these things, state assistance is expected to have the same incentive for the unit of local self-government to go into the construction of such a building and not to be longer because of all these changes and additions to the Law on Social Encouragement from the garages that also enter parking spaces, to what is being corrected by these changes and additions, please the Minister of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning and Construction Ms. Marina Matulović-Dropulić to find the possibility of partially discharging the unit of local self-government on the burden of the state, and it refers to VAT as I have stated. Once again, the IDS club will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12059	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. It's the turn of the HNS club PGS's esteemed representative, Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12060	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, Your Honor, Madam Minister. Allow me, before this critical debate, to express my disagreement with the adoption of these amendments and the urgent procedure supplementing the proposal, because of the many shortcomings, indeterminateness and inadequacy of the applicant in the financial benefits that are just making sense to this model, and we propose that amendments to the Law on socially encouraged housing proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia be complemented by a proposal for amendments and addition of the same law, which was referred to in the procedure by the HNS and PGS. The need for an emergency procedure is unfortunately not justified by the fact that additional financial resources are available to implement this law until the next budget is adopted, and the promotion of the construction of family homes is fully covered by existing legislation. However, before commenting on some of the articles of this proposal, I would like to refer to the changes that have arisen in the concept of the model of encouraging housing. The 2001 Law on socially encouraged housing basically had a two-way goal, it enabled mostly young people to resolve existential housing issues, provide opportunities to buy apartments by accessible, kindly ask their colleagues to remember this term, by accessible conditions, by mutual activation of private and public funds, but which is equally important by generating construction especially in high-building as one of the most mobile and comprehensive segments of the economy which is rapidly and effectively directly reflected in the growth of gross social product, and thus directly to the standard of citizens. In the last year alone, high-building construction has affected the GDP's increase in cca 1%. Let me express my skepticism here that a positive trend in the growth of gross national income in the construction sector will begin if we focus public incentives on construction and reconstruction of so on. Upgrade and upgrade of buildings and family houses freely without controlled implementation programmes and within the framework of organised construction. Upgrades, construction and construction of family houses have been witnessing in Croatia for a number of years already, mostly in their own direction, regardless of whether or not they are working with or without a building permit. They are built by investors themselves or with the help of a semi-qualified workforce or with masters in the so-called ". "fusu" and then there is neither quality control nor compliance with all those obligations under the Construction Act that the investor has, and about paying taxes and obligations to the state not to talk. So once again, we silently support the gray zone, only now with socially encouraged resources. Inspectives and controls are not enough to deal with problems of illegal construction, so it is completely unnecessary to expect that they will deal with the legality of carrying out such construction without mentioning the talent of our citizens in the context of the transfer of these funds to some other material goods. We are in favour of decentralisation of a large number of functions from the state to the local level, but we are also concerned about the transparency, public and fairness of this system, and in particular about selecting priorities in the distribution of budgets. As this has shown experience in education and health care, and there is a need for selective access to the fact that many units of local self-government may be eager to make available to the budgetary resources of the Republic of Croatia deficit in professional staff, and nothing about the business and structure of non-profit legal persons in this proposal is more detailed. The mechanisms must first resuscitate, and until they collude in particular with regard to spatial plans, solving property legal relations and similar regulations that have not yet been fully adopted and easy at state level, such proposals are only demagogue character and have the sole aim of stopping, destroying and at the very least slowing down the process of solving housing problems in Croatia. What does this suggest for us to amend and supplement the POS Act? Equalising the rights of citizens who do not have a settled housing issue and buying apartments according to the provisions of POS and citizens who build their own apartment and build up or upgrade an existing inadequate apartment by size, all compared to the number of family members. The idea of setting up non-profit organisations such as APPN at the level of cities and municipalities to organise and build necessary apartments on their territory. Easier to solve housing problems for families with three and more children. Regulation, financing, construction and sale of garage or garage-parking sites, business premises for public purposes that are to be built as part of buildings or buildings according to spatial plans. Additional conditions where legal and natural persons authorised for land-owned construction operations, the criterion for determining the average price of an apartment within the building with respect to the legal maximum of 910 € per m2 of net useful area, an increase of 5 per cent from the pre-contract on the purchase of the apartment compared to the final purchase price and finally determining how to manage and use possibly unsold apartments. And now we can split the law by articles. In addition to Article 1, incentivising resources may be at the level of insufficient funds to build insufficient areas in relation to the number of proven members of the joint household. Confirmation of the state of issue of the competent authority of the municipality or of the city with proof of the building permit to build, upgrade or upgrade. This member is irrelevant and unnecessary, as the existing law encourages the construction and reconstruction of buildings and family houses by way of an article already in force in the 30th law. In addition to Article 7, unfortunately, we must conclude that it is just a little cheap demagogy, i.e. families with three or more children should not pay for participation. The proposal sounds like a convenience, but a simpler financial calculation shows a disadvantage, because if the customer does not provide its own participation, that part is secured by the bank. In that case, the average interest per 30-year repayment period increases depending on the price and structure of the apartment's financing from 4% per year to as much as 6.2% per year. The lower the public funds, the higher the average interest. More bank money, less public funds. Which means that the interest rate is 30 years from 72% of the principal by 4% of the interest rises to as much as 120%. The buyer who had the benefit of not paying for the participation after 30 years paid the interest amount cca 60% more than the one who paid for that participation. Is that a convenience? Obviously, the promoter was not familiar with the financial calculations and the essence of the model when this non-payment of participation may be considered as a special convenience. This violates the principle that everyone has to pay for their apartment a 15% stake, noting that this is property property property, which is nowhere in a social category, in any country. This raises the question of equality of other categories of citizens and thus basically cancels the basic benefits of POS because it is no longer cca 4% but 6 or more so housing savings and banks are starting to compete. Given this light on, I might have gone over to the back, wouldn't have elaborated these other articles because it's quite a long elaborate, but maybe just one note. The Authority shall sell the apartment at market price, that is, Article 13. 6 months since the start of construction, but which cannot be lower than the price determined by law. It is questionable what price is set by law? It is a price that covers all costs and now under the current law cannot be higher than 910 euros. But the proposal to amend the law is an average price, so there is essentially neither the highest nor the lowest price to which you can attach. The question is, what is the market price when an investor can't sell an apartment first to cover the costs, and what if he can't sell at that price? There are favourable payment options, and the price is a completely different question. Also, unless the apartments and the rest are sold under the conditions laid down in this Act, the Republic of Croatia will also apply to the management of the Central State Property Management Office. Legally completely wrong. It is not possible for the Republic of Croatia to give up apartments because the owner of real estate and investor, or agency that is first registered in land books, is not the Republic of Croatia as a legal person. The Agency shall act on its behalf for the account of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the Act and the Regulation establishing the APPN. Furthermore, as a domestic legal person, the Republic of Croatia has been able to buy an apartment or business space on the basis of a decision by the Government, under the same conditions of payment and with the obligation to pay for participation as well as any other domestic legal person, but has not been provided with part of the public funds...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12061	I, a second, a second to warn you. The time is wrong, you've got five minutes left.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12062	Thank you very much. Then I'll go back to the beginning. That means I used half the time, right? Okay. In this respect, Article 6 is added to the new Article 10, which is prescribed by a non-profit legal person. It does not show what its legal status is, whether it is an institution which is the way of business a matter of obtaining, directing profits, control of financing, establishment. The question of the business guarantee and the security of the implementation of the project is raised. Who founded it, who vouches for the business of that non-profit legal person? For APPN guarantees a solidarity and unlimited government of the Republic of Croatia. This is how it comes from the Regulation. Who will coordinate the distribution of incentives from the state budget and give consent to the purchase of land if they do not have municipalities and cities to build it. How much time will it take, and how many administrations at the level of all local administration units, will be hired to determine the families that have neither solved the housing problem nor the same partial solution, so that they enter the upgrades in order to allocate funds from the budget for the release of the participation in the purchase of apartments and how much does this ultimately cost? Really quite vague and undefined. Garages and garage parking spaces, which according to the spatial plan, make up the building with the building in which the apartment is located. The property law knows the property, and the buyer purchases a co-owner's share of the property which is connected to a specific part of the property which makes up an independent use of the property, and a special part may have a belonging. This is a 1992 formulation from the Law on the sale of dwellings in which there was a household law, but then there was still no Law on ownership and other real rights, which entered 1.1.97. And so neither does the principle of unity of real estate. Legally speaking, whether parking spaces can be sold and part of the garages resulting from the commitment of urbanism to meet the traffic in peace because just as all the buyers of the apartments through the municipal contribution financed the construction of these facilities, so as such, they are all and the owners of these areas. The legal dilemma is whether it is necessary to use incentive funds on plots alongside residential buildings despite the payment of a municipal contribution to construction of insufficient parking spaces, and certainly that the final decision can be made following the insight into the programme of measures for municipal equipment with the amount of costs to build the total necessary parking spaces. Article 8(3), if the spatial plan provides for the construction of a business space, public purposes, shall be provided by the unit of local administration. Why just the local self-government unit? Which is why it could not be provided by anyone who is interested in these facilities, and who is in principle funding healthcare, education, culture and others. The construction of the business space of public intention should be organised by the city or municipalities, whether it finance personal funds, provided it proves before the start of construction that the dynamics of payment, the volume of works carried out, are secured, whether the contractual financing is entrusted to a legal or physical person by the model "public private partnership". This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Construction without a public tender with some restrictions. The regulation states that local administration units must establish housing needs and no longer de facto decides the investor. The unit of the local administration thus conditiones the investor whether he will build and give the job to, unsurpassed and unacceptable. If the local administration unit doesn't have land, what if it's not there or it won't get it? But what is very important and unacceptable, the financing of connections and municipal infrastructures must only be provided by local administration units. No more funding secured in a way, in an appropriate way as it stands in the current law. And even those funds can't even be provided by the Agency through banks under favourable conditions, if the bank is interested. Nor can it possibly be financed by the contractor myself or by the buyers of apartments or others despite the fact that customers are willing to pay all of this through the price of the apartment in the model, just to get to that apartment. This is in a certain way even contrary to the Law on the municipal economy where the payment of connections, work and spent material and fees on the investor, and it is also possible to regulate the municipal infrastructure of the units of local administration by providing the investor with a communal contribution instead of paying the municipal contribution to the local administration unit. A comment on the financing of the business space of public purpose has been given earlier. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The proposal for a law on housing prices on the first and second floors will be higher than the price of the apartment on the ground floor or, for example, on the last floor, but the average for the building cannot be higher than 910 euros. Net surface area of the apartment in the building. The highest square metre price on the first floor should not be higher than 20% of the Ethlon price or 1092 euros per meter of square and net surface. In principle, this decision would be fine, but the substance and concept of setting the border of a so-called, expensive apartment has been violated. So everyone knows the price can't be higher than a certain limited amount. At the highest average price, the average highest price of the apartment in practice could theoretically mean that one apartment could cost 700 euros and the other in the same building a thousand 120 euros. So again, the average is 910. Who will now know the prices of apartments in the building and how much the average price of the apartment is, very non-transparent. In particular, taking into account the new Article 13(1), which determines that after 6 months, if not all apartments are sold, the Agency sells apartments at market price. The question arises whether this market price enters into the calculation of the average price of the apartment? The applicant mixes the price of capital and the price of the product, and what is the market price to be determined urgently and no one wants to buy the property? Is there going to be an assessment of the experts for each apartment, the real estate that needs to be sold as soon as possible and the construction of the financial structure? Like any over-investor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12063	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative of the Chichin-Shain basket. In the name of the promoter, Minister Matulović-Dropulić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12064	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, just a few words about the clubs so far. We think we'll accept these amendments that the HSP has proposed and given us. As for Mr. Leca on behalf of the SDP club, I think he supported it, and he said that nothing new was planned, I'm sorry that we couldn't predict anything new, but you know when you make a commitment of a billion and 700 million that should be done because all contracts with contractors were signed then it's simply impossible to suggest something new. But be sure before we finish these apartments, we will surely propose some new solutions. Ms. Lalić is right about protected tenants but we are also the owner, we are now working on a specific proposal, it is not easy to resolve, because there are conflicting interests of those who are in apartments and those who are owners. We will try to find the best possible solution and propose it. Mr. Poirot was talking about helping the state. MI, the state will also give 175 euros per square second to the agency forming either a non-profit organisation at the city or municipality level. As for Mrs Chichin-Shain's speech on behalf of the CNS, what is probably most surprising is that I can now suddenly propose to amend the law without two and a half years of that amendment to the law. In addition, when we were passing the Law on Encouragement, and when we talked about proposals, nothing defacted of our proposals was going to be accepted because it was thought to be the only real solution. Today it turned out that this was not the right solution, that there was only one reason why the Law was passed, that one goal was achieved, and that was that the builders still had work to do, but whether people were buying under the most favourable conditions of these apartments is a big question. And the Law was not passed to hire builders, but to resolve the issue of housing. As for the agencies and the decentralisation of the law, why we're always demeaning local self-government units. I claim that great cities and some small cities have very capable people that can organise this construction without any problem, and as far as who will be responsible for this agency, exactly the same as the state, if the state has founded the APN then the unit, and it is responsible for its work, will then do the same hostage and city or municipality because it is responsible for what it founded, therefore, that is why we are talking about a non-profit organisation. However, and it's really strange that these people couldn't do the job, but this ministry that's been doing this job so far hasn't trained APN that either they or those at the state level to do all the work, because the same time an agreement has been made between APN and the Ministry that the Ministry is doing all those interesting works, which are contracting designs, designing projects, contracting surveillance, contracting works, calling competitions and all that. Why didn't the APN do all of this, which by law was determined to do so, but someone who was a legislator, or this Parliament wanted the Ministry to do so, would say in law that it was done by the Ministry and not the APN. So these are things we need to trust more people at a lower level. About demagogy and three and more children, I ask you, I know that the fact is that these people are going to pay a little more interest, that's a fact, but for a two-room apartment of 60 square meters, those people have to secure their own participation of 8200 euros, very few of them have such a participation, and if there is no need to take a loan from a bank for a completely different interest, then it's a big question that's more favourable. We think it's more favourable but no one makes it possible by this law for those families who have three and more children to pay their participation if they can and if they want to, therefore, we're just giving them the opportunity to get rid of it in this way. Now I'm just gonna say something about the garage. So far, only one facility has been created that has been a problem with the garages under the building. And you know what happened then, our Real Estate Legal Agency sold these garages and business premises to the Congoi, and we know whose company did the work on that facility, and then they gave these works to the subcontractor, and at what prices and how she sold it to the Congo to them on the market and the garage instead of giving them to those people, it's a big question and we don't have any knowledge of it because we can't have it. And this APN sold that Congo one garage for 6,000 euros. So I think this is a much fairer way and a much better way for people who live in these apartments who solve housing problems and buy these garages and not to buy it for anyone and then open up a business space or something like that there and we don't have garages again. And as for Article 18 and the ambiguity, I will just say that in Varazdin a short time ago the land was bought also from that same company and another one for 68 euros per metre of square land, therefore, I think more discussions should not be about that being all clear and that we simply think that we have proposed a fairer and better Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12065	I thank Minister Matulović-Dropulic. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, respected representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12066	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Madam Minister. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of this Act and I will try to explain on behalf of our Club the views we have been taking on board in making such a decision. For us the apartment is a existential need of every man, the right to an apartment is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the provisions of Article 132. The constitution of affairs relating to the arrangement of settlements and the construction of apartments in jurisdiction is the unit of local self-government. In addition, the state has a final responsibility to address the housing needs of all citizens, of course by passing certain laws and by creating conditions in which this can be achieved in practice. The war aggression against the Republic of Croatia has resulted in more than 14% of damaged or destroyed housing funds, with huge human casualties and material damage. Over the past decade, the state priority in housing policy has been the reconstruction of a destroyed housing fund spent on huge funds. According to data from the State Statistics Institute in 1990, 18 thousand 596stan were built, and since then, the number of apartments built annually, not counting the renovation, is constantly on the decline, so that in 2001, only 3 thousand 220 apartments were built. At the same time, citizens who needed an apartment, who were not related to the renovation or who could not have resolved their housing issue independently by buying or building an apartment, were unable to resolve the issue. Credits for the purchase or construction of the bank's flats were approved on short deadlines with high interest rates. The offer of apartments on the market was modest. The apartments that were sold were very expensive, most citizens could not build or buy an apartment under these circumstances. In order to encourage housing and create preconditions for citizens and units of local self-government to buy or build an apartment, the Government proposed to the Parliament, and the Parliament passed the Law on Housing Savings, Encouraging Housing Savings, the Law on the Long-term Finance Fund of Residential Construction, with the incentive of the state in 1997. Therefore, this is not the only law that could be dealt with in a more appropriate way. But now we'll see what happened to that law. Today, we can safely claim that great success has been achieved in implementing the House Savings Act. At the end of 2000, citizens were saved 400 million kuna in banks. With such savings it is possible to obtain favourable loans for the construction or purchase of apartments with small interest and payment deadlines from 10 to 30 years. In the implementation of the Law on a long-term financing fund for housing with the support of the State, the objectives set have not been achieved. According to the State budget for 1999, an amount of EUR 150 million was provided and HBOR provided for the next 200 million on behalf of the Investment Fund for long-term financing of housing with the Bank, so 350 million kunas were available for lending to address the housing needs of certain categories of citizens and units of local self-government. Young families had only the advantage. Nothing else, just an advantage. According to the Regulation, credit assets are allocated by county to a relative number of residents, and the fund has granted and paid citizens 1228 housing loans through the basis of a public tender. Unfortunately, implementation of the law, the government suspended in 2000. The consequences resulting from this were borne only by citizens who needed the apartment. A programme of socially stimulating housing was adopted in July 2000. And the Law on long-term encouraging housing in December 2001. The law regulates the rule of building apartments in several residential buildings, encouraging public funds. The implementation of the law programme over the past three years has built 1023 apartments or every year 41 apartments. So three years of 1023 apartments, every year 341 apartments. Such a scale of construction is not enough even to meet the needs of socially endangered citizens in the city of Zagreb annually, and in the country not to speak. The quality shift was only made in 2003. As stated by the minister, 1288 apartments are currently under construction. Construction of the next 4000 606 apartments is contracted. It is very questionable because the performers were not introduced into the business for reasons that no ownership and other necessary documentation for the construction of these facilities was arranged. The biggest needs for building new apartments are shown in major cities where it is most difficult to secure free building land equipped with municipal infrastructure. Far fewer needs have been expressed in other cities and settlements, and there are units of local self-government that have shown no interest in such a way as to address the housing needs of their inhabitants. The implementation of the law has identified a number of difficulties arising from the inability of the local self-government unit to secure a regulated building land for the construction of apartments in several residential buildings, and to establish within the appropriate period the order of the championship by which the agency sells to the citizens of the apartments. Of these 1200 apartments built, they are mostly designed, built during 2003 large apartments with garages and other facilities that citizens cannot buy. The issue of financing business spaces for various purposes built in a residential building has been unresolved, and construction is conditioned by spatial plans. The largest number of our citizens solve their living needs in a traditional way, by building new or reconstructing and upgrading existing houses. In the implementation of the Law...the program of building apartments of the agency, the apartments built exclusively in multi-state buildings and mostly in large cities. So most of the population has not had the opportunity to solve their residential construction through these programs. Citizens who built a new or reconstructed existing residential building could neither achieve state support nor obtain incentives. The specific issue is defined by the Law that the design and construction of apartments is exclusively in the jurisdiction of the State through the Agency. This provision denied the constitution guaranteeed the right of units of local self-government to carry out their own housing with the help of the state in order to organise housing and houses through their own agencies. Therefore, the proposal to amend and supplement this law regulates all these issues in such a way as to enable units of local self-government to have their own non-profit organisations operating under the same conditions as the Agency for the purpose of building apartments under this law. All rights of citizens who buy a ready-made apartment according to the provisions of this law and citizens who are building a new or reconstructing an existing family house are equalized. The average price of the apartment per square metre of the building is determined, it facilitates family housing with three and more children, freeing the insurance of financial resources as its own participation. A way of financing the construction and sale of apartments on the market, garages, business premises and business premises of public purposes is being arranged. and ultimately, the management and use of unsold apartments, garages and business spaces built under the conditions laid down in this law is arranged in such a way that it is subject to the management of the central state property management office, which we consider to be a very high quality solution. Let me finally point out that these amendments to the Law will in a good way regulate issues that improve the situation in this area and speed up the process of housing the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and the units of local self-government will be able to participate more actively in resolving the housing issues of citizens living in its area. We therefore propose that this law be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12067	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative of Shirtz. For correcting the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Košisa Chicin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12068	Your Honor, Mr. Shirac has made a mistake, and he wrongly alleged it when he said that the contractors were not introduced to work for reasons that no property relations were solved on land. I would like to say for 2 thousand 725 apartments and 60 objects in the Zagreb village of Sesveta, the procedures were all completed, everything was in the process of obtaining a building permit, all consent was obtained, the land is completely cleanly owned by the unit of local administration and there are no obstacles to moving and introducing a contractor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12069	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. We've exhausted the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. The word has a respected representative, Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12070	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister! 300 unsold apartments are a good indicator that the construction of work did not go selectively, that it was not often well prepared but was sometimes self-inflicted. In this proposal, a particularly interesting incentive is to build, upgrade and upgrade family houses that promotes housing in small areas or reduces immigration in overcrowded urban areas, such as now the Spanish Farm of Sesveta and the like. The planning of kindergartens, infirmarys and schools in such construction is nevertheless an exception, not a rule in Croatia, therefore only they can, it is mostly in these largest environments and it is good that the costs are not transferred to funds intended for POS and the worst option would be to go into the price of the apartment and it is also normal to build units of local self-government, clearly if they agree to such a mammoth of settlements. It is good that incentives are also provided for underground garages if they have to be built because in that case, the tenants will surely go to the purchase of such garages. Unfortunately, I think the ministry was left with too little room for maneuvers because it was limited by a large number of contracted apartments mostly in 2003, for which contracts with contractors were signed and for quite those apartments it was not a day-to-day land, let alone a building permit, yet above all the Sesveda farm, which is legally and particularly morally questionable. In this regard, it is particularly interesting that we had cases where companies of the same owner prepared tender documentation and jobs were assigned to sister companies of the same owner. I believe that it will never happen again and that we will finally build apartments for those who are intended under the conditions that are best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12071	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative Markovanovic. It's Rade Ivas's honorary representative. He's not in the assembly, he's losing his word. It is up to the respected representative Jelena Pavicic-Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12072	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs! I have carefully read this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Socially Encouraged Housebuilding and, in fact, I consider it necessary to underline some in my opinion the shortcomings of the Government's proposal. Among other things, the law enables independent construction and reconstruction. Upgrade and upgrade of buildings and family houses so the text actually reminds me of the regulations related to housing savings otherwise a very popular form today of saving citizens, so such a savings bank is a fact that my one-year-old daughter also has a reminder of the text of the reasoning of the reliefs in our tax system where I remember up to 12,000 kuna a year the taxpayer is exempt from the part of the tax paid for each adaptation, purchase and construction of his own housing unit. This legislative proposal provides for the establishment of non-profit legal persons who, within the framework of individual units of local self-government, would carry out tasks that have so far been in jurisdiction exclusively of the Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation Agency. In fact, the state transfers part of its powers to local self-government units so that it can decide on better quality care of its citizens and in fact budgetally not following the financial needs of this type of decentralisation blocks further housing. Because if the legislator, i.e. The government believes that the implementation of this law will not require the provision of additional funding in the state budget because these funds are allegedly envisaged but the government did not aliminate them on units of local self-government at the time without such redistribution there is not enough resources to encourage housing in local budgets. This law was simply meant to go into a package with the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. I'm saying this for a very simple reason. In fact, in Article 8, which speaks of a new article 16a. In fact, paragraph 3 is quite the opposite of the spirit of the existing law, which provides for the construction of a business space for public purposes, so schools, kindergartens, libraries, infirmarys, post office etc. and the funds of the budget of the units of local self-government in whose area and the housing of the socially encouraged housing programme are built. Now that I've exposed all of this, it's quite clear that the local self-government unit that should have provided only construction land and municipal infrastructure and connections now suddenly has to provide additional social standard facilities according to the planned urban plans and without providing additional budgetary resources. Therefore, I was so free to propose a single amendment with my colleague Mršić, which is to take that item 3 in Article 16a. Delete. With these two proposed changes, thus extending the right to build and build family houses and building social standards of money from the local budget has been completely damaged and even abandoned so far the concept of building apartments from the POS programme. Are we even aware that the local environments under these conditions will not be able to further build and provide housing? Are we even aware that today there are 8000 783 apartments in the building, according to the government’s reasoning, and that there are many more families who would be happy to solve their housing problem. This proposal, unfortunately, also undoes a good social measure that has been found under the same umbrella, which is that families with three and more children are released from now on with a mandatory 15% participation. I think it might be fairer for citizens to simply tell them that they are abandoning the current model of POS and that they continue to resolve their housing issue as they know it and as they can, I really think that would be fair. Madam Minister, you yourself have concluded that the main area of housing is in urban areas, in fact large cities, but most of all in Zagreb. Zagreb and Croatia thus become the big head of the small body and we all agree that Croatia needs regional even development above all. It is simply that this bill does not favour such moderate and even regional development. Unfortunately, this government does not offer a development programme because all of these smaller local environments because of the inability to build accompanying buildings will leave this form of housing. Unfortunately, we did not offer an alternative to the citizens, and all of this is actually making me even more firm in my belief that this law was written solely for the sake of the city of Zagreb and the fear of the Ministry of this government that it will not be able to finance the construction of objects of social interest, therefore, all mentioned in Article 16a(3), kindergarten, school, infirmary, post office, everything that is actually provided for in the detailed plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12073	I would like to thank the esteemed representative of Pavicic-Vukicevic. On behalf of the promoter, there is Minister Matulović-Dropulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12074	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I don't really understand that someone can't read the law the way he writes. As far as public purposes are concerned, it is only the unit of local self-government that determines whether something will be predicted, whether something will be built or not. If a building facility is built, there is no reason for children's kindergarten to be done in the building. But if the local self-government unit decides that's where they want to build a kindergarten, then even those people who buy apartments can't pay for that kindergarten and neither can the state fund it. And there's a lasting problem that so far in the law has not been established at all. And if not new settlements had been built, but if they had been built, as these two go, Spain, Sesvete and down Brodarica, it probably would not have been such problems. Because there's no reason to build in residential buildings unless they're huge, mastodons don't build and stuff like this. So we see no reason why the local self-government unit has to build what it didn't normally build in its own area, unless it is drawn in that detailed plan. Neither the state brings her spatial plans nor anyone else. I also once told the lower-level agency that the government would encourage the construction of these apartments. And regionally, I'm sure it wasn't disrupted. We have obligations, dear Mrs Chichin-Shain, for four years. Therefore, if you have determined all the expensive regional distribution it will be provided. Because all those apartments that are scheduled, all those contracts that have been made will be built. Whether it will be in the Sesvets or elsewhere, it is a big question, but it will be decided by the city of Zagreb and it is no law that gives the city of Zagreb some more power and some greater rights than it gives to others. The fact that no one has thought about what they're going to find in a settlement to build a complete municipal infrastructure, bring new roads, make all these facilities of social standard that we call them that's not our problem anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12075	I thank the honourable MPs, Article 209 reads: "A representative can correct an incorrect quote only once and at a basic exposition!" So you have no right to correct an incorrect assumption. The next word came from a respected representative, Ivica Clem. He's not in the assembly, he's losing his right to debate. And as the last respected representative of the Chichin-Shain basket. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12076	I thank you again for the opportunity to talk about this problem. I was pleasantly surprised by the discussion of my colleague, MP Vukicevic, and I must admit that I agree greatly with her, her discussion, her debate. In fact, what Mrs. Secretary was talking about is the truth that building objects of social standard so-called social standards is being built. facilities of social standard that are bound to settlements, to larger settlements. But I also have to find that by pushing buildings into the existing urban middle, we won't have solved kindergartens and of course children from these buildings like Vrbani, etc., we also need to attend some kindergartens and some schools, simply the existing capacities we'll have to increase. So in both cases, we have a problem building social infrastructure in one case and the other. What I would say here again, I might just repeat that this change that applies to these upgrades and upgrades to what I said at first is a grey zone, a gray zone of economy, I don't think there will be, there won't be any incentives, there won't be development in the sphere of the economy in the field of construction, there'll be no oragnising of construction, there'll be construction in fusing, there'll be construction with a built permit, but without quality control. That's something I'm warning you about anyway. What I haven't been able to say is now this thesis that apartments in business areas must be sold, financial construction must be closed and apartments given to the Republic of Croatia free of charge. I don't think they can be given, I think a financial structure should be closed and cannot be administered to the management of the Republic of Croatia. As for the promotion of works, it is essentially undefined in Article 16 and could have been done much to encourage family homes in organised programs so far. The proposal dropped a provision, now it exists that no VAT is paid on interest on public funds. Which means the agency gives in to anyone's assets and gets them back with interest, they have to pay VAT on that interest. We would like to get to know the proposings this way that only banks and savings banks do not pay VAT on interest while other legal persons have to pay VAT because the interest is considered to be newly realised. Perhaps just one more thing, what perhaps hurts the most, and what in the far line and colleague Vukicevic brought out here indirectly in Article 17 provides that the proceedings will begin according to the old law as a new one. What does that mean? What kind of procedures? There are valid contracts resulting from the rights and obligations of the parties contracted and cannot now be derrogated by law. Totally unwarranted. I would like to draw your attention to the respected MPs regarding the new Article 16a) paragraph 3 as regards the financing of schools, hospitals and kindergartens, we are only talking about settlements that only JLS must finance them, not at all, the principle of law is that a law that is most favourable to the party regarding transitional provisions and procedures is applied, there are no administrative procedures here but there are contracts. And in conclusion, the proposal to amend and supplement this law is still confusing, it is unclear, it is inconclusive and at the very least requires further work. But these are mostly cosmetic changes anyway, what's essential here is that there's no other way to stop one huge effort, the cost that's been invested to design, to project, to prepare, to start and to start building at 10,000 apartments. From that practically, 1300 apartments were realized to this day. There is no courage to tell citizens, but the project is stopped by changes in the law, and that is more retroactively on the projects that have already been launched. These citizens are directly playing your trust. Thank you, Lipeppo.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12077	Thank you, thank you, Your Honor. For the replica of the presentation of MPs Chichin-Shain. Dear Representative Pavicz, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12078	Thank you very much. Here, actually I'd just like to add I think Mrs. Koshasha Chichin-Shain has failed to say. Local self-government units are required to secure construction land and municipal land, bring municipal infrastructure, secure the connection. We all know the correspondence between the competent ministry and the city of Zagreb, and we all know very well that in this transcript it is precisely a question of who will build the accompanying facilities? This is the answer to who will build the following facilities in the city of Zagreb, on the pig farm, I am talking about the work of the Sesveta, and it actually just confirms my thesis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12079	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Matulović-Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12080	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry that only one club actually didn't support this amendment and the addition of the law because, I suppose it's normal, but I think we really suggested what's better. I'm not saying it's great, but we couldn't, uh, suggest anything else. I'd just like to say a few more words about these last discussions. You know, by pushing the city, that means building individual buildings in existing settlements is certainly more optimal than building a whole new settlement where it shouldn't be and where it's in the middle of an economic zone, not to mention on a pig farm, which is all questionable than now that this hour builders are looking for additional prices because you didn't investigate the foundation when you started to build. So there's everything and everything. Yes, when the city of Zagreb, if Mrs Vukicevic mentions the city of Zagreb, built any facilities of social standard, built them out of his tax and cut. No facility since primary school, kindergarten or the like has been funded by the state in the city of Zagreb. Therefore, the citizens of the city of Zagreb paid all of this, and the fact is that when it comes to having many more of these facilities and that increasing the number of inhabitants will also need to increase this, too, these and kindergartens and schools and build new schools and so on, but it cannot build a state. Neither is the state required by law nor is the city of Zagreb that has no money for it, but such an unthinkable project as the Sesvete is certainly not right. However, regardless of all this, if the city of Zagreb decides to finance its, municipal infrastructure and accompanying facilities, Croatia will build this because as Mrs Alenka Chicin-Shain said, we, the fact is that contracts are concluded, contracts are concluded, contracts are made, contracts are made and contracts are to be executed. But was it smart and whether it was good three months, 10th, 11th and 12th months last year to arrange for a billion and 700 million kuna construction and leave it to someone else to do it in this way on your own, on your soul. I'm just saying we'll do it and we won't stop POS. If POS continues to be people interested in POS will continue to work after we or by extending our Government, this POS, POS will work, but there are other opportunities and other options will be made. Because we have to propose a special law because social welfare is where it is today, there's no possibility. After cities provide municipal infrastructure and give land for both POS and victims of the Homeland War, they clearly do not have the opportunity to finance the construction of their social or rental apartments that has the whole, whole Europe. As far as one more project is concerned, the project is so designed that the apartments are an average size of 80 square meters. It gave the designers a chance because why? Because the rulebook that was supposed to be passed for two and a half years wasn't passed. And there's no regulation to design by. There's an internal rule that the projectors got into their hands, but what, they could do whatever they wanted. They built apartments where people come to beg us with their hands closed that they needed a two-room apartment of 60 square meters, and they had people build apartments, designed 80 square meters. Or close the grand financial structure. How can the state plant a financial structure if from 68 apartments in one location, you can sell 20 in one building and 48 remains unsold. Who's that, maybe there are some pearls that can close the financial structure that way, but we're not you. We're real people who know they can't do that. Therefore, there is no reason not to help Sisak in this case this Croatian state to get them and, and to rent their apartments in social cases or the victims of the Homeland War. It's much better than what we've done so far, or what you've been doing so far, which is that the apartments have been kept, that we've paid 30 thousand kuna every month to keep those apartments and, and what's more? When no one's gonna buy those apartments. So believe that we understand each other in construction. We tried to make people the best of it. If someone is protecting local self-government units, then I'm certainly the one who's trying to protect the maximum units of local self-government. So we'll do everything we can to build houses where it's justified and local self-government units don't have to invest additionally if that's not necessary, but also to give them the opportunity to decide where they want to build themselves, what apartments they want to build, and the state will subsidize them. Because no one knows better the needs of citizens than those who live with them. Thank you very much. ... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12081	I thank Minister Matulović-Dropulic. This concludes the debate on this agenda point and ends today's session with this point. It's 9:30 tomorrow. We begin with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry. Proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the proposal of the HSS Club, a united debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12082	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Encouragement, Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 106. The debate on the text of the law is divided, completed. The specific table with the amendments submitted has been shared with the representatives. Please submit to Marina Matulović-Dropulić, Minister for Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning, to show about the proposed amendments. Here you go. Amendment number one of the representatives of Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12083	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12084	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2 to the HNS and PGS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12085	It is not accepted because I think it is much better that units of local self-government organise their non-profit organisations or agencies and thus encourage even better housing. We don't accept that only the State Agency is building apartments in stimulating housing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12086	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the PGS's respected representative. Here's Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12087	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister. As for the amendments which delete Articles 3, 4, 5 and 6 I would just like to add that we advocate that APN be as if, to remain, it simply remains a suspiciously non-profit legal person established at the level of units of local self-government. I have to add that the model for the promotion of housing in the world is known in general, so that more resources are connected by one project holder and I must admit that the issue of guarantee, i.e. guarantees for the implementation of the stated objective and the provision of the funds invested is questionable. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12088	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 3. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12089	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12090	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 4 HNS, PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12091	It's unacceptable. Public content, which is determined by a detailed plan to work, means that the local self-government unit determines that it will be built in a particular building, we believe that a unit of local self-government, not the state or people who buy apartments there, should be financed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12092	Dear colleague Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12093	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister. We have asked for the erasure of this amendment under Article 8 because we believe it is not good for the only unit of local self-government to be able to ensure the construction of schools, kindergartens and other social infrastructure facilities, but we consider why these issues and these resources could not be integrated from other sources, including citizens, banks, state and local authorities. Therefore, I would ask that we also have a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12094	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5, Agent Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12095	Not accepted, same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12096	He's gone. We have to vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 6th Representative Jelena Pavicic-Vukicevic and Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12097	It's unacceptable. Same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12098	Comrade Mršić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12099	And we might even be able to give up on this, if it were more specific. All they say is they secure local self-government units. We also explained on the board that local self-government does not build for example hospitals and high schools. If it were said to be done by the founders, perhaps the institution would be more precise, but here it is really binding for municipalities and cities to build what they are not founders, that's one thing. And secondly, maybe to introduce that someone has to build it without being from POS funds, private or I don't know any third party, as business spaces are being built. But I think this law is contrary to other laws that define who is the founder and investor in joint institutions, so hospitals, schools, kindergartens. A municipality that is not the founder of the school cannot invest in the construction of the school. So here I am looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12100	... Amendment. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]] Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. 7th Amendment of Representative Mate Brletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12101	It's unacceptable. For the reason that the building permit has already defined everything, and we can't when buying parcels, because it's important to have a location permit and plan of arrangement, not to have a building permit, because the business rule determines both what apartments and how many squares.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12102	A fellow Brletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12103	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12104	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 8. HNS representative club, PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12105	It's unacceptable. We think our proposal is better and clearer. And this proposal would be a return to the existing POS Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12106	She's a colleague of Alenka's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12107	I thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister. We asked to delete this proposal, because we believe that units of local self-government are not similar to that of legal and physical persons that determine that the interest in buying neither they have to determine the needs nor the financing of municipal infrastructure, do not have to be determined solely and only by them. So let me express my disdain about it, and I believe that this will lead to an important setback in the implementation of this programme. Thank you. Please, I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12108	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Nine. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12109	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12110	It becomes an integral part of the law. Ten. HNS representative's club, PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12111	It's unacceptable. In fact, we have proposed here in the law that where apartments cannot be sold to surrender, that the agency teaches apartments to the state administration of real estate, the central state office, and that they agree with local self-government units whether they will give those funds, means that these apartments will be given to the welfare, whether they will rent them to the victims of the Homeland War or so. For that reason, because the worst possible option is that apartments remain empty, that they should be kept and that no one can move them in. And as for the HNS and PGS proposal that the state should buy these apartments from the agency, we cannot agree, as the law said that the Republic of Croatia provides funds from the state budget for the construction of apartments in part, that from, it must provide a reserve fund for those apartments that cannot be sold that the building can be completed. It is therefore entirely illogical for the state to pay for the completion of the construction of these apartments, and after it has to buy them again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12112	A colleague of Alenka Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12113	Thank you. In a legal sense, I think this is very questionable, because unless the garage apartments are sold under the terms of this law, the Republic of Croatia will also apply to the management of the central property management office, as stated in your article. Namely, the owner is a real-estate investor, i.e. an agency that is legally registered in land books, which is not the Republic of Croatia as a legal person. This agency is operating on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, as a domestic legal person, the Republic of Croatia has been able to buy an apartment or business space, based on the government's decision, under the same conditions of payment and with the mandatory payment of participation as for all other domestic legal entities. However, part of the public funds provided by the Republic of Croatia are recognised as a paid part of the price. And what is already set out in the current Article 15 paragraph 3 of the Law. All pay for participation, funds for construction are provided from multiple sources, which is important to mention here, so apartments and business premises must be sold to close the financial construction of construction and could not be made available for free of charge, i.e. neither to the state nor to the other person. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12114	Who is for this amendment, which the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, with 87 votes for and 11 against the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Social Encouragement in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12115	Mr. President, I don't know if you've read this morning we got into the club's program for tomorrow's session of the Croatian Parliament, so there are several fundamental mistakes that should fix it. The arrival of the Secretary-General of the Croatian Parliament is announced and we did not have such a function. And this music program, if it wasn't too late to change something, would have been announced by the Illyrian wake Even more Croatia has failed. On that occasion, perhaps something more concrete should be done in the Croatian Parliament, I would suggest two things. To perform perhaps the European Anthem, put on a European flag and launch a final electronic vote. So this solemn element of the session has an essential element.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12116	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session's work. Please, Agent Letica. Thank you very much for the suggestions. We'll talk about it. We'll take them into consideration. So we're going to - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on state support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 105; - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on state support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry, first reading, P.Z. No. 65; Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HSS; the Government's proposal is an emergency procedure, which combines first and second reading, because the debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Agriculture and Shuamrship. The proposal of the Club of Representatives of HSS is a provost read, the dispersion was carried out by the same committees, the reports you received at the session. First, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Petar Cobankovic would like to explain the government's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12118	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me explain in short lines the draft law on amendments and amendments to the law. State support in agriculture, fishing and forestry. First of all, I would like to stress that for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy this is a fundamental law. And that, practically, according to this Act, 85% of the budget is allocated to which the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy is available in the part of normal agriculture if we exclude that part of the water economy added. Shondo to this, this Ministry has made a very thorough approach to this proposal. And accordingly, we did and held several consulting meetings with representatives of producer associations. With representatives of agricultural and food companies, advisory and other professional services in agriculture, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Association of Employers and the academic community. We normally wanted to listen and see what those who do business and who are concerned with this Law think about what should be done and what to change in order to make this Law in practice a full contribution to what we want. And we want this Law and that the funds provided for to be deployed by this law are in the function of developing the Croatian agricultural penitentiary. Normally, we've heard all the suggestions normally that we've tried, that most of them we've tried to build into the law, but also normally, that we've had to keep an eye on what we build into the law, that what we build into the law is in accordance with existing legislation, that we're responsible for what we build. And that's where we have the budget for the funding. I am not in favour of stating in the law certain items, certain amounts, and then for various reasons these amounts cannot be realised. But generally, when we look at the essence of the whole debate, I can say that we have managed to get along with everyone involved with this law. And that is, above all, a certain starting point of our base, that is, that is, that I would even more like to work on the separation of commercial and non-conventional economies. With a significant increase in income support. Then, to encourage more and more of this law, and in some ways favour that part of production and that sector for which the Government and this Ministry have already prepared strategic programmes such as the raising of several-year crops, such as the programme of promotion of cattle production. And that we value more labour intensive production and more significant strengthening of livestock production. Which means increasing meat and milk production. It was also our starting base that we must take care of the available budget, and respect for the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia, primarily related to the WTO. And our last but also important provision, that this Law goes in the direction of harmonising Croatian support with the European Union's policy. And according to that, let me take that part out for us the most important and most important changes that we've regulated by this proposal. As I have already said one of the guidelines and in every direction is the stronger separation of commercial and non-conventional economies, but at the same time we are aware of the number of agricultural economies, we are aware of the situation that our agriculture is also in transition we are aware of 50 years of socialist power. Which has established certain maximums, which have struggled that agricultural economies or, better said, farmers' land holdings cannot be encircled, cannot be strengthened. So land policy and maximum policy. For these reasons we are also aware of the ageing structures in our village and accordingly went to support the donation or income support for the existing user group to increase from 7200 to 12 thousand kuna per year. We also wanted to increase the use of agricultural land to a maximum of 5 hectares. It means that we also include those who, conditionally speaking, have a little more agricultural land. We hold this with a strategic definition and expect that part of the agricultural economies that cannot be market-oriented and cannot survive on the market to direct it towards income support and, accordingly, we expect that we will significantly increase the number of economies that will enter this support system. Unfortunately, in the last year it was somewhere over 2,000 economies, our intensity is to increase that amount. In addition to the existing group, the second group of users for which the amount of 5 thousand kuna per non-non-economic holding is introduced. The next thing I want to point out, which is what I would say in the context that our orientation is for these support to be in the function of developing agriculture. We are not in favour of limiting anyone in any administrative way, but we want to have and share economies in those who are successful and who are doing well, not the size of their property. We believe that there is room for both the smaller economies and the larger ones, and in this context we are removing a limit of 2 million kuna, which was foreseen in the previous law as the highest total annual amount of support that one agricultural holding can achieve. But just as I have already said, we want to bring this law as much as possible into line with the European Union's support policy and, accordingly, we are introducing a proportional reduction of the 4% annual incentives for the amount of incentives achieved by the agricultural economy of more than 78 000 kuna as of 1 January 2005. What are we bringing this in for? It is normal to expect that the larger, stronger and stronger economies are both more competitive and more stable, and accordingly we have decided that all those who achieve an annual incentive greater than 78 thousand kunas to reduce their incentives by 4%. Why 78 thousand kuna? We took this as a certain amount of incentives that, according to our estimates and according to our orientation, should be achieved, I would say targeted agricultural economies in the Republic of Croatia. This is, in our opinion, the amount of incentives that should be pursued by a particular economy, and normally in line with that amount of incentives, in order to be, that there must be a certain size of certain production. Now let me just say about what I said about this Ministry and the Croatian Government bringing in certain operational programmes, increasing certain productions, and as I said we have operational programmes to raise long-term plantations, and in this context we and through support policy want to put a certain emphasis on these productions. I don't think there's any need to repeat it again, we talked about imports yesterday, we talked about what we're importing, and at the end of the day I'm saying that in the first three months, vegetables and fruit for 52 million kunas have been imported, I think it's enough talking to myself, and that's what makes us even stronger to work in that direction, and that's what we have to do through the incentive policy in that way. And according to this, the incentives for vineyards and orchards are doubled from annual payments. So it doubles the amount of annual payment per hectare for vineyards and orchards. 20% increase incentives to raise orchards and vineyards. A new incentive is also introduced to raise breeds of vines and breeds of vines as well as nobles that are paid normally as for other long-term plantations once. The incentives for vaccines and seedlings from Kuna to from 2 to 5 kuna are increasing, and let me just say that these two measures introduce incentives to raise progenitors both vines and nobles, as well as fruit and nobles, and this increase of support for the production of vaccines and seedlings is in the function of development of the nursery production. When we were doing operational programs to raise long-term plantations and when we analyzed the existing situation, and ultimately, everyone who deals with this production is very well aware that one of the factors that makes it impossible to take more significant steps to raise exactly the same ones is precisely and very poorly developed plant production in the Republic of Croatia and that practically our self-sufficiency in this production is measured by tens of percent of the total needs. And that is why we are proposing these kind of measures, but also let me point out that plant production is a high-intensity production where there is a high participation in human labour where significantly higher revenues are achieved per unit of surface, and therefore income and that we must encourage this production primarily to meet our needs. We have both great specificities and our orientation in the fruit industry, but even more in the wine growing part of the vineyard is the development and raising of new plantations of indigenous varieties, and there are normal occurrences of myself free to show great problems, because there is simply no adequate fruit material to be introduced. Here's why we're proposing measures like this. The next thing I'd like to emphasize as our free to say the strategic definition I said, it's more important to support livestock farming and all in the function of greater meat and milk production is that we introduce a new type of incentive for tov calf in beef production. The fact is and it is free to tell yourself a public secret that the vast majority of domestic calves are slaughtered, that despite the ban, it worships in the rule that it ends up on the black market and that practically this hero is based on the import body. For these reasons, we want to change this relationship, we want to put an accent on the production of domestic calves, so that from domestic calves we have to have this hero. It's also a fact that we have double damage. In part, in the first part, it is that the domestic calves do not end up in the tow, and in the second part, what the domestic calves are normally loaded on milk to relatively high weights and thus prepare for slaughter, or rather put for sale in meat. This way we get, as I have already said, domestic calves in tova, and on the other hand we increase the amount of milk which is also one of our strategic specifics. And below, the incentive for a drowned June of a domestic calf increases to a thousand kuna. Finally, domestic June, grown from a domestic calf, eventually comes with a thousand kunas or when we combine it with previous incentives, means that the amount of incentives is doubled by one throat. I'd just like to point out one thing here, so there aren't certain misunderstandings. In Croatia, an animal labelling system has been introduced, and according to this all of the June, or rather all the bodies that have entered it and which has been recorded it will be, it will achieve the incentive of the one that has already been foreseen since 800 kuna. This measure concerns the placing of new calves on the market. Why? For the simple reason that we must also separate the way we mark the hero, we must make sure that the domestic tov is clearly visible and that it is imported bodies. Also, in the part of the breeding of pigs we separate the incentive to the throats or rather, pigs drowned from the import pig and there the incentive to 50 kuna is reduced, and for that domestic pig remains an incentive of 100 kuna. In this way, we want to give more significant support and orientation to our own production. Next, milk-related. Milk with wine is certainly the most sensitive products for the European Union, products for which production quotas are established and accordingly, and knowing the situation that we today meet our milk needs at 70 % or better said 30 % of milk we import and we want to increase that production. We want and have changed the provision of an existing law where this year's incentives could be left only by producers who made more production than 6 thousand liters last year. This is, I'm free to say, one of the exceptions. Our orientation is not to reduce the minimal incentives of any surface, any throats for a simple reason because I stand on the point of not doing anyone any good. That's all we do is fool people. We have to direct our farmers and lead in one right direction, and it is the right direction that they must accumulate their production, that they have to increase their potentials and it is not good to go and dilute these amounts that we have in support of those who unfortunately will not be able to survive on the market and for which it would be particularly a disaster and a shock for unprepared entry when Croatia enters the European Union. For these reasons, what I was talking about, we went to an increase in income support and we want to show that we are socially sensitive and that we want to solve that part of the manufacturer in another way. But in the dairy industry, we make an exception for the simple reason because we are aware and based on last year's analysis, we came to know if we were to leave the old law with a valid definition that somewhere 45% of the dairy producers might not be able to achieve incentives in this year. It is a large number of producers, but it is also a significant amount of milk and it amounts to approximately 17% of total production. We, I said, in this period because it is an extremely sensitive product of interest that our purchase of milk does not decrease. We are heading towards an increase, and in this direction we have developed certain programmes that we will present at the Government and that we will implement, increasing milk production. And accordingly, we went to milk this year and in the following year there are no limits in minimally stimulating quantities. So, for two more years, it remains practically our producers to try to bring their production into line and increase, and then, in that way, they are completely different in terms of their support. Here I would like to stress one more thing, that according to the applicable law, and therefore one of the reasons why we asked for the urgent procedure of adopting this law is that we cannot pay off in accordance with the applicable law, we cannot pay off the incentives for milk to those producers who did not achieve those minimum 6 thousand liters last year, and we want this law to be able to pay back retroactively from 1.1.2004 on the basis of unpaid incentives to those who have failed to achieve support under the applicable law. Next thing I want to point out, we went to the olive industry in the proposal for the processing of olive fruit in the amount of 1 kuna per kilogram. So, we've changed the pattern of tree-based olives and we've come back to fostering by weight, but the incentives will only be possible for those olives and olives listed in the register, and here, to avoid any abuse of the application of this incentive law, the maximum amount must be based on 35 kilograms of olive trees per tree and on the tree that's listed in the register. Here, when we talk about olive growing, we would also like to point out that, with the incentive to stimulate the plantation that normally increases by 20%, that through support and rural development programmes, we would provide for another type of support that would encourage the restoration of olive groves. So we know the situation that in the coastal area, and especially in the islands, we have a large number of olive trees, olive trees, olive trees, which are abandoned for various reasons. We know that the olive is a long-standing culture whose ages, both exploitation and life, are centuries old and precisely for these reasons through rural development support programmes to encourage the revitalisation of existing plantations and olive trees. The next thing I want to point out that we are inciting seed production is the introduction of a payment per hectare of recognised seed crops and users, which is particularly important to emphasize is not only seed growers but also agricultural producers. In organic production, allow me to say a few words about the organic production that I hold is very important production, that it is production, that it is production in which Croatia has its chance to develop and that Croatia has great potential and potential for the development of organic production. I am aware that it is ours, today looking at organic production on low branches, that it is an extremely small production but it is also a fact that all the intensity of highly developed countries is going exactly in the direction of production as healthy and as high-quality food as possible. In this context, and also with respect to the fact that it is highly labour intensive production where much greater direct participation in human labour is, and I believe that this is what we in agriculture must strive to do if we want that percentage of the population that we are dealing with agriculture today to continue to survive on agriculture and that agriculture can live on. For these reasons, incentives for all plant cultures are extended in organic production and incentives for all species of livestock as well as for rabbits are introduced in livestock production. Also, one of the specifics and the introduction of one type of support related to the reproduction of our cattle is introduced, and therefore new incentives for production are introduced for certain cultures such as proso, silenium, oil mustard, olive pumpkin, castors, bacon, hemp, chicory, Sudanese grass, an increasing new species of healing, aromatic and spice plants grown on oranic plants, and for strawberries in the amount as foreseen for incentives for meaning in the amount of 1250 kuna per hectare. And now let me finally say the same way that we went and introduced through this bill we introduce the phasing out of all commercial agricultural economies that exercise the right to incentives in the income tax system. DESCRIPTION of the existing definition and introduce ourselves free to say a softer and more gradual criterion for applying this measure, and so in 2005, users of incentives that generate more than 25 thousand kunas of incentives, so they will have to be taxpayers of income tax, while in 2006, they must meet those incentives that provide support of more than 12 thousand kunas. Since 1 January 2007, all users will have to be in the income tax system. This measure is respected by the current situation and I say we have introduced a certain kind of graduality because we are aware that it is free to say it, a measure that is not well taken by our agricultural producers but one of the necessary measures if we want to go in the direction of which we want to, if we want to introduce order on the market, from control, from production, to final product, and I believe that you share the Government's opinion that the government wants to go uncompromisingly in the direction of introducing order on the market of grey or black market, eliminating products that are so marketed. We want to put everything into certain frameworks, we want to regulate everything from market to state, and accordingly, we have only this change to make it easier to apply or introduce the phasing out of this measure, but finally let me say this is one of the measures that we want to go even more significantly to separate commercially from non-commercial producers. We are not socially insensitive, we know and respect the moment of Croatian agriculture, the Croatian village, we know that this is the result of a variety of congested conditions but in a certain direction we must go, this is the direction of increasing production, that is the direction, in the direction of rounding up agricultural economies and that is the direction this Government and this Ministry will lead Croatia's agriculture in the coming period. Finally, let me just say the closing word, to say this is not a new law, these are only amendments and additions to the existing law, this is a function of adapting Croatia's agriculture to join the European Union, in the European Union it is already going in a new policy of incentives and support, we will normally work more on further activities and in the coming years to bring this legislation into line with the way we apply these measures in the countries in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12119	Thank you. Please, who's going to explain the proposal on behalf of the HSS Club? Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12120	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. Let me say a few words, but I won't take full advantage of the time as Mr. Minister, because he's done a lot of work for me. In that part I must stress, we already have before us another law which unfortunately I must say is not an emergency procedure but is in the first reading. We see the government here has a law of urgency. I think I must make it very clear that we gave our law in February that it was only now that it was our turn, and unfortunately we had to wait so long for the government's proposal. Almost one major part of these technical changes is the same, so I'm not going to repeat them in that part, but I'm sorry, because I have to say that we at the HSS Club are thinking in a different way about proposing laws. Almost if I remember correctly except for one law in front of the HDZ Club at the time I acted as a minister there was no. We now propose laws, we want to participate in certain changes in a constructive way, and I think we should do it in a certain way and valorize it, so it was time that maybe our law was finished, and no one can say it's not on the trail, because we almost have 80, 90% of the same provisions, on the basis of what the government is proposing to release in the procedure now, and then assign the government to adopt a final proposal within a short time, so I think that would be one responsible procedure in that part, but here's the situation we have. I want to highlight here in the first place those things where we differ in a certain way between the government's proposal and our proposal for the HSS. What I am particularly emphasising and what I want to elaborate on is something, which is all the time, I would say was restrictive about certain proposals, and these are certain legal provisions. Certain legal provisions laying down certain minimums, of course, were set as one specific objective. However, we must definitely know that this goal, that these aspirations towards which we want to go, are good aspirations. However, the big question is how can they be achieved and whether it is necessary when we define certain things about them to the maximum. What I want to point out here is certainly that proposal that we had related to the limitation around the settlement areas, i.e. those 3 hectares that were written in the law but never applied in 2003, 2002 or 2001, but were a clear proposal. I think that all those who know a little more about agriculture are clear, that if we concentrate certain productions, if we optimise them on costs, then we come to the fact that, for example, for wheat production, we don't need more than 4000 300 producers, that in some other productions we certainly have a very, very smaller number of producers if we want to optimise it maximumly. But there's the main difference I want to talk about. In this direction we can go further, I can also make some concrete suggestions that we heard on our committee when we discussed, what we want from agriculture at all, and whether it is just a focus of agriculture in a particular direction in the production itself and whether it has any other role. Perhaps it is a good example of this multi-significant role of agriculture in Europe is called a multi-functional example given to us by a member of our beekeepers, a representative of a beekeeping association that has made it very clear. In Croatia today we produce cca honey for about 25 million kuna and this is the economic activity in terms of honey that is very direct. But when we think about what beekeeping means, then we come up with very significant different facts. No bee-free pollination, no other production that's indirect in that part. Since we know that such a way is necessary, then we know that this indirect value is almost speaking of several billion kunas as well. Which would mean that. We can put all beekeepers in two, three would be very profitable, if one beekeeper had, for example, a few thousand hives and then put everything in two places where some rich pasha is, but then we have a problem, the bees can't fly 500 or a thousand kilometers they can fly just 2.5, 3 kilometers and pollinate that area. How to pollinate other areas then, or we're going to import the bumblebees again, etc. Therefore, the function of the right function of agriculture is slightly different, which is what we have put very clearly in this law, which we did not go to, and we are certainly in that section on administrative constraints. Administrative restrictions regarding those who have decided whether they want income support or want to be commercial, those who want to be commercial we release them, please gentlemen with one hectare, go with 10 liters of milk, you go ahead, and see how it will be on the market if you decide to go to market. We don't have the right, we don't have the right to take administrative action. Many will say, here you see, how smart they are now, and they have passed these laws, these limitations, etc. It is clear that we have brought about the direction of some who should have been given direction. However, none of these restrictions were repeated in application. The classic indicator of these restrictions I will give you this example of the latest one relating to the structure of the milk supplier according to the quantities and classes. Up to 6,000 liters of milk the number of producers in Croatia today is 34 thousand. It's a total of 58% of the producers or 17% of the production. From 6 to 10 thousand, 10 thousand 452 producers or 17% of producers, 15% of production. When we add only these two data, we come up with a total number of over 75% of the manufacturers. I'd say, we heard it in the proposal, so I'd like to compose the government's proposal, that in one future period we have to go with the previous period of production of 12,000 liters. If you count it now, I've reached cca 10,000 liters, and in this class of 10,000 to 20 thousand there are another 9,000 manufacturers and 15 percent more, and almost 80 percent of the producers will not be able to receive a certain ex post in view of the administrative restriction. I think we need to take maximum care of it, and we don't have the right to determine such things in the administrative section, it definitely shows the experience. What I have to say, no matter what we have set in the law, given certain goals, did not show the results. Agriculture is slow, agriculture is traditional and without distinction that administratively determining certain things has not occurred significant changes. There was no significant change in those small economies that became large, they remained unfortunately traditional. We can have, here we've been listening, good orientations, multi-annual plantations, good orientations to go to those productions that require more work. But gentlemen, I would pray to anyone who is willing to do the hardest part of the job, which is education, talking to people, who, for example, is what we always think of and what we always say, who for 30 years sows wheat not to sow wheat anymore, but to plant vineyards or orchards. It's not that simple. It takes years and years, and I think there's one big part of the job that's certainly ahead of us. I must say another aspect in which part there is certainly an important difference between our proposal and the Government's proposal and perhaps even something that I can personally say here in front of the Croatian public in front of you ladies and gentlemen, which neither we have succeeded until 2003, which is the market. The market as one of the most significant factors, I would say in agriculture, as one of the most unstable parts. What did we want to do in our proposal? We wanted to do what was possible. It's impossible to find a buyer, it's impossible to find I would tell someone and say they'll definitely take a certain agricultural product, unfortunately that we must leave it to the farmers to do that part of the job on their own. However, what we have proposed and primarily refers to two productions and that in livestock, it is the production and to the pig to make this incentive, it is 100 kuna support tied to the price. For example, we have a target price in pigs, it stands somewhere between 9 and 10 kuna. Our proposal for this and such production is 100 kuna per piece of a drowned freighter. If the price drops, for example, it falls by 1 kuna then the support increases to 200 kuna i.e. It's increasing by 100 kuna. It's direct safety to the agricultural producer. Of course that's how I'd say one more up-to-date planning, one security in my production. Similarly, we suggest that we keep ourselves in certain contexts of a more long-term, stable production, and we think that we help agricultural producers most directly in this way. I know that the ministry and the government will say that it is contrary to certain regulations, etc., etc. However, I must say that sometimes what is contrary until it comes into the phase that it really is the opposite we have had certain disputes with the World Trade Organisation, etc., have been going on for months but a large part of the work has certainly been done in that part. Perhaps a few more sentences about these important differences in the very concept of certain things. Indeed, our thinking about agriculture, about the village, that one of the many important roles of agriculture itself is something that we think must be strengthened by this one of the fundamental laws that defines certain things. Unfortunately, neither in this law did we move forward in the direction of rural development, in the direction of those measures that would allow us in any case, of course they do not even fall within that part of our obligations to the VTO but to spread them as much as possible. That is why we, and in this part, propose to highlight in the rural development model one important thing that we believe will help our agricultural producers greatly. We know that many agricultural producers today have their own facilities, their own farms. Unfortunately, they do not have construction permits or many necessary documents. The future is ahead of us, the integrations are ahead of us and it certainly will not be able to go in this direction, and our proposal is to ensure through rural development from the state budget that all those who launch these processes can in a certain way demand money and not automatically, not by some competitions or some other things, but as soon as they achieve that possibility, as soon as they ask their facility to get a building permit and everything else to help in some way. Also, the thoughts that were particularly in last year related to capital investments as a good new model that certainly with 25% of the budget give one incentive because agriculture needs new investments, we need a new investment, and we think that this is a good way to stimulate it. What was restrictive and what we met with was certain that in law it had to be banking financial institutions. Many agricultural producers have also asked me to change it and put it on and that it can also be our own resources. Thinking about it, I think that in any case, given that this model and we see it wasn't used to the extent that we thought it would be used, that big funds would be requested, we heard it recently from the minister who said he also has significant resources and doesn't know if it's all going to be spent, we think that in that part we need to change and allow all those who have their own resources to also go into investment and that in that part they're being helped maximumly. I think there will be an opportunity in further discussion to speak far more about this part, about the very differences in certain articles, but of course the most important thing that I want to stress is one overall reflection, the overall thinking that I have to say today is very contained and in thinking in the European Union, thinking about what agriculture is and whether this agriculture is just an economic activity that is important or has a broader role. We're in HSS and in that section we're going. We claim that it has its multifunctionality, that it is multi-significant and that it has many segments of general usefulness that can certainly not be charged directly but that society must recognise them and, of course, must in that part be rewarded by the agricultural producer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12121	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? You can't Minister yet. The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The Agriculture Committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. As the debate is united, representatives of clubs have the right to 20 minutes. The first on behalf of the clubs is the respected representative Željko Pavlic on behalf of the Club Libre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12122	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Let me, on behalf of the Club of Libre, make some of the essential points of view on the proposed laws. For the time being, the LIBRE Club is abstention in adopting these laws because, while they are making progress on the policy of so far, they, in the opinion of our Club, do not give high quality and full answers to the requirements for, quote, changes in the content of nature in accordance with the government's programme guidelines on the development of agriculture, as stated in the proposal of the Government and fail to achieve the basic objective of ensuring that the objectives of the agricultural reform are met, as stated in the proposal for the Croatian Peasant Party's law. What we particularly point out is our opinion that the law proposed by the Government will not meet the government's intention, which it also particularly highlights, is that as much as necessary and as much as necessary, it restructures agricultural support towards more demanding production, with further strengthening of the role of livestock production and, above all, vineyarding and fruit growing. It is not by any chance, therefore, that the Government itself underlines the need for investment in the development of fruit and vineyarding because the situation in this segment of agricultural production can serve as a paradigm example of bad conditions in our agriculture. It is, in fact, the most pronounced deficit in agriculture. That is, the data tell us that in 2003, fruit and vegetables worth 114 million kuna were exported from exports, totaling EUR 3.7 billion and imports of fruit and vegetables worth as much as 1.56 billion kuna, which is the largest item in the 2003 import of food and live animals, which was 6.6 billion kuna. And this year, we're recording a deficit. Only in the first three months of this year was fruit and vegetables worth 52 million dollars and not kunas for my information, or more than milk and meat combined. Croatia today has only enough mandarin to meet its needs, we have to import everything else. The plums are 20%, apples are 50%, pears are 80%. What particularly stings is the fact that in 1987 fruit was exported from Croatia worth $175m and only South fruit worth $45m was imported. Therefore, Croatia has become a major importer from the exporter, although it has exceptional conditions for fruit and vegetables. Croatia should raise as many as 40,000 new plantations of orchards, vineyards, olive groves to meet its own needs. Although the proposed changes to the law have led to an increase in investment in fruit and vineyarding, e.g. There is an incentive to raise orchards and vineyards by 20%, with double exports of annual payments per year. And also if we compare investment in neighbouring countries in our opinion these funds are insufficient and will be insufficient. And this is especially so because in the next few years, within a relatively short period of time, quotas must be met for planting new plantations of orchards and vineyards, and the backlog that is recorded cannot be reached by the intended means because the cost of raising plantations is very high. However, the revitalisation of this part of agriculture must not be reduced to monetary incentives only. ... Lands, the absence of business organisations that would organisedly buy and place products, a lack of refrigeration and wholesalers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are also the conditions that must be met to trigger the production of agricultural products where we have the most pronounced deficit. In addition to lagging the overall deficit effect of more intensively stimulating fruit production, vegetables, grapes should also be marketable or social, this is the realization that it can be made more on smaller units of the area growing, for example. pickles, not corn. Thus, the Club of Libre once again highlights the example of fruit growing as an example of untapped or better said lost potential. And it is also particularly true that until now, fruit farmers were given only 0.3% of the total amount of incentives while the farmers received 62%, farmers 30%, fishermen 4%, etc. This new law does not significantly change this, which means that we remain in the positions we have been in for years, that the agricultural reform that would make it productive, diverse and competitive is difficult to achieve. We also highlight the role of government and advisory services that should make the balance of our needs, which would encourage the most exactly and the products that are most imported and can be produced in sufficient quantity in Croatia. What we would like to personally warn about is the issue of land policy. That's it. the possibility that we can influence these laws too... Land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fragmentation of our agricultural areas is one of the biggest obstacles. And without solving that issue, there's hardly anything to be done in agriculture. And what is the situation in the area, I will illustrate to you an example from the Mediterranean county where even 76% of the economies own less than one hectare of agricultural areas and that these economies hold 25% of the land. With that 1 hectare or mayo of one hectare divided into several parcels. The average hectare in these economies is 0.35. The situation is similar in other parts of Croatia. As a result, the Međimurje County has opened tenders these days for granting subsidies for... and an increase in farm land ownership in the family farms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It seems to me a unique such tender for now in Croatia, unfortunately it is not in this incentive system. So, this tender is awarded the grant money for... and increasing the ownership of agricultural land in the family, agricultural holdings that were bought or replaced in 2004 at the following amounts, therefore, grants are given. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 1500 kuna per hectare for purchased or ground land for the purpose of increasing the total agricultural area and 2.5 thousand kuna for purchased and replaced land for the purpose of... existing parcels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I think this kind of subsidy is also supposed to be found in this law if we want to achieve the environment of our property. However, in addition to such a system of fostering cash subsidies and in order to round up agricultural land, it should be considered to bind the obligation of those agricultural households receiving or receiving income support to make a contractual commitment to give up their country in full or in part of the State in exchange for income support or other forms of compensation. In fact, some countries have agencies that carry out such tasks, which speed up the process of rounding up. It is also necessary to amend the Legacy Act to prevent further parceling of agricultural areas that are happening today and continue in fact. The third thing we'd like to warn you about and which we hope will change is about the data we've already provided. to the fact that a large number of our farmers, especially in some parts of Croatia, are shot by Međimurje, Zagorje, Podravina owns less than one hectare of agricultural land and often in several plots. So the question is how much they can satisfy the conditions to achieve a minimum incentive of production which is a condition for obtaining incentives. So we suggest the possibility to be for some counties i.e. or, for some regions, these conditions shall be reduced i.e. to lower the quotas and the necessary areas. The Međimurje County also proposed the 3rd amendment that we will try to transfer to the ministry. Therefore, due to the specificity of agriculture in the County of Međimurje, it is proposed to change the minimum quantities encouraged, e.g. for vocal, vegetable production from 0.5 hectares to 0.25 hectares. For organic production which is very important from 0.5 to 0.25 hectares, for the number of dairy cows from 4 pieces to 2 pieces, etc. I think it should be noted that because of the conditions so far, as many as 4,000 economies in Međimurje County have lost their right to incentives precisely because of their small plots and so on. Dear colleagues and colleagues here, the Club of libre is therefore abstention in the adoption of these laws and we will submit certain amendments, which will depend on whether we support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12123	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12124	Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. In the introduction, I will say a few remarks in general about the situation in agriculture and what we should do in the period ahead of us in this segment of the economy. What are the impacts on the situation in agriculture in general, and especially in Croatia. ... agricultural policy that is run even more... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] which is based on that more social than developmental and lately insufficient rate of change in this segment of the economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are in agriculture as far as agriculture and the total of our economy are unprepared for the liberalisation of the Croatian market. Joining the World Trade Organisation and then many free trade agreements, regardless of the transitional period which in most cases refers to agriculture and part of the food industry or to the asymmetric contracts that we have signed with certain countries, have actually encouraged imports. Unless we can train domestic agricultural production and processing industry, that is, the food industry. With this liberalised market and greater demand, insufficient domestic consumption, uncompetitive domestic consumption, which will have a higher price regardless of the quality of the product, will encourage imports in this segment. So in this short period where we are all planning to be not only candidates but also enter the European Union, we must make it as ready as possible for us as possible, as soon as possible, to get into these processes or to make our agriculture and food industry as competitive as possible. Here I would refer to one of the wrong perceptions that we in Croatia have that agriculture can significantly encourage employment. It can only do so indirectly through the processing industry, and the profitability in agriculture can be found only in the total chain of raw materials production, from processing to trade and in that chain if good relations are then in any case a lower or greater profit can be achieved and will not be shifted to the first in the chain, and profits only to the last in the chain. We have a situation like this now, by chance. The processing industry, because it is financially weak, seeks to transfer all the problems of supplies to agriculture, and trade is also indirectly to the processing industry, stocks in trade or through relatively high margins to achieve income on a smaller, smaller realisation or trade is a larger importer than the processing industry in this segment. When we talk about all the productions and what areas of Croatia to develop, we have not gone far here. For the past 15 years, it has been said that regionalisation is needed, and when we do, when we determine what optimal space for individual production is to make it by offerings and quality, then it is possible to have different incentives for the same production, so we will not produce wheat or corn where the low income is, yields rather than where there are enough land and where optimal yields are possible. Therefore, there is also a problem that we do not have enough quality land everywhere, especially as far as long - term plantations are concerned. I would say here, especially I would point out here the coast and Dalmatia and there really needs to see what to do with forest land, with land under the maquito and how to bring it to culture because it has not only a good influence on agricultural production but also on some indirect effects of fire prevention and so on. More radically, a selection of incentives towards missing production is needed, according to a production that has more lives of work because it is both more profitable and for those productions which will be interesting for Croatia in export and which will also make profit in exports. This would mean, then, that we will have to gradually reduce the incentives for cereals and encourage, to increase incentives for such production. However, before we even talk about increasing production, we need to analyse our situation in terms of investment and technological terms. How much since small investments have recently been in agriculture and processing industry, which should be raised in the short term, we have lagged behind in technological terms. This then, teachingly, continues to give, increase cost, increase the total cost of production, and in the entire chain we become uncompetitive. This would mean that we need to significantly increase investment funds and through this change and the structure of production and, I agree, what the Minister was saying in the introduction that it is necessary to go to, which is the intensity of this Law, to go to those which are substantially subject to imports already today. So these are also plantations and breeding herds and some other production. However, it is obvious that there are budget-related constraints, and indeed these funds that are large for our terms, but small for the needs that are ahead of us, should be driven more rationally and out of the so-called agrarian budget, all those givings that have the character of social giving. I think it is important to speak here today that it is important that this population that will be engaged in agriculture participates in adequate education programmes and that, in this respect, we also need to implement a certain reform of education. It is not enough to have just agricultural colleges, but it is also necessary to have a lower level of education for one part of the people who will deal with agriculture. Given that the government has given the law by emergency procedure, and the HSS Club in the first reading, I think that at least as far as this proposal is concerned, in one part, we should respect what the HSS Club proposes, it seems to me that in one part they regulate the height of certain incentives in a different way, so in that sense, perhaps these two proposals should be combined in view of and we will already plead on the final proposal for amendments and additions. I would now, in the follow-up of the presentation, try to say several of our remarks concerning the concrete articles of the final draft law. In Article 3, Article 2 may, in fact, define agricultural economies in a commercial and non-commercial way in a different way and in a way that is simpler to say that commercial economies are all those that are listed in the register and we have no objections to that definition. Article 3 increases the maximum use of agricultural land for farmers to enter the income support system. We do not think that this should be done, given that in Croatia, at least as statistics say, the average of agricultural land is moving around the household of about 3 hectares, in most parts of Croatia, it is far less. A colleague of Pavlic had previously said what a Međimurje was, but so is this part of northwestern Croatia, so also Zagorje. I don't think that this should work, that agricultural land status should be regulated after retirement of economic operators, income support users, and that in this sense, such economies that have fewer countries should be encouraged to produce more intensively in the production of vegetables, flowers, you don't know what not. Environmental production, or the association of several such agricultural households into cooperatives, even though our people somehow despise it as if it had some ideological omens. And we know that cooperatives work well in some Western lands. Austria is closest to us here, and such experiences should be used. In Articles 6 and 7, however, it is acceptable for us to see the incentive for the processing of olive fruit, however, for legal oboes registered for sperm production activities and extended as was said in the introduction, and for the right incentives for parent plantations for these calves and sperm production. So, we really have a law on incentives covering almost every production or any activity in the field, but we should analyse and look for relationships where certain incentives should be, through analysis of what we have achieved in the past through the extraction of current incentives and the height of incentives in these productions. I would have stopped for a little while longer on Article 8. He is now talking about a transitional period and conditions for all commercial economies to enter the income tax system by 2007. In other words, they would be in the context of both VAT and income systems. Which, under the existing law, is not the case. However, I would still refer to Article 15 of the Income Tax Act, which states in that article that craft activities within the meaning of this law are considered among other things to include agricultural production and forestry, which includes the use of the country's natural resources and the use of these activities of the products obtained. Income tax from agriculture and forestry shall be paid if the natural person is, by the basis of this activity, a taxpayer of value added tax under that law. At the same time, Article 22 of the value added tax states that an entrepreneur is obliged to enter the VAT system if his income taxed amounts to more than 85 thousand kuna. I fear that our farmers, regardless of the size of the property, will be inadmissible that in 2007, all those who are registering and treated as commercial economies become in fact both craftsmen and water craftsmen, i.e., business books, pay both income tax and value added tax. In Article 12, something is being extended in a way, i.e. the regulation of the conditions for the achievement of the incentive in plant production, we would re-propose, as the eighth and the adoption of the law itself, that, with the use of declared seed of fruit material, the application of agrotechnical measures should also be included. To include benchmarks and quality, it is also necessary to consider whether there should be a placement contract for products produced above the balance sheet needs. Or in export they're non-profitable. Since in plant production incentives are paid by units of surface so by hack, we believe that the average quantity and average quality must be achieved for the achievement of the incentive. We now have cases to cover payments and then we have very low yields because then there is always a reason why no normal contribution is made. We also accept this amendment, which applies to Article 13 where the 2 million kuna limit is lifted, as much as possible, of the incentives achieved. We have proposed that it be abolished even when the basic law is passed. However, we would like to be thoroughly explained what the targeted economy means. And the limit to 78 thousand kuna. A colleague, Lončar, asked through the parliamentary question the answer to how many realized incentives it seems to me in 2003 or for 2002 are data. It is evident that a significant number of farmers holding agricultural holdings dealing with the production of milk or livestock have nevertheless achieved greater incentives than 78 thousand kuna. But they're moving somewhere up to a maximum of 200 thousand kuna and I don't think that's how we should limit the amount to 78 thousand kuna. But to see what our target economy is and with the desired production. Because it's known that in some productions, incentives are bigger. When it comes to fruit material and that incentives will only be given for quantities sold, that is, Article 18. What about that material that the manufacturer uses for every purpose. We have a significant number of producers that produce fruit material but simultaneously raises long-term plantations. And given that time goes to the era, I would only refer to this part that refers to the classification of non-commercial economies in two categories. We don't think we should do that, we don't have an objection to increase the amount from 7200 to 12 thousand kuna per member. And limit it to 24 grand per household. Since they are also bound by the payment of a pension contribution, which would significantly burden this asset that was received by Ali again, we think that we should solve the problem of the land on which they receive such support from the donor. We therefore find it unnecessary to separate non-commercial households, as other group users should be dealt with by other means. For example. through the national pension, which we have discussed and we will still discuss here in Parliament. Or through social support in the case of unemployed, beneficiaries of income support to the achievement of minimum pensions to receive the need for support but therefore to have a certain obligation. So when the last member who receives such support makes a pension, then it moves on to state property and has a special purpose of rounding up the property of those who will be engaged in commercial production. And that the state, through special conditions, suits exactly that kind of household. Finally, with several of these remarks and several amendments to be sent, we will accept this final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12125	Thank you very much. Minister Cobankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, ma'am, for speaking on behalf of the SDP club. I consider this your support to the intensity and desire of the way we conduct our agricultural policy, but here let me just one brief review of your exposure perhaps more in the form of clarification. I am aware that the liberalisation of trade and free trade agreements with individual countries and the European Union have contributed in any case to the increase of imports of agricultural food products into the Republic of Croatia. But they also created these contracts based on an increase in our exports to those countries. As for the asymmetric contracts, we had an asymmetric contract on our damage only with Bosnia and Herzegovina. The time course has passed since this year, all this contract is no longer asymmetric but is practically imports without customs codes as well as imports from Bosnia and Herzegovina into the Republic of Croatia. I am aware that we have some difficulties, but here is one persistent work and cooperation that we solve most of these problems, and we believe that the result will ultimately be that we will have a lot of consumption on both sides of the free trade agreement. As regards the treaty with the European Union, it is asymmetric in our favour. It is asymmetric in our favour, so it is that these contracts create more favourable conditions for the export of Croatian food products to European Union countries. Likewise, they are no longer in force for free trade agreements with accession countries, and accordingly we went to Additional Protocol 7 and here we have established the meaning of these additional quotas for the European Union, which I believe we have done a good job but on this, I do not want to pollemise here. But I would like to emphasise another aspect of these contracts, that, right through the support policy, we must lead our agriculture towards increasing the competitiveness of our products and increasing I would say to those products for which we have the possibility of exporting to EU countries, but also to some other countries, and unfortunately these are the products in which Croatia does not satisfy even self-sufficiency. So right on the products of work-intense cultures, on organic products, etc. are our great chances of exporting to other countries. What do I want to say? I want to say that the problem is with us and with us. We have to run our agrarian policy, we have to create conditions and increase exactly the target of those productions. We also wanted to give certain clues through this law that we are going to. I stressed in my presentation, this is not a new law, it is not a new philosophy, but the existing law we want to make more effective, more in the function of developing Croatian agriculture and we want to travel a certain direction, we want to give indications in which direction and in which production we want to favour. In this context, we are also aware that in certain areas it is a limiting factor in the development of such production and agricultural land. Lack, unfortunately, we have a good part of the private agricultural land that unfortunately cannot be properly or so far we have not put into operation in the right way and often or in general when it comes to agricultural land then the accent has always been on state agricultural land. We must put in the heat of our interest private agricultural land that is either practically or not processed in the desired way. But we are also aware that to create assumptions about its use, there are already legal provisions and we will also insist that the Agriculture Act and the Agricultural Land Act which says that unprocessed agricultural land units of local self-government must be called into office. We'll insist on that, but the problem is when we talk about long-term crops. So this land how to put it into function of a long-term plantation, how to enable those who are going to start a long-term lease now to provide a long-term form of lease. We are aware, and we have no intention of entering private property in a way that would challenge property or the like. We are investigating legal possibilities that according to the law not to be an anti-constitutional category, that we can put this land into function for many years, but we must also ensure that whoever invests and who invests in bringing this land to culture and that on that land, the same great investment is the design of a long-term culture we must then legally regulate and find legal solutions that will protect it from its ability to invest and consume a certain period of time. But we are also aware that there is a potential conditionally stated in so-called. The forest land, the unprocessed forest land and, accordingly, one of the government's conclusions, our government was at a session in Split that we had entrusted Croatia's forests and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the water economy to make sure that the forest land of the unspeakable normally was recorded, not on forest land under forests but on unspeakable land, and that we were doing the re-use of this land and that we were able to create long-term plantations on that land. We must also take care of the Law on Forests on Certain and International Conventions because, in accordance with that decision, we have also stated that all part of the re-purposed land can be re-scheduled. So in no way would anyone misinterpret that we're now going to cut the surfaces under the woods or anything like that. No, we'll do two useful things. We have hundreds of thousands of acres of unsuspecting agricultural land of the same kind. We're going to put one piece here in the function of agricultural production, and in the other part, according to that conclusion, the same size of the area has to be done in the forest. So we're doing a double benefit. I also agree and we will make every effort to increase the investments in agriculture and accordingly from our proposal for a budget and you see that we have gone to a significant increase in investment support. We have changed the rulebook and we will change it again because from the existing results, the requirements, the fact is that the problem is to meet the requirements of the Regulation that is set. In the last year, only 13 million kunas were paid on investment aids. We predicted 122 million kunas this year. Analyzing the time so far, we are aware that we must go again to change that rule so that we can consume that right at all. We'll probably go to an increase in the amount, not limit it to 20%. For certain programmes of the state's interest and that's one way to do it. Just a word more about the targeted economy. We're aware 80% of our economy is mixed. It's very hard to explain. We have a few models of what the target economy means, but if I don't go in now and spend my time, I'll just say what's the point. The point is that the total income of the target economy for us is about $400,000. These 78% make 20% support for what the state in the structure of that income gives. Here, this is some turning point, and when we compare it with the countries of the European Union there is that 5 thousand-euro divide. So, everyone who achieves an incentive of more than 5,000 euros goes to a proportional reduction in a certain percentage. We've defined ourselves and here for the target economy we have certain models, but I won't speak, we've determined that that's the amount of revenue from cca 4000 kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12127	I thank Minister Cobankovic. It is up to the Croatian Democratic Community Club, the respected representative Vladimir Kurecic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12128	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister and Associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. That the situation in Croatian agriculture is difficult to know not only from the occasional individual appearances of representatives in the Croatian Parliament or occasional press conferences of individual peasant associations. With a difficult situation in Croatian agriculture and in the Croatian village, we are all familiar with all of us who have lived in the country today, from agriculture, or agriculture, together with our families, and who live in the country today and face daily difficulties with which our agriculture lives. The most difficult situation on the back is carried by a silent and patient Croatian peasant who holds, carries, survives and survives all systems and all authorities. Inherited unfavourable structure of ownership and economy, high average household age, long-term lack of accumulation caused by low levels of technology and technology, a steady increase in the prices of entry costs and the inability of the state to support agricultural production at the necessary level is faced with open borders and markets, with pressure from agricultural products from countries with regulated agricultural and high export subsidies. He faces the interests of a trade which is of course an interest in profit and profit, and certainly no improvement in Croatian villages and agriculture. For these reasons, more and more unquality imports are being imported into Croatia which has the potential to feed more than 20 million people. I would like to remind you that last year alone, more than $1.2 billion worth of agricultural products were imported into Croatia. For these reasons, only 5 products for domestic use and domestic consumption are produced in Croatia. It's, as is known, corn, wheat, grapes, meat, poultry and eggs. And with all these Croatian fields and stables, everything is in poorer condition. Often unforeseeable operating conditions, the uncertainty of placements, already mentioned the pressure of import goods and the business on the edge of profitability are conditioned by frequent and high oscillations in production, especially negatively affecting the decline of livestock, especially the parent stock in livestock farming, which is very difficult to return due to the often long biological cycle. The particular weight of this problem is that by joining the European Union we will be able to keep the existing, now low quotas we have. A similar problem is both foreign plantations and other products. The reform of agriculture which was intended to distinguish commercially from non-commercial economies, therefore, helps commodity producers to compete more easily on this famous market, although I would especially like to highlight in no European country agriculture is left alone in the market. On the other hand, the creation of small and supporting small non-commercial economies, which in Croatian case are mostly social or pure social. So the reform began with changes to the 2002 Law and its changes in 2003. As the idea was not bad, however, it has not achieved any special positive effects so far due to the tromness of the entire system of agriculture, partly due to the shortness of time. Furthermore, because of the absence of a more courageous step in encouraging some types of production, and of course because of the lack of money, which is often the main problem. These amendments and additions to the 2002 and 2003 Law that we are discussing today represent a more decisive step in many segments and can be called a significant improvement compared to the solutions so far. It appears in several of the following points. First, it is very important to introduce two groups of income support in the demarcation of commercial from non-commercial economies. In the case of non-commercial holdings whose holding or member has, at the time of submission of a request for income support, the beneficiary shall have the status of pension insurance insurance undertaking as a farmer and for at least 50 years for a woman, or 55 years for a man. This support is increasing from the current 7 thousand 200 to 12 thousand kuna per user or carrier, i.e. a maximum of 24 thousand kuna per holding per year. The second group, therefore, beneficiaries of support for income from another group are non-commercial economies whose holder or at least one member at the time of submission of a request to support the income user of pensions as a farmer or is unemployed or has a pension insurance status as a farmer and does not meet the criteria for achieving support from the first group. There is 5 thousand kuna in support, which is a very significant, difficult term, but still by the so-called social category, although some believe that it should not be introduced through the agricultural budget, but at this point when there is no better solution, I think and think that this is a good solution. Furthermore, the improvement in these legal proposals also concerns the promotion of all plant organic production. It is clear that we can compete with ecology now rather than other types of production. Thirdly, a new incentive for the breeding vines and fruit species that we have not had so far, therefore, as an incentive we did not actually have as a production because what was done under legal conditions rather than supported, of course, was not particularly serious. In addition, there is a significant increase in the incentive of permanent plantations, the area is an increase of 20 and more than 20%, and in the incentives of one seedling of the current amount, i.e. the amounts so far have doubled somewhere and have been tripled. Encouraging seminary is a particularly valuable story in this idea and this amendment to the law, as it is quite clear that long-term seed production in Croatia will have to be restored in the 60s, 70s and 80s. And of course, this makes it easier to resist plant agricultural production and pressure from competitive countries. Furthermore, the incentives for the tov tend to double, up to now 800 kuna, they go to 1600 kuna, in addition to the incentives for the calf and the incentive for the drowned hero, which is therefore to greet, as well as the new incentives for breeding throats are also significant. Thus, no incentive has been lifted in relation to the solutions so far. Furthermore, new ones have been introduced, many have been increased, some and multiple, and this is especially to welcome. All of this represents a novelty, an increase and possibly a future greater interest in some deficit production in the Republic of Croatia. Agricultural producers will be able to choose the type of production they deal with or to move into the income support group during the next transitional period. Namely, the status quo that we have for a long time is not possible to maintain in the future, something needs to change, time is going, we are approaching Europe quite clearly that we must take a step forward. Since it is a transitional period and gradual changes, some solutions should be mitigated which we will try with several amendments. Furthermore, it may already be next year, perhaps it is not up to us to depend on many things, perhaps on the changes in the law, if the current solutions are shown to be improved after the effects of these measures are analysed, after the state and capacity of the state budget will be shown that Croatia as a candidate for the European Union will be able to slowly access pre-accession funds which will then, in combination with the budgets, be able to make more significant steps in the reform of agriculture. So this will be seen, however, as a whole, the Croatian Democratic Community's club welcomes this law and, of course, we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12129	I thank the esteemed representative Kurečić. It's time for the HSS Club to have two applications, Zeljko Pecek and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12130	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, for the government's representatives. I would use the opening time of the HSS for a concrete proposal and I would leave my colleague, Kolara, to measure the matter of the bill. My concrete proposal comes down to what is in Croatia, unfortunately, already constant that we have too much imports of agricultural products and that we have nothing to compete with on the domestic market in the segment of agricultural products, which is a fundamental issue for us Croats. It does not matter how much we introduce agricultural products in Croatia, but it is important what we can do and it is important what we can compete with, and that means with the price and quality of import products at home. That's why I suggest we devote ourselves a little bit to a segment called freshwater fishing that is completely bypassed here in the amendments to the law. I would ask the Minister precisely because we do not have the possibility to submit amendments because freshwater fishing is not mentioned in the amendments that he, on the basis of this proposal in the form of amendments to the Government, pays due attention to this sector. What's this about? Today in Croatia we produce about 2.5 thousand tonnes of freshwater fish, we spend about 12,000 and 500 tonnes of grains, but what is most important we do not have enough freshwater fish for our domestic market. However, when we look at what Croatia has, it is important to say that we have 15 thousand hectares of built ponds that have complete infrastructure. It's important to say that we have the genetics to grow, that we have the breeding stock, that we have the professional people, that we have the water and that we have the breeding technology. And what can we do? We can produce for the simple reason because it was also produced on these surfaces, about 14 thousand tons of freshwater fish, and for this production we will need about 70 thousand tons of grains, which means that probably in summer we will not discuss the market surpluses of wheat, the need for exports, but we will use it for domestic needs. It is important to say that the placement for this production is secured for the next 10 years, it is absolutely safe and from this quantity we can make 50 to 70% of total production. Most importantly, this is a clean Croatian product, a complete Croatian product, in export we produce a clean net foreign exchange inflow, we do not need to invest a single cent to use the import component. I stress in this product we are installing all Croatian. But we support this whole story somewhere with 10 million kunas. Since it is a great opportunity for the development of domestic production, of course, employment, since it is mainly in Slavonia and central Croatia, I propose that the Government propose, in the form of its amendments, an increase of incentives for the production of freshwater fish from the first and second groups and, of course, younger by 20%. So we're actually going to go back to the level of incentives we had in 2002, we're going to enable these huge potentials to be activated, we're going to lead to employment, we're going to have a competitive domestic product, and of course we're going to be able to export 50% of that production outside. I believe that on such concrete proposals we can and must establish a agricultural policy and therefore hope that the Minister or Government will propose amendments precisely in this direction in order to increase incentives for the production of freshwater fish and younger by 20%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12131	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary with his associates. Here, let me have some emotion, I'm still a peasant, my long-standing experience in the Parliament says that never before has the government ever, ever the Resolute Ministry come up with a proposal like this that definitely dissipates the country. In fact, such a proposal, where we turn not into a liberal market economy in a country where agriculture as an economic branch is left to the market with small or such interventions so far, has not been made by any government. The frequent changes, indications for the restructuring economy market, have not moved. I assure you that even this attempt of yours certainly has no basis for the village and the presence of us in the assembly tells us how interested we are, but I think our base of the people concerned will be well assessed by what this proposal means. Namely, I will remind you of our philosophy because I speak on behalf of the HSS Club and that there will be no confusion that the HSS Club does not want to be in Europe but we are an integration part of Europe, we feel like Europeans and in this sense we live in the European cultural landscape that we are working on, which we rule in a peasant way. But how? Ecologically tolerable, generationally responsible, constantly, that's already said because the peasant survived for those governments and... survived and all together will survive from the government. The environment is correct, but in relation to the soil of natural species, I remind you that we still have 82% grant and catastrian property, because it's about ownership and our skin is about it. It means that we know by ownership how we do it, multi-structured, market-oriented and competitively. I assure you that as much as you say that we are uncompetitive, we have survived, no one has sanctioned us and competitively produced us all the time. And the evidence on the other side is very much to be proved. To be responsible for our original life bases and to be responsible for an important task is a meaningful order of human life. We've done this a hundred times in this House and we repeat it now. So I suggest you and HSS's feature is, we respect social economic models in other parts of the world. But we also require others to respect our models, meaning production. I remind you, for these suggestions where 400 thousand incomes should be made, just to remind ourselves of the population census in 2001 was 712 thousand 944 families who had agricultural land. According to the 2003 census, 448 of these 523 families were registered as farmers, which means they are processing. Or we still have 264 grand that owns the land, and they're not farmers. But it's a miracle that 10 acres of agricultural land in 1981 was 14 thousand and 500, in 2001 either 16, 700, 2003. 20 grand, 878. The total fund of which such targeted producers handles approximately 180 to 200 thousand hectares. If another 200 thousand acres are processed by the social ex-converted, unconverted companies, I ask you, a million and a half thousand acres refers to farmers. This law and the Agriculture Act speak of that part of agriculture as a fundamental law. It's a population of a million and a half thousand people who depend on it one way or another. That is why I remind you that the models Europe prescribes for us are not models for Croatia, because we are too small, because we cannot in any way appreciate it and we do not have a social substitute that is emerging. And believe me, these people who listen to us right now, who won't be a commercial household and don't fall into any category, they're left without incentives, and they just can't survive. That is why I suggest that the ecological standards based on the principles of Christian social science, which is at the core of our social political life, we are all determined and who we are seeking, it must be at the head of your policy to achieve... between free market, social justice and environmental responsibility. In this proposal there is no, I assure you, because we've done the calculations and we know what that means. We ask that the principles that are built into this law be to achieve the safety of rural production, as the most important goods that this country has in store for its heritage. There is no big difference between small business and rural family households. Because petty entrepreneurship if you multicipe times you don't know how many thousands that gives you great entrepreneurship, which is the principle of keeping us space settled, that every single one is interesting to us and that every production is recorded to us and yes. And now, yes, a little bit about the law, I say, where we absolutely cannot agree to the application of the law. The first group should certainly be welcomed, I wake up some other efforts that I propose to your ministry absolutely welcome. But I'm warning you, our basic mission was, and twice in this House, we suggested that we remove the welfare from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, because it doesn't belong to it. But if we've already introduced the first group as a target group, then we know that it has its own lifetime, its course, and it has to end somewhere in retirement, and it's not permanent social assistance. However, now with such an act as the other group is being introduced and another 5 hectares of land is being able to get 5,000 kuna support, I think that delusion is a great delusion for the Croatian peasants, who will certainly not fall for such a hoax. Because I assure you, and the bill says that with 5 hectares, the owner has about 50%, if we add up the total target population, which according to the population list, but that it produces, it actually owns 70% of the livestock stock, because the large ones that have gone from 20 hectares to more, didn't even accept that livestock and warfare are connected, let it spread, and it wants to be large owners of just farming, because cattle farming is an extremely complex branch of agriculture, which requires day-to-day employment of peasants. So, we in this group, if all of this were to get in and get into another group, we'd actually go for the state budget enormously large funds. So we ask you and our proposal is not to go with 5 hectares, let it be limited to either three who are the first social or two hectares and for the target group of nursing households who, on no other basis, do not have social benefits, so let it be called social pensions or national pensions, because the calculation says that one household that has 5 hectares or these 8.5 acres of land can still have up to 5 cows, 5 cows times 800 kuna accounts say that it has already achieved a one-off in a year incentive. If they produce, by chance, 3,000 gallons or 4,000 gallons of milk of 15, 16 thousand gallons of milk times 0.65 the minimum price of the bill says it's just a profit. If he's still got 2, 3 bodies 1,500 kuna, he's coming true. So we have to tell the people clearly, this glue or this bait doesn't need to be glued to by that family household that is in the production function and that still has the opportunity to move forward or stay on these 5 acres and experience a little bit of its possible end. That's why the second target group should be targeted, said, and for just such an age, I propose on behalf of the HSS Club that it be an age said, and that hectare be reduced so many households don't stick to it. I know you say it, so it's not an obligation. Of course it's not a commitment, but as long as it's in, there's no way out. And our people, when they read the law and find out what the law puts him up to, that's why the time has passed. That's why I would repeat that agriculture as an economic branch must become a healthy perspective above all human interest. We have this bill if we create, and you have said that your goal is a large family household of 400 thousand incomes, which is a household of at least 40 hectares of at least 40 cows, which must have 2 tractors of at least 100 thousand marks which, 100 thousand euros, it must still have a mechanism worth 2, 3 million kuna. I responsibly reject you of such an intention, because it is a ruin of the village, because it is a turning back in the sense where we have preserved both family and home and tradition and faith, and where we relyed mainly on a healthy peasant household to survive what this said all these gifts and inabilitys they were. That's why I would suggest that the government finds the strength to compose our bill. To someone who is strange, I have spoken in the same way in this bill of law in this House, even though the minister was from our party. In the same way, we have to propose laws in the sense of Europe, what Europe is sending us little bugs now, but Europe has one step or it has stopped or it is going backwards and it is going back to eco-social programs, to think about where this at least my contacts tell us that we have managed to save the environment, we have managed to save people and we have managed to save the habitats of these people because they have ruined the environment, they have ruined people because they have made them simply into cities and we have the goal of having this absorption of the unemployed who have reported to privatization in one way or another and they have ended up in the country as long as they live, they fight and are economically hard, constantly economic products, however vaguely I claim that they are still doing economic well. Furthermore, the HSS certainly won't accept it and it's beyond our simple philosophy to introduce restrictions or to confirm the imposed restrictions per hectare, meaning those three famous ones so as to raise the number of cows and all together. One can say that we started it, started it, but never applied it because when I passed such laws in the first row I sat down and said that this minister would surely fall, his lifetime would not be a mandate, but if he starts to apply it and if our peasant everyone won't get it. That's why I now suggest that you remove the three-hectare limit in one Subravina, in one Međimurje, in one Zagorje. There is an inaccessible figure where both bread and cattle grains can simply reach that number. Let's do a transitional period or ultimately shouldn't be even transitional, let's keep it permanent so that everyone can achieve an incentive that fairly sows, which fair harvests, reads with certain limits. I suggest that these are the reference offerings that we can agree on or we can't agree on but I suggest that they be at European level and there are no further problems, because these restrictions that have not yielded results either in size or in reduction because some have not sown and unfortunately received incentives. We all know that in the end. That's why I'm proposing that your proposal for a bill be a taste of what's possible at this point because it's a huge large population that has the right to inherit all the good from the state budget as well as the great one that this proposal is intended for. So let us not limit ourselves, let us not slow people down, but by some natural means, for imposing such a thesis certainly harms our society and certainly will not bring results. This is what they tell you in the finale of funds that have not been used repeatedly for permanent plantation since tradition is already said and it is difficult to change tradition. So I ask for understanding and that there will be no problem in the country because we representatives who come from these parts certainly cannot support it without an obligation whose party is who, because the village tells us that the village did not deserve after all of this to remain at bay and that it cannot inherit, for the second time I repeat, what belongs to it. Therefore, with the proposal for our amendments, there are other proposals possible, and we will see how we will vote when the law is passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12133	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative of Pecek and Kolar. In accordance with Article 207(2), The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Allow me a few words. I mean, I have to react to these exposures. First of all, I will look back at Mr. Pecek's exposure and I have never said at any point that too much imports are not one of the problems of Croatian agriculture as well as relatively smaller exports of Croatian products. And I agree, by liberalising the market, we need to create conditions, create products where, I was just talking about it in the last, previous presentation where we have to create and find our chance right now to take advantage of both the potentials and opportunities that have been opened to us precisely and on the contrary to liberalisation and free trade contracts. I absolutely agree that it's a freshwater fish, that it can and that it was once one of our export additives and that it's our chance. In these changes, we haven't gone to change the amount per kilogram for the simple reason, there are more reasons. We did not go for reasons because there is no incentive in the European Union and we do not want to, we want to keep it because it is one of our strategic branches but I want to get to know you that through the national quotas we have provided adequate resources that will be encouraged, means that in absolute terms it is possible to pay by each kilogram of fish produced. On average, the incentive for freshwater fishing was somewhere around 17 million kuna, while in the last year, I will say again, the justified reasons why fishing suffered great damage from the elementary drought was paid 13 million kuna. And what I would especially like to stress right now. It's not a freshwater fishing problem. He has a problem with something else. These are high water charges which, based on the use of water, are applied in Croatia while this is not the case in other European Union countries. For these reasons, we have already started certain activities in order to reduce these water charges for use in freshwater fisheries to some reasonable measure or to create conditions for it to be as in other European Union countries and I believe that this is a crucial issue of freshwater fishing. The other thing is, our ponds are abandoned. We need to make it possible to find financial resources to help those who are fishing to take out fishermen. The average of kilograms per unit of surface area is significantly smaller than our countries in the environment, and these are real problems and we are aware of one of our certainly strategic definitions and the development of freshwater fisheries because it is undoubtedly a product that has its own market and with which we can achieve a very good external trade balance. So in that direction we're going to go through some other series of measures. And now I have to look back at Mr. Kolar's exposure and... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'll say that later. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I said through this that we're going to take other measures, not just incentives to create conditions to make some production. There's a national quota and everything. I mean, I don't even know if to comment on what Mr. Kolar said. I also said in the opening statement, and in the previous presentation, I repeated. This isn't a new law, it's just a harmonisation of existing legislation, so the existing law. So should I repeat what this law was passed when it was passed and how it was passed? Does it mean anything? So I'm sorry, you say you haven't consummated any of the measures of minimal incentive. Well, gentlemen, which means that it is not under the current law we today cannot pay for the milk support to those producers under the current and still valid law we cannot pay for the support to milk producers that did not achieve 6,000 liters in the last year. So he's consummating, he's consummating, and we just want him, we see that these are certain problems, we see the need to determine a certain direction, and in that direction we're just trying to bring him in line with what we want. So we're the ones who are proposing a reduction in minimally stimulating quantities. We directly advocate certain products and, in that sense, change the existing law. The second thing, policy direction, agrarian reform, is that in these four years other than, other than agrarian reform, agricultural reform, implementation of reforms, reforms and changes in the Croatian village and in Croatian agriculture, is the necessity of gentlemen. And I am convinced that these and these measures respect the need and the phasing out of some products and here and here we go, extending that step but the direction must be shown, we must create the conditions that these agricultural producers can survive, that they can deal with this production. It's no use for anyone to let him stay on two cows right now and think he'll spend his whole life on two cows. It's been a while, unfortunately, a time of such agriculture has passed. And we continue a certain direction, we have our direction and our goal. And for how long, we'll see it, gentlemen, well, no one is eternal, no one, and no one is given to God that he should spend something if he has someone better or better-quality run this ministry. But I would also like to say that this ministry is that it is the highest respect of both the Parliament and the parliamentary representatives, that not so far any session, or any committee of parliament that has been held in relation to agriculture, without the presence of the Minister and his closest associates. At the end of the day and today's response from the ministry we're here with the main team, heading in the direction and we want to listen. And the following, we also contact direct manufacturers and associations, associations were on several occasions familiar with the proposal, and direction as I pointed out in my opening presentation, on which... in agriculture, there were no objections. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You may find some minor remark but in general looking, at the end of the day you saw it also at the committee session that representatives of associations have no objections. And thirdly that I want to make it clear and loud again, we want to lead this law and this policy in a realistically possible direction. We don't want to get paroled on cheap political moves, promise hills and valleys, and then not meet that obligation or leave someone else to do it. Gentlemen, the law is to be guided. The laws should be respected and implemented. We must not put ourselves in the situation in which we were brought in last year that, in accordance with the law, no national quotas have been established that incentives regulated by law have not been paid in accordance with the law. And now to hold on to others and to say that we are the ones who will reverse the Croatian kiss. No government, no ministry in such a short period of time has brought in so many strategic provisions for the development of agriculture. And the results in the field economy can't be seen in two or three months. They'll be seen in the future. And I believe that our producers will recognize it and be the ones who will eventually decide who will lead both the state and the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12135	I thank Minister Cobankovic. Before the next, before the next speaker, I use the opportunity to welcome children who are members of our children from Vukovar! ... On behalf of the promoter of the HSS Club, Honored Representative Kolar. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12136	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, Mr. Minister, I have not said in any word that this is a new law, I have said in my sentence never the consummated provisions in this law, and even though they were proposed until the new government, which is a saying, I now, by number and letters, will be the cancer for three counties of northwestern Croatia, expelled 46% of the users of the incentives. You remember well, please, I can speak responsibly about my county, about Međimurska and Zagorska, too, couldn't work three hectares, they didn't. Where you started to apply consistent law. We never consumed the law because we agreed that it would be an injustice, an injustice to apply it even though we were determined in one way or another. That's the first thing. And the reform in which direction did she go? The reform went into the hints and not to say in what way but keeping the village as an oasis and as a bright moment that it must remain the bearer of tradition, that it must preserve family and home. However, in this way we now propose we lose autonomy, autonomy because it is no longer a village would mean anything in this part. Reform as a reform, I've already said it 10 times in this House, so frozen a word that I never like to mention it, it has its course of duration, a lifetime, it has to be the instantaneous whim of a team, it can last 10 years and upgrade. That is why we are now directing you that this reform is taking place, that it has a gradualness, that it respects the facts that are on the ground and I assure you that the facts are on the ground, that the small peasant family host has a chance to survive in European frameworks as well. Because Europe no longer has the possibility of spreading, no more possibilities, no more territories simply where it would set up some kind of farmers, I don't know who, because now they're surprised when we get to a frame of one arranged place, one rural place that has all the multi-functional facilities of doctors, veterinarians, mayors, kindergartens, schools, that I'm not picking up at the end of the nogost, asvalt, water and sewers and all that. While in this way we are now forcing people to create farms somewhere in some kind of hacienda and to be a farmer. ... One application per thousand and 500 inhabitants where more than 10 hectares die have one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nemre. Because you'd have to suppress your neighbor to get to the ground. There's no state country to buy it, so how these villages survive. I'm asking you here. In this way that you are now proposing without incentives, without support, in what way, what funds do you use? And I have one more important thing to say. We in Europe see some bright moments. When we start to use these access funds, I probably don't budge anywhere or scream or walk around this country, because it's obviously going so slow as to see the Hungarians for 10 years, the Poles for 10 years and so on, for as long as it takes. That is why I would not be in a hurry and I suggest that we do not introduce any restrictions, that no bright examples in Europe, we do not see, because I assure you, Europe is moving backwards and slightly respects our specificities and does not force us into any integration or any major systems. So let's agree on this one, let's have this hectare, let's have that cow, you've already said a liter of milk, but that depends on the cow, because this one won't have one, last year because he had four cows and a sea, uh, 3 cows and he produced milk without any amount of restrictions. He could get a boost, and now he should get a 4 already. Summer 5 and so on. Let's say he has as much as he has, he determines if it's economical, he knows how to say it, not you. Because these accounts that happen somewhere in the cabinet, that's what the minister could say. It's for spacers, people walk the earth, the earth. Give a man a chance to calculate what he needs on earth. He should survive because they would do the worst if they were to now naturally select or impose this, which, which is now said to be those older ones who own the land that must now disappear. So we must give calm security to experience their age, in their family household. In what way? That's why I'm talking, and this other group should be a target group and so on. And your comment, you, I beg you in front of the high house, personally, keep to yourself, I have spoken on behalf of the HSS Club. I never speak for myself. As I speak for myself, they'll see what I think and what I want to say about agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12137	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative, Kolar. On behalf of the government, Minister Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12138	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen and Madam Representatives, I'll say one thing again, and someone liked it or didn't like it. While I am head of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, the Ministry will respect and consume applicable laws. I can't let any of the laws that pass this high house not consume or apply. Now, gentlemen, let me say a few things. In the seventh month of last year, amendments and additions to this Law were made. Then, when we talk about minimally encouraged quantities, intervention is done only on milk. Why? That's when the need for what you're talking about today was not respected. I am responsibly saying that this Ministry understands the problems of the Croatian village, understands the need for the rest of the people in the country and leads its policy in this direction. And I'll make that argument. I'll make an argument with more stuff. First of all, this ministry has formed a management for the sustainable development of rural areas. We've raised to the level of administration. In the budget we have provided 2 and a half times more funding for rural development programmes. I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12139	Please. ... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12140	I'm talking about facts. You have your comments, you, I, I don't blame you at all, nor do I mind that you have different opinions, different opinions and that you think that it's not enough, but if the fact isn't speaking; forming a administration, two-and-a-half times increasing financial resources and expanding programs that will monitor rural development don't speak for themselves then you choose on your own, I don't ask anyone to change their opinion, but I'm talking about facts, about facts. And, and the next gentlemen. You didn't consume. So we just paid off what's in force under the law, according to the current programs that we found and the valid register that came to the check-out. So don't tell us that we're the ones who eliminated, I don't know how many 45% of the previous users from, I don't know, Međimurje or any other county. Gentlemen, I'm asking you to step forward in public. And next. This measure, I was talking about, I believe it will certainly bring positive shifts, that it will lead to certain forms of better quality and better integration of agricultural producers through certain forms, and that this is what we do through the organisational scheme where in rural development we have also formed a department for, cooperatives and associations and that I am convinced of my positive shifts in the development of these environments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12141	I thank the minister. On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Zlatko Tomčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12142	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. To me, it seems to me that we should agree on what we're talking about first. It's simply here, Mr. Minister, without any insult to two schools, about two approaches, about two concepts. And for the 101st time, I'm gonna talk to this constituencies. Agriculture isn't just about agronomies, veterinarians, professions. Agriculture is for a peasant. A farmer, except for production, has other functions and roles in this society than the eagles and diggings. We are also talking about production in HSS, but we are also talking about these other roles of peasants in society. There's a difference between us, it's dry to talk about incentives, about support income, about two cows, three cows, and so on, about five acres, three acres, that's understood by peasants. That's attractive. It's simply attractive because it's about money. Money attracts everything. You as a minister must speak exactly of that other aspect. You're bound to say that. Because you are not in charge of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Croatian Government just to talk about production. You are primarily in charge of talking about changes in the country, about sociological aspects of changes in the country. This proposal you're talking about at first glance is very attractive to the peasants because, in addition to the first pillar of income support, the second pillar of income support is also received, and I say to you when you apply it and if it is applied for several years in two, in two years 70% of peasants will hang their baths on the wedge, 30% of the peasants will have entrepreneurs, and Croatian agriculture will no longer give Croatia what it has to give it. And we're actually coming up with a central theme. This isn't just about whether support is 1200 or 1500 kuna. Is it three acres or five acres? This is the question we must finally discuss here in the House. What does Croatia want with agriculture and what kind of agriculture does it want? We need to know that in the struggle these two schools have different thoughts. One represents the thesis: agriculture is an economic branch that provides food to the population and eventually allows some kind of export. Another school says that agriculture is an economic branch that has production related to itself and certain socially beneficial functions. Let's call it demographic potential. Let's call it cultural functions, call it ecological, geostrategic, it doesn't matter what we call it, but we need to know we're fighting between two concepts. To be an economic branch in which only entrepreneurs exist, this is your concept, obviously, and another concept that represents Kolar and HSS that it is an economic branch in which the peasant has generally recognised beneficial social functions. Now let's clear up the question of income support. The income support here is very receptive in your proposal. This income support cannot primarily be social and it is not social and must not be talked about income support as a social category. Income support is paying a farmer what he can't sell on the market. He can't even sell his product on the market sometimes. But he sells all those other functions to which no one Valorizes and for which no price is determined. He sells gentlemen dear and clean air and clean water and folk costume and cultural heritage, selling everything that happens in the country. He doesn't do it to sell it for food like that. And when he says he's doing it to live like that, that means he's keeping the identity of this country's space and so on. So the subject is much wider. The theme is not so simple and the topic cannot be observed whether we will have two three three five acres and so on. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you nicely for the dignity of the people watching you don't speak the time of the two cows has passed. It didn't go through, and it's not going to work that way. do not talk about that agriculture is exclusively an economic branch of entrepreneurial character, agriculture is something else, and farmers understand it very well. So what's at stake in your bill of law is very attractive, it's actually going to prove to be a complete disaster. It will prove a disaster that this country will lose its rural identity, that it will remain without further depopularizing the village, that young people will not want to stay in the country, that we will endanger the low demographic potential we have. That we would lose additional and productive export potential. 'Cause don't forget the big crop production on the big surfaces in the big stables doesn't care about the nest, neither about the birth nest, nor about the snakes, nor about the frogs, nor about the snakes, nor about the frogs, nor the frogs and mosquitoes of Europe will lose. We're talking about natural balance. We're talking about an environment that needs to be preserved. And now someone's gonna say that he's up for mosquitoes now, both frogs and snakes, and he doesn't care what happens to a peasant. Oh, my people, that's what it's all about. It's got to be understood that the multifunctionality of agriculture is being brought in. It must be understood that agriculture cannot exist and that it cannot give to the state and society those uncharging functions if no one will pay for it. The one who pays for that ministry of agriculture, or the state budget, must understand that it does not provide assistance, that it does not give social services, but that it pays what the farmer really deserves. Although it would be easy to solve problems in agriculture, Europe has not suffered for years to solve problems in agriculture. Well, Europe wouldn't be running all sorts of stories about the concepts of large entrepreneurs, and now it's going to small businesses in agriculture. Europe would not spend 50% of its funds on agricultural agrarian if this situation were not complicated. YES, and Europe is in certain doubts, and I will illustrate here with one quote from a consultation, which took place in Europe. So not in transition countries, but in Europe among Member States. So he says like this, subsidies, customs, impositions, quotas are basically good, but the shortcomings of the common agricultural policy have already been shown. It's about the common agricultural policy of Europe. Production is becoming more and more intense, and more complex instruments are being established to protect the internal market and surpluses are growing. In 2000, the Agenda establishes a new agrarian policy that brings stability of income and standards to the peasants but also increases competition. However, protectionism remains, as the opposite side of increasing this competition. And protectionism can also be recognized by the fact that 10 new countries of the European Union and I stress this I am not saying this as a Eurosceptic but as a euro realist will get a full right to access development phonods in agrarian for 10 years. So the question of what's waiting for us and when's he waiting for us? So Europe wouldn't have that kind of thinking, that kind of dubiosis, and this citation ends with an opportunity like this essentially it's a big help but not to be competitive and innovative and to sew the soil and the environment. About 50% of the European Union's total budget goes to a farmer in the most divided countries of the European Union. What is a political game, with the possibility of conflict breaking out between regions and international conflicts. I'm just quoting this for one fact to point out how complicated the relationship in the farm is. Not only for those of us who are just beginning to create a balance in agriculture, but also in Europe, which is investing billions and billions of euros in it. Well, if that's the case, if we're aware of it, then let's not get stubborn and try to be objective and wake up. With this less money proposal of yours, it actually seems to satisfy a larger number of people. Income support requires less money than incentive. The only solution is to significantly reduce these high standards to the incentive by the number of hectares and by the number of liters of milk, and by all the things I don't understand. But I understand what I'm talking about, they have to cut those high-stards so that little and big peasants can survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12143	Thank you, dear representative Zlatko Tomcic. On behalf of the Proposer of Minister Cobanković.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12144	Here's a quick excuse, I won't answer anymore. But let me just say one more thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12145	I beg you for peace. Proposer representatives have the right to take the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12146	I absolutely appreciate thinking, thinking, thinking everyone has the right to their own opinion, to their philosophy, to their school. But I don't want you to say in my name what kind of a member of this school I am. I speak for myself, I speak for the Ministry, I speak for the Croatian Government. And the next thing I want to say. I am ready today if there is time and space to open a full debate on Croatian agriculture, on all aspects of sociological, economic aspects. And this is a belief for me personally, and for this ministry and for the government to make this law a quality shift. And according to that, I just want to say one more thing, that one thing is to talk and the other is to make arguments and deeds that are done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12147	Thank you, thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the HSS Club, the esteemed representative Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12148	Allow me, I'll say it from the scene. With my debate, Mr. Minister, I wanted to draw attention to this half-empty assembly and to the Croatian public that the issue of this law is not a dry subject of the size of incentives and distribution of these incentives, but rather a complicated sociological question that determines the future of not only Croatian villages but rather a little wider. So please, you represent your school, I will represent my school. But I haven't had a moment in my life to take that right away from you, and you in the last sentence are trying to take away my right to me. That's where we won't agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12149	Thank you. Before the next speaker, one notice. The meeting of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget will be held today at 13:30 in hall 149, first floor. And finally club IDS, the esteemed representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12150	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. First of all, it should be correct and try to acknowledge that as opportunities in Croatia improve from year to year, this also increases incentives. It was also clear that in those wartime, I don't know, after years when the Republic of Croatia's budget was 3 or 4 times less than this year's, the incentives were understandablely lower. I agree with the minister when he says that the agricultural revolution we cannot expect in this country in six months, six months, or one year. But it should also be said, regardless of these bickerings that have just been heard, that no one in the country can have a monopoly on, under quotes, representing the thesis on agriculture. However, as we experience, the alpha and omega of Croatian agriculture are not and cannot be the only incentives but above all land policy, and those who think that from an average 2.8 hectares as much as the average property in the Republic of Croatia is, the Croatian peasant can be competitive to anyone, it is wrong. Croatian peasant, Croatian village, Croatian agriculture, regardless of incentives with a size of 2.8 hectares, will not survive. As, unfortunately, there can be no small trade over the invasion of large trade chains, if this agriculture is not followed in some way by the state, and unfortunately by certain branches of the state, by the insatiable throat rather than by the latter. Let me just mention the monumental rent when the store is in the middle of it. As Croatia enters the European Union, it is certain that the pressure on this trade, whether on our agricultural products or on agriculture, will grow from year to year. To the side at this time relatively and, I will say, acceptable Protocol 7 to the Republic of Croatia. On the side and slightly larger quotas for the export of Croatian products, Croatia has nothing to export at this time or will play a crucial role itself. Incentives will, above all, help the naked survival of large agricultural systems which are obviously not in the future, under quotes, save themselves as an ideal front for the private interests of the furniture that guide them. Therefore, I repeat, condicio sine qua non Croatian agriculture must primarily be a solution to this agricultural land status. In order to do so, it is necessary firstly, clearly, to train the offices of the state administration by county to which no jurisdiction or influence has been conferred on the county, the county assembly or the like. For this at this point, the other bodies of the state authorities must be trained, from the catastra, through the grantovnica, etc. In accordance with Article 13. The agricultural land law, in the County of Istria, has been in place since 94. We've divided somewhere over 5,000 acres of agricultural land from the failed agricultural combinations to our residents. This allowed for example. From Italy, it brings back hundreds of families who through the process of the country or some other cultures have solved their existence in a very good way. This, with the incentives first of all of the county, and then this country, too, I dare say, is a wine olive renaissance in Istria. It is enough to mention, for example, one Degrassia, Kozlovic, Metosevic, Arman, Sirotic, Ravalik, Katunara, now the young oil team from Chiavaloni, further, who have somehow become the trademark of these areas. It is mentioned enough that the County of Istria with all problems, for example, which were with the Pulski mlkar, increased milk production in 10 years by 4 to 5 times. Which is a unique case in Croatia, but without resolving the status of the agricultural land, these young people cannot draw incentives which is a disaster, absolutely. So on purpose, I would even dare say, it stops the development of agriculture in that area, and these people in some way put themselves in an unequal position in relation to their competition. About raising new pests, let's just say in that context, I'm not talking. State, the country is truly generous when, for example, For 1 hectare of vineyards, it gives 28 thousand kuna, and now it increases by 20%, which is about 35,000 kuna. Yes, for example, the County of Istria gives a third to 50% at the purchase of seedlings in the county, cities and municipalities in Istria give another third to 50% for these same seedlings. Plus, it will soon allow for the machine planting of these vineyards. So we can say that by a hectare it can be a fee of 50, 60, 70,000 kuna. And it's not really a game. There is no such thing, I say, neither in Italy nor in not so far from Austria, regardless of whether these countries are 5, 6 or 7 times richer than the Republic of Croatia. For that reason and for all that, last year, for example, 350 thousand vines of wine were planted in Istria by farmers plus 150 thousand at Istravine, or Agrolagune. Somewhere around 500 thousand which may be 40% of the total crops planted in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It was the same with the olives. The state gives, if I'm not mistaken, 20,000 kuna, now plus 20% more. The county and Istrian municipalities, the cities give seedlings so that they are respectable funds, and within 10 years, about 300 thousand olive trees were planted, which is certainly 50% of the total amount of that culture planted in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. But I repeat once again, condicio son qua non, in that space which has been hit by a terrible exodus in the post-war period, I will once again say it's land. And respected gentlemen from the ministry. One thing I think is to understand. The biggest problem with this government, your ministry, means agriculture, and even not these budget ones, is how someone calls them skeletons that are now falling out of a closet that increases the central state deficit. I already think that the biggest problem is the current government on the one hand, the economy, on the other hand. Gross social product was achieved at 91% of the year 89 in 2003. Or industrial production in this country last year was 40% lower than the one in 1989. It's over, it's free to say six months to the new government, and we're all gonna say in one big expectation. Okay. This protocol 7 has been completed, absolutely as successful as possible. We are facing these incentives, which again provides a billion 665 million kuna in the budget, increasing certain categories for agriculture, fishing, which is also not bad. How, though, do you direct these incentives, to which cultures do you direct them? Let's just say one perhaps banal example to mention the export of tuna, which may not be the most ecological to say grown on the Adriatic, but it participates in the total exports of Croatian agriculture with 10% or maybe the value of that tuna is 50% of the total wheat produced in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So, I'm saying that when fishing is in the process, and it's a purely export branch, it's far more important maybe at this point to solve it than to deal with the status of an ecological fishing zone, which we're withdrawing, as it's far more important to encourage I don't know, building a domestic fishing fleet than perhaps at this time to think about the ecological zone. I'll be back on this one again, but not to forget to mention the Istrian cattle now, better said our boxers. For 2003, the incentives were 50% lower than in earlier years, namely 3 thousand 500 kuna in 2002, if I'm not mistaken for 7 thousand kuna. Okay, now this team in the government will say, at the time they weren't in power, but I really ask the ministry gentlemen to make extra effort and increase the fee to the height when the Bosniaks were due to Istrian cattle on the one from 2002. Not only was the 2003 fee cut by 50%, but even that 2003 was not paid and was paid a few months ago and I was asked by those breeders to thank the ministry. In Istria at this time we have 180 breeding cattle and Istrian breeds, it is a highly endangered breed of it note bene does not benefit anything other than manure, it is threatened with disappearance as an Istrian breeding sheep, which should also be subsidized. Protection of indigenous breeds is important for preservation as Mr. Tomcic previously spoke of the traditional values of identity is important, I will say for the preservation of the identity of the rural space of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore believe that indigenous varieties should be subsidized in a special way. Let's just remember what kind of battle we fought with neighbouring Slovenia to show as the original Croatian breed, let's say the Istrian sharp-haired and short-haired gonic, but what I'm saying is, these dogs like that promenade as one Zagorje turkey or I don't know some other varieties are part of the identity, not only Zagorje, Istria, Dalmatia, Slavonia, but the Republic of Croatia. To return to another important segment when agriculture, i.e. when fishing is the result, and it has value for me as incentives, these are credits, not only for large neighbours, but for small farmers, fishermen, because more and more are small people, young people I wanted to say include in that branch, and clearly processing the country as it once seemed, is simply without huge resources, so Kolar mentioned earlier that one tractor cost 50,000 euros, which is actually true. So, not only that, but we should try to finance the municipalities if we want to build a fishing infrastructure, if we want to build fish markets, etc. Based on the fact that Istria has made some money, it has withdrawn from the European Union and neighbouring Italy. But what's more important is that this matter is due to the fact that the farmers of the gentlemen at this point do not end up in bankruptcy. Why? In the last few months or the last few weeks, we've faced a huge problem in a better way. Clearly, by financial means, which affects 12 thousand 700 citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are employed or retired, and additionally have registered agricultural activities, i.e. some crafts. These people are now getting tax rulings on charges from 14th to 15th thousand kuna contributions for 2003. In my court, late retroactive, flat-rate contributions are being made to farmers and craftsmen for amounts they have not earned at all, and this problem should in some ways be resolved clearly in favour of craftsmen and farmers, because otherwise this problem will turn into a huge injustice for these people. I think it's kind of the key to this law, more specifically, to getting a taxpayer into the system now with income tax. The second refers to the model of division of the economy, the two groups, which is certainly a European model, but everything that works in Europe would be said by Mr Kolar, does not mean that it will automatically operate in the Republic of Croatia. It is good that from now on you are encouraged for example for strawberries, healing flavouring plants, vegetables, etc. They're increasing, some new cultures are being introduced. It may turn us back to some vegetable cultures, but I only said maybe. But I'll be back in time. "Croatian agriculture" is running out of time, especially when agriculture is due. Croatia will enter the European Union, there is no dispute. It will most likely be 2009. But what will then be the negotiating position of Croatia's agriculture, which remains to be seen. Whether we stay on these sizes and whether we stay on existing quotas or whether we will be allowed to develop in the meantime. Some friends suggested that the article 10 should include mushrooms. They say, if, for example, clams, strawberries, onions, carrots, cycles are encouraged, I don't know what they have nothing against, then they say they should and mushrooms, they can be a significant export product. My parents in Istria are now beginning to think about commercial cultivation, even truffles, working on it with Professor Bosca. Whether it will work I don't know, a white truffle can't grow, but perhaps it's better if that delicacy might remain unfathomable to scientists. We see a reduction in penalties for those who give incorrect information. Why does it seem, I don't know. But maybe it's not that bad, because we know for a fact what kind of people, the poor one, are actually talking about. The key problem of Croatian agriculture once again I will say is land policy, in this field everything stands and repeat time is not our ally, time is the greatest opponent I dare tell your ministry and government. No one has the right to wait, and no matter how ungrateful he is in the business, no matter how much he is, the people who will carry the project will surely be called. It is clear here that we should talk about incentives, loans, exports, circled property, I said about the protection of auktokton cultures, breeds, pension reform. LIBRE Club, if I'm not mistaken, mentioned this legacy law, there's a buy-in of wholesalers, a boost in menfactory production because last year's imports were a billion and 200 million dollars in U.S. dollars. There is the same as how to maintain Croatian trade, etc., etc. All in all, from year to year, more funds are provided but the situation in agriculture is simply not corrected and it is simply not possible to solve the problem overnight especially if the state country is not divided. In Croatia, if I'm not mistaken, there's about 8%. In the county of Istria from 30 and something to... Over 45%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why is that? Because I said, the result of the exodus. People are gone, there's the rest of the country, there's a clear question... It's settled from 65, but if we want to keep these people who stayed in the country today, we have to give them a simple way to work, which they can do if they come into possession of the country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It, however, must not become clearly the subject of speculation, speculation, nor become the subject of land trade. It must be in the function of agriculture. So if someone wanted to sue her, turn her into a construction or if they were changing the gauges around some cities that country has to come back again, I'm going to say, I don't know the state or local self-government or otherwise let's think about giving agricultural families in long-term 60-year leases to that country so that at least two generations can be tied to her. But I also want to say, municipalities and cities, the county doesn't have a single square meter of farmland since 93th, they don't have a single square meter of forest land, the county doesn't have a single square meter of either agricultural, forest, tourist land, I don't know what kind of land, and that problem can only be solved by the state. And finally, when I see that out of those billions of 660 million kuna incentives to Istria waste, the Primorje-Gorski County is extremely few. If only there were only one company that withdraws funds of more than 5 million kunas, not counting the TDR that specifically pulls about 45 million kunas, then be brave and simply engage in the system because it might benefit them. I repeat, gentlemen, please try to raise that fee, that subsidy for Istrian cattle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12151	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative Caine. On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, Honored Representative Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12152	Honorable Vice President, distinguished prime ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. We are pleased to see agriculture finally found on the agenda of this House of Commons, even through changes to the law on state support in agriculture, fishermen and forestry, but I regret that we have again confused the order and are changing the law which is certainly the most important but unfortunately the last link in the chain. In 2001, the Croatian Parliament passed a Law on Agriculture, which is a fundamental law stipulating that agricultural policy is implemented under the national programme for agriculture and rural areas. The national programme is being developed by the government, brought by the Croatian Parliament for a period of up to 5 years. And this is precisely the national programme that contains short and medium-term objectives, measures, timelines and deadlines for achieving these objectives, and in particular the sources of money to implement agricultural policy measures. Money incentives and compensations are determined according to the very national programme we do not have at this time. My colleagues and colleagues like the last government did not comply with the laws proposed by this home and which were bound by the new government, unfortunately, does the same. Instead of first drawing up this House and adopting a national programme as a basis for agricultural policy, only the programme guidelines on which this Law is based and the amendments on which this Parliament is not informed, and from this and today's conflict of concepts. The year-to-year incentives, in '95 we invested 482 million in incentives, in 2000 it was already a billion 232 million. Almost a billion 665 million were planned for this year. They aim to create a stable economic environment, a competitive agricultural sector and remove barriers to economic growth. Unfortunately, the effect of this monetary growth is counterproductive to the results of production. We have neither achieved more and more sufficient production nor more competitive overalls. Croatia only five products products in sufficient quantities. Croatia still lacks almost 50% of the fruit, 25% of the beef, 20% of the pork, 20% of the milk, 30% to 40% of the oil, and I don't want to count any more. We continue to point to the problem of over-indulgence of what was argued in one part of the figures yesterday by fellow Lonacar, but we do not parallelly point to the problem of over-exportation. If a national agriculture programme had been adopted, he would have to clearly answer who it is today or what tomorrow will be the Croatian products in which we will invest, create them recognizable, which we will encourage and export. Are these war products and what are these products? Which part of the livestock industry or processing industry has the most chances. What measures we'll achieve. How to strengthen the market and competitiveness of Croatian products on the domestic and European market when on the one hand we meet budgetary constraints, on the other hand high food quality standards and high expectations regarding ecosystems and the preservation of rural space. When I mentioned what we do not produce in Croatia in sufficient quantities, I mentioned pork that is not missing almost 20%. And for months now, we've been talking about extra pigs in the field. This is proof that there is no regulated market for agricultural products but we are a typical example of market anarchy where 40% represents the gray market. Today, in developed European countries, every head of cattle, every spring, every sale, slaughter and death is recorded. All that is not covered by those records is a grey economy and subject to a number of sanctions. We are dominated by disorder and absurd in the meat and cattle market. What's the point, for example? that keeping a cat or a dog must be recorded and reported and at the same time you may have 30 sterns or 50 cows somewhere in the suburbs and there is no record of it and no answer to anyone. I stress this for two reasons, it is one objection under the terms of the European Union, it is just an unsettled agricultural statistics, and another to point out that there are no incentives for market infrastructure that involves the organisation of the transport of agricultural products, which is what happens to us that the products that are just encouraged do not find a market or buyer or, according to us, a so-called known buyer. The importance of encouraging, the creation of infrastructure stems from another important fact related to the application of the Law on Incentives in Agriculture. By 2007, all users of incentives will have to be in the VAT system. The method of keeping tax documentation and education for 145 thousand current economies enrolled in the register and users of incentives is necessary to start already today. If we do not do this ourselves, the Agency will force us to pay and use support funds to control the payment of incentives in accordance with European Union rules and on the basis of quality guided documentation and credible data. Price policy here has already been mentioned. She's certainly a problem to herself. What about the target, guaranteed minimum prices? What about the market lines? We are preparing to join the European Union which really has the same incentives for all cultures but therefore each country has its own additional national incentives. I cite an example of Austria that encourages supplemental soybeans, oily tails, pumpkins, peas and so forth. In addition to defined technology, defined production costs and yields are defined additional national incentives. We'll have quotas that satisfy self-sufficiency, but gentlemen, no one forbids us to encourage the processing of so many thousands of tons of wheat in the processing of ethanol. So many thousands of tons of potatoes to make into starch, so many thousands of tons of oilseed turnips into biodiesel. Where are the incentives for processing? What about land aimed at the non-food chain, which Europe is good for? How to resolve excess wheat in corn when we are currently importing ethanol, import starch, and we have excess raw materials for that production. A new group of beneficiaries of income of 5 thousand kuna per year is being introduced which should be an alternative for national pensions for the most vulnerable and most sensitive combination of the elderly population who do not, who do not make any form of monetary income but are not in the first category that has been restricted for years, the status of active pension insurance and minimally stimulating quantities. Not only is the second group questionable because of the ambiguity of who can use it but it still mobilises part of the support intended to create the competitiveness of agriculture and increase production and does not release agricultural land as much as possible to increase the limit from 5, from 3 to 5 hectares, which is precisely producing counterproductive effects because, by limiting 3 hectares, it should go to liberating areas for those going to market competition. Why are we avoiding an early retirement model that supports the European Union, which is currently achieving these objectives on the one hand, while on the other hand ensuring safety, a decent standard of living for small, uncompetitive economies, and why we are finally running away to say the real name: national pension. What the National Minority Club estimates is very positive in this Act is strengthening support for intensive working cultures; fruit growing, viticulture, vegetable production and seed production and Mediterranean cultures. By the time we enter the European Union, it is necessary to increase the area under the orchards because although statistics record nearly 70,000 hectares of real condition, we have only 6 thousand hectares of productivity at this time. The same situation is with vineyards where the wine cadastre speaks of 13 thousand vineyards neatly recorded, and official statistics about 60 thousand hectares. It would be tragic for these productions to be obtained on the basis of such a record of the European quota. But not only because of Europe, it is necessary to do this for the sake of new employment and the creation of safer income and greater profit. My colleagues and colleagues! I'll go back to the front one more time. I hope that a green report by the Ministry of Agriculture and possibly the National Programme for Agriculture and Rural Areas will finally give a clear picture of the state of our agriculture's economic situation, measures to increase production and competitiveness, space protection, land policy and important socio-demographic measures in the rural area. The more the minister has promised today, the more he has already pledged to consume the applicable laws and his deadline is June 30th. I hope then we can respond to the conflict of today's concepts, that agriculture is an economic branch, that the village is a rural area. One must have its own measures, but by coordinating it, it achieves the best quality of life in preserving the ethno space of tradition and everything that binds us to the village. Until then, the only thing left to support is this law and so incomplete because it's the only thing we can do right now for agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12153	I would like to thank the esteemed representative Chuhnell. On behalf of the HNS PGS Club, a respected representative of Željko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12154	Dear Vice President, esteemed ministers and assistants, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! The final bill defines more precisely non-commercial and commercial households. Non-commercial households are the only ones with a total production volume of three production units. They chose that status on their own. If they meet further conditions when they select this status, it is unchangeable. Non-commercial households would be divided into two groups: the first group is the same as so far except for the maximum property used, increased from 3 to 5 hectares. This group is making 12,000 kunas, so far 7 grand and 200. According to the holder and the member, if they meet the conditions of age, the insurance companies of pension agricultural insurance shall not exceed 5 hectares of land for use. And the maximum amount per household is 24,000 kuna. They have to, they don't have to be in the system of income taxes. Would it be necessary by regulations to solve what it means to use? Is it just owning or really using? Further ownership of a maximum of 5 hectares is relatively large when it is known that the average ownership of the family holding in Croatia is 2.8 hectares. This provision shall apply from 31.12.2004. The second group of non-commercial households when it comes to income support is, in fact, social aid or senior national pension. Because that amount of 5 thousand kuna per year is given to those who are retired farmers, unemployed or pension insurance bonds as farmers unless they meet the age conditions. Fifty years for women, 55 for men. So I can be older or younger. The disadvantage of such a form consists of the fact that such households receive funds from the budget, have no obligation to produce on land. So the land can be abandoned. They have no obligation to rent land to other households except for the difference above 5 hectares if they use more than 5 hectares. Certainly this form of protection of small households is necessary and meaningful, but the issue of conditions under which this support can be achieved taking into account the need to round up private-owned properties and land, which is 80% in the Republic of Croatia. The new income support system shall apply from 1.1.2005. Commercial households: Commercial households are all listed in the PG register except those who have chosen the status of income support, i.e. the status of non-commercial households. When it comes to the production incentive model relating to this household group, the changes are related to the introduction of new cultures, for example. Strawberries and an increase in the amount of annual payment incentives for vineyards from 1,250 to 2,500 kuna. Fruit groves from 1,250 to 2,500 kuna. The rise of new vineyards from 28,000 kuna to 37,800. On special national care at 33,600 and 45,400 respectively for special care orchards, 20,000 first group and 14,000 second group. At 24,000. 32,400 special care and first group 16.800 and 22,700 special care. The second group increased the amount to stimulate the healing plant from 1,250 to 3,000 kuna. The change is in olives, the incentive is now paid by the tree, and the proposal is to be paid per litre of oil, which means that the production is worth a minimum boosted amount of 100 liters. A minimum milk-promoted quantity has been abolished and is introduced only since 2005 but not exceeding 12 000 litres and due to the quota fixed in the European Union. Incentives are introduced for fruit material that is better developed and increased from one kuna to 2-5 kuna. 5 kuna vines, 4 kuna fruit with a certificate, 2 kuna fruit standard, which is a problem because we know that we have 90% of the seedlings without a certificate, so we should throw it out. It's a completely different calculation and incentive for seed crops. Everything goes by weight already on the surface, provided that the holding is listed in the seed producer's register. Incentives shall be introduced for the production of seed nerasta or bulls. A good move is an incentive for vegetables without a built-in culture structure, which was completely unnecessary. A particularly good move is the introduction of additional incentives for breeding throats and the link to the promotion for meadows and pastures, but it is not clear whether the incentive for meadows and pastures of 100 kuna per hectare is achieved only for breeding throats and not for all cattle. As so far drowned in domestic origin, they have an increase of 800 per thousand kuna per throat. The issue of origin-related production and possible malversion, and imports from 800 to 400 kuna import. This measure is excellent but with the creation of a high-quality stock base, which, unfortunately, is now not the case, so no one will buy cattle legally registered because of the detachment of stamps. There remains a problem of non-commercial households, which are potentially gray market, because they have a agricultural product, for example, in the case of 5 hectares, for example, a small quantity outside the system and a base that can potentially endanger real producers in the production incentive system. When it comes to livestock, all livestock, regardless of the status of the economy, must be entered into the central database otherwise there is chaos on the market. There's an incentive for rabbits. The economies with more than 25 thousand kuna incentives for 2004 will have to go into the income tax system and prove this in the adoption of an incentive application in 2004. In 2006, all rural holdings that are in the production incentive system must be included in the income tax system. This provision, when linked to the Income Tax Act, assumes entering the VAT system because the Income Tax Act prescribes that the system is, income tax must be entered by farmers who are in the VAT system. The question arises whether this provision is in line with the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Croatia. The economies receiving more than 78 thousand kuna incentives will account for a proportional reduction of 4% as well as for who will implement the entry into force since 1.1.2005 but has been extremely applicable since 1.1.2004. That provision is unclear. All increases in the amount of incentives other than for such calves and heroes shall apply from 1.1.2005. Obviously no budgets are provided, the question is whether there's money for everything. The agricultural inspection goes to the ministry, the general centralisation of the inspection is not a good move because very poor monitoring is carried out due to the fact that enrolment in the area is a county, so the continuing problem is insufficient communication with inspections that are already centralized: wine, livestock, forestry, etc. The HNS and PGS club will support these changes of incentives that have really been greatly improved compared to the previous ones, but we have witnessed that with incentives we have failed to increase production, so we need to look at all those problems in the agrarian. Until we solve these problems as well as improve and target production with incentives, the agrarian will certainly not have success. Problem number one is rounding the land. Problem number two is taking out the catastrophe. Number three, stock exchange system wholesalers. These are just one of the basic problems without which we can't even imagine progress in agrarian. The next period must mark the recovery of production to produce enough for the domestic market, and through tourism we improve the supply of quality products by which we can also be recognized in Europe. We believe that the ministry needs to move to real reforms as soon as possible to train the domestic agrarian for quality and sufficient production to please all of us. I have two amendments to ask the Minister and the Assistant Minister. One is farmers who have land outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia i.e. in neighbouring countries, it should allow that land to enter the land quota if necessary to achieve the incentives. I think we'll solve this problem with our amendment if you haven't solved it by now. And we have another one, as far as blue fish are concerned, as far as I'm concerned, I think from 0.35 lip to 0.55 lip, it was correct to help fishermen in this way that it was very important for them and for the purpose of restoring a fleet that was in catastrophic condition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12155	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative of Kurt's. It is the turn of the HSP club, a respected representative of Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12156	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored gentlemen from the Ministry of Agriculture. Our club of representatives has a number of objections, but of course also individual praises to this law which has partly adopted the ideas and amendments that our club of representatives has given in the previous session of the current Agricultural Support Act that we are now changing. What is crucial here is that, in our court of law, income support should not fall under this law, they should be regulated by a special law, because the social care in the country is not the job of the Ministry of Agriculture. We are all referring to the European Union, to European standards,... in fact, it deals with the full development of rural areas, and not through the Ministry of Agriculture in the countries concerned, but through the combined efforts of the complete government in the Member States of the European Union, which are trying to make life easier in rural areas different kinds of incentives, various types of state subsidies, tax reliefs. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're holding that this part of income support shouldn't actually be there and that this should be a law that should exclusively be dealt with by agricultural production. On the other hand, we believe that it is a mistake that has not been done so far to encourage those agricultural households who cannot follow the competition equally and which can therefore not meet such strict conditions imposed by the Ministry of Agriculture. Therefore, in all the countries of the Union it is very clear that the Ministry of Agriculture provides certain conditions for the farmer to be encouraged, and these conditions are of course the ability of that agricultural producer and its ability to carry out an annual work with its production capacities and to produce the planned and contracted quantity of goods. Of course, in countries where this is not possible in households where this is not possible, there is, of course, a part of the farmer who can't track it and which, in turn, falls out of the whole story. For them, our Club of Representatives proposed the introduction of a agricultural social card in the last term, so we suggest that for those agricultural households that can't follow the competition a farming social card that would make it easier for them to buy repromaries, which would make it easier for them to purchase agricultural equipment and generally make life easier in the country, and I believe that it should be regulated through a special law. The problem of this law and the problem of the general system of fostering agriculture in Croatia is the WTO, i.e. the obligations Croatia has made by entering the WTO, which is to reduce the total amount of its incentives from 194 to 136m euros per year within 7 years. We must carry out this reduction procedure, because this is how the Croatian delegation negotiated with the WTO. But on the other hand, this means that we have to use very rationally the resources left for incentives and, of course, those branches of agricultural and fishing production that contribute most to exports. So here I must now relate to the fishing spoken of by one of my predecessors. It's about that. It's about tuna exports. We only make 80 million dollars a year on tuna exports to Japan. The total income from the export of tuna from the export of caught blue fish, bred white fish, from fish cans, therefore the total exports of Croatian fisheries amount to approximately $163 million annually. It is about figures that are significant enough that Croatia has to focus specifically on this branch of the economy and encourage it more, I repeat, because fishing is definitely the export branch of the Croatian agricultural and fishing sector. And that is why we welcome that this law finally removes the upper limit of incentives against which we have protested and the last time this law was adopted, and that is precisely because it made it difficult for the fishing industry to survive and it made it equally difficult to export. The application of the free trade agreement significantly reduces the competitiveness of domestic production in aquaculture, and domestic fishing industry. Approved quotas for fish and processing on exports to the Union market limit our export potential. And therefore, the restriction of incentives for domestic fish processing plants has indeed been devastating. We're glad this government spotted it and removed it. However, what is the general reason for most of the requirements for greater incentives is that farmers are trying to seek greater incentives to compensate through a higher price, i.e. through greater incentives, the fact that often unsettled logistics is related to the purchase, related to placement, related to storage. Often, fishermen insist on increasing fish prices. When a man sees better what the problem is, then we come up with a startling data on how many refrigerators Croatia actually has to pay for a kilo of fish in the freezer. Let us face the fact that Croatia in a thousand islands and along this long coast has only 2,000 and 700 metres of operational coast for fishing vessels, which means that fishermen, as well as farmers, are also trying to compensate for all these losses through the higher price of their agricultural product, all the nebulosis and lack of logistics that this country should have to facilitate their life and production. So whenever it comes to the demand for greater incentives, make sure that it is a firefighting measure and that one part of that work can be done through better national logistics, or through the reduction of water charges already spoken of here through the reduction of VAT on agricultural equipment, through clearer buy-in regulations, through cheaper storage of products and the like. Here, however, it must especially relate to the whole Masalinarism story for a number of reasons. Ever since the World Food Fair of Siel, which was at the end of 2002 in Paris, it has been quite clear that one of the world’s food hits is olive oil. However, this fair in Paris in 2002, despite many olive oil producers from all over the world, and even from our neighbouring Slovenia and Macedonia, has passed without a representative of Croatia. So much for Croatia to care for olives, so much for Croatia's initiative to win that part of the market, or the production of olive oil. And that's why to me, dear gentlemen of the Ministry, that's one thing, but it's not clear at all. Come on, we're glad that you've increased the incentive for olives per kilogram, which is closer to the incentives in the European Union than one euro per litre of olive oil, so it's good to go to kuna per kilo of produced olives, but we're really amazing that you have a maximum limit of 35 kilograms of produced olives per tree here. Well, you don't expect people to cut branches with axes, because they produced more olive trees per tree, or because they worked around their olive trees? Did we really get there? Also, in Croatia it is constantly said that we must encourage the planting of olive trees. In 1910, Croatia had about 13 million olive trees. Today we have 4 times less or 3 times less, somewhere between 3 and 4 million trees. The exact data is really not known what is another of the special achievements of the Croatian state, which is that we do not even know how many olive trees we have. Before entering the Union, we must plant everything we can, no more planting after entering the Union. If we want to reach that target figure of the 13 million olive trees we had in the days of Austria-Hungarian, then we have to plant at least 3 million olive trees annually. And now I'm asking you which surfaces and with which seedlings. Who will produce 3 million seedlings a year and on which surfaces we will work together. There is, of course, the possibility of planting these olives on the hot surfaces. In doing so, every year, every summer, all the olive groves and even the association of defenders who worked on special olive planting programs. But every year the same story is repeated again, the conflict with the Croatian forests that want to forestify and eventually the whole thing just lies down. So, if we really want to ensure Croatia's export of olive oil, if we want to take up our space on the international market for olive oil and consolidated olives, then this year, gentlemen from the ministry should be the last one in which we read in the paper that on the burned surfaces can't get a concession for olive cultivation. I mean, we're not interested in speculative ideas in HSP. We are interested in concrete projects and this is the answer from your ministry whether this year will finally be able to obtain concessions on the hot surfaces for planting new olive groves. Of course, there's a problem with the register. We had two years in a row register that was only spent two months a year, unlike Slovenia where it was spent continuously throughout the year. And now you have a whole series of farmers who have stayed out of the system. What incentives will they be able to draw? It is therefore totally unnecessary nonsense in the procedure, and it applies to all agricultural cultures. If a man has less production capacity than he who is here minimum he stays completely out of the system. The best example is, for example, the promotion of production in the cow and calf system. If you have less than 15 throats, you're out of the system. What about those who have 12? They're worth it, they want to produce it, but it's a minimum of 15. They stay completely out of the story. So it applies to olives and cherry, to peaches, to any production. I think that there should have been more flexibility and that Croatia would, in doing so, completely needlessly cut off individual export quotas that could have been greater if the whole entry policy had been different and those whose production capacities were significantly lower. It's good that on the other hand it went down to the minimally encouraged role of the little blue fish to 10,000 pounds, which is what we were looking for a few years ago as far as that goes. However, we still believe that it was necessary to go to an increase in the minimum amount encouraged for fish or shellfish and thus to increase them from 3 thousand kilograms per year to 5 thousand kilograms per year. It is simply a matter of what it means to tolerate only those breeders who are really willing to invest in production and when I talk about larger investments in mariculture respect all environmental protection regulations. This practically means a smaller number of major producers with good environmental protection instead of small producers' forests not strong enough to ensure ecological protection in mariculture. In addition, a series of 11 barrels with accompanying equipment gives 5 tons of mussels annually, and it is really unclear why the limit is still 3 tons per year. We also have an objection to an article of this law relating to insurance against fire damage. It is unacceptable for us to continue to formulate that the ministry ensures that it participates in the security of fire damage or beatings, in general, from the elemental disasters of how much funds are in the state budget. We believe that there must be a fixed amount, which is that the state participates with 20% of the funds in the insurance costs. If agriculture is our priority, if we're not able to secure anti-urban missiles, if we're not able to secure fire protection, then my people are going to nicely at least help farmers with a fixed state amount of 20% security for damages from elementary disasters. Also, here I have to comment on an article relating to fruit material. It's been happening again since last time. All we're talking about is inciting declared fruit material. However, we believe that it can go beyond that and that if there is no fruit material declared, the incentive can be achieved for certain varieties in case these producers do not already produce it or are not listed in the register of the producer of fruit material. For example, an example is the fruit of the vine variety Dobrinčić on the island of Solti, which is represented by 80% in the vineyards there and there is really no reason not to go to both the promotion and other fruit materials other than those strictly mentioned here. Similarly, I believe that this should and should be our amendment to increase incentives for the production of honey or beekeeping because Croatia has an excellent chance of increasing honey exports by even 4 times if it has been accounted for. On the other hand, it is quite clear that the increase in beekeeping production contributes to pollination and that without bees, you do not have good fruit and vegetable production, and then perhaps less will import your bumblebees. Equally, we believe that the levandus should be stimulated by the flea, and simply because of the ecologically acceptable pesticides being produced from the fleas. Finally, we believe that it is necessary in the introductory parts of this law to talk about what agricultural economies are taking into account that it encourages the gathering of farmers into agricultural cooperatives so that cooperatives can apply to the register of agricultural holdings and thus make life easier for those who have production capacities less than the minimum envisaged here. So we have a series of amendments to this law and depending on them will depend on our vote. But what we must also point out is the fact that this law had to go by regular procedure in regular procedure because this is a whole series of very sensitive issues that cannot be resolved by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12157	I thank the honourable representative, Tadic. This is what we've ended up arguing about in the clubs. On behalf of the Proposer. Dear Representative Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12158	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, assistant minister, ladies and gentlemen. So let me repeat on behalf of HSS at least part of what we already said. So, in the best sense, the words of the village and agriculture for us have always been and today are very complex social and economic tissues. which makes up the main part of the Croatian national space. And to repeat agriculture is a constant in Croatian history which has given the mark to defend and preserve throughout our history the Croatian national identity of Croatian language and k7ulture I am a Croatian living space. For the people are fatally rooted in the earth. For us, the village means a special national value that exceeds only agriculture because its foundations are home and family, and from these foundations comes a sense of honesty and morality, justice and work, faith and harmony and the beauty of life. Out of everything that the peasants and agriculture determine, we place in the centre of home and family-based agricultural underage, where technologically modern, environmentally acceptable and biologically rounded production should take place. In the broadest sense, the words of the village and agriculture have always been and today are the most important of the Croatian national space. Therefore, the central place in the economic system and the development of Croatia must have a family economy. Which for its members can achieve sufficient stable material and spiritual goods for social security and peaceful age. I ask you that no one determines the size of that property, let no one implicitly require size or production of fat be determined only by the size of such a family household for the purpose of production and determine what kind of social security and peaceful age it is. Such a way is especially suitable for those activities that naturally make an important part of Croatia's arrival. From agriculture in the broadest sense of words to livestock, fishing, fruit growing, to tourism from small businesses and crafts to a family economy that provides intellectual and other services. That is why we think that it is only possible for all of us to improve the material and spiritual condition of all of us. Not just those involved. This should be based and shaped according to the standard and framework of a fair, working and thrifty family community. Such a concept would certainly have a beneficial effect on the restoration of life in rural g early areas, and in particular this was mentioned in the islands. However, the state macroeconomic policy which must lead this balanced public macroeconomic budget is clearly moving in another direction today, and this concept HSS and the government or ministry proposal differs essentially. We're talking about farming as an economic branch that it stays within the area it was in, meaning rural space to move from it. We say that he must protect his family, his home of faith, and everything together. However, we are now experiencing decomposition in the way and inability to access all the state budget in the way this proposal said. Therefore, the HSS once again proposes that the concept differences remain, let us in the transitional period draw closer to the part where they differ and these are the famous three hectares. These are the inability to reach the number of ends in this period, conditionally we have a proposal for amendments that are easy with your goodwill, our suggestions agree. And to ease such differences in concept performances during this transitional period and give small farmers a chance to stay, that their existence will not be compromised in the way that is predicted at the end. And that justice and justice, which has always been a concept and encourages us to think about it, and that is the availability of all funds under equal conditions for all. They end up in the end and in the act. I also have to express my doubts this way because one maybe constitutional provision where we restrict entrepreneurship in a way that is largely preferred and small to limit. I think we're making a mistake here, too, where we may not be allowed. That's why we'll be monitoring your reactions, your insistence in which way p rised up the concepts. And maybe eventually make a compromise to this so-called. The time of transition or adjustment is another chance for all those to survive. I repeat, we are talking about the majority of the Croatian Peasant Corps, which is at least half owned by the country. And they won't be able to do that, and about 70% that have livestock ownership, means livestock production, which is extremely sensitive because if 3 hectares or these 5 hectares that you're proposing now for income support, then we certainly don't have enough milk production. And we must be producing a gray market under one condition. Perhaps compromise can be agreed on or your proposal may be that part of the incentive and, if difficult to combine, it is allowed to use and such households that enter another group of income support. For a transitional period, it may be useful and profitable because restricting the use of any aid means by law on State aid and entering the income group of another category of other species. I think it's uncuttling for us. So here's what we already said, we think we've tried to explain in detail our principled attitude and concept policy that we're going to implement, and continue to stand up for it. But in line with any amendments proposed by the government. We'll set ourselves up for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12159	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. On behalf of the government, Minister Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to take a closer look at the draft law amending and supplementing the law on state support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry. Once again, I must stress that this is in no way a new law, that these are amendments and additions to the existing law. That we were just respecting him and analysing the situation in the year of application that we were trying to adapt him to be more operational, to be more acceptable to the function of developing agriculture, for these reasons we also went with a specific proposal for amendments and additions. I would also like to emphasise our permanent commitment to lead agriculture in our right direction, to work on essential things in agriculture, which is rounding up agricultural economies and to give a certain accent in this direction. I would also like to stress once again that, after seeing the ministry, we have come to some of the above amounts, the amount of incentives per unit of surface or throat that we will continue to lead further support and incentives towards other forms of support, including, as I have stressed all along, in income support, investment support, that we will increase financial resources, that we will change the rules and adapt them to be in function rules, are not static. Certain experiences that come to us will be used to make them more operational and they will be the ones to encourage investment in agriculture. I also said that we are considering increasing investment support for certain targeted projects. I would like to stress that for certain projects that are of strategic importance for the development of certain agricultural productions that we need, such as the development of fruit growing, that we are going to build... a refrigerator, means a freezer with a controlled climate, that we are going to encourage an unlimited amount of 250,000 kuna, rather than a complete investment of up to 25%. That we will also work on this for certain other projects as investment support. Next thing you know, I want to point out ours once more, I'd say permanent orientation and concern for the problem of rural space. I also know the situation in the country very well. I come from places like this, I live in similar places, my family lives in these places, and I think I know this problem well. I'm aware of the problems of the depopulation of the entire area, and I'm aware that our rural environments or rural environments are getting old, that there's a great share of the older population. It is particularly a difficult situation in the war-torn areas where practically the old part of the population has returned, and unfortunately that most vital part of it I would say is also economic and economic interests did not return and it is also a great burden. In this direction, we are both a specific and what we are doing, which is that we have also formed a single administration within the structure of the ministry that would deal with this problem, means precisely for the sustainable development of rural areas, that this administration is precisely in formation, that we are trying to increase and that we will certainly increase the resources for this type of support, means for rural development. That's what I'm saying when I say that the amount of direct support will practically stay at a similar level or the same level, but we're going to develop these other forms. Through rural development, we will develop also important programmes and projects that will be directly related to improving the living conditions of the country on the one hand, but on the other hand, and directly economically benefit those dealing with agriculture. These are our specifics. We are aware of all the difficulties agriculture encounters, we are aware of the negative heritage for agriculture, we are aware of a large number of people who are dealing with agriculture in any way, but the fact is that 139 thousand are listed in the register or we say 140 thousand. So these are the right agricultural economies. There is no such thing as this ministry, nothing against agriculture as an additional interest, nor the farming of people who have a basic interest in someone else, but I also think that you will agree that our interests must be primarily for those whose agriculture is a basic interest and in this context I say that we have also led these amendments and additions in this direction, that within the available opportunities and financial opportunities we have gone to this proposal and, accordingly, here is the proposal before you, the debate is here, we are also ready and we will continue to participate in the debate, but once again I want to stress that this government has a great understanding of the problems and problems of agriculture. That certain problems, certain projects of strategic interest for the development of the Republic of Croatia, and I think that in no case is negligible, unlike unfortunately agriculture has always been somewhere on the tail. The complete government wants to and are aware that agriculture is the most sensitive part of integration, ultimately it is seen from the experience of other countries and that agriculture must also have understanding, but also I will not give up on this. We must have our development strategy, we must have our goal and a vision of the development of agriculture. We are not socially insensitive through other forms of support, we will take care of both nursing households and those who do not have sufficient potential. But why? We are also stressing that we are also aware of these structures and that our orientation is going towards the development of highly labour-intense cultures where and on smaller surfaces there can be conditions for both support and incentives. And the next time I point out, there are opportunities and our intensity for smaller producers to go through certain forms of association, to find their own organisational form through cooperative forms and other forms, and thus to realize what the state offers them according to their potentials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12161	I thank Minister Cobankovic. One notice. The Legislative Committee will hold its session at the Centre Hall at 13:30. We finished this morning's session. We'll continue at 15.00 with an individual discussion. It's the Honorable Representative Stazic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12162	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work, we move on to individual debates. The word has a respected representative of fellow Stazic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When we talk about Croatian agrarian politics, then we cannot even notice that it is marked by a paradox. Croatia is a country that could feed half of Europe and then import food. Whoever solves this paradox that this paradox abolishes will be the national hero, it will be a genius in the state and will earn a monument in the natural size of every village in this country. Resolve this paradox can't be different than start with strategic thinking. It means trying to answer the question of what we really want. What do we want? Whether we want agrarian policy to be part of social policy, or whether we want the agrarian to be a production branch. These are two concepts and there's Mr. Tomcic quite right. It's two different schools of opinion. They found their expression today perhaps most perplexed in the different view of Minister Cobankovic and Mr Tomcic about the fate of a small rural economy with a few acres of land and two cows in the barn. Minister Cobankovic says they must disappear, such are the processes, Mr Tomcic says they must not disappear because the village and the peasant are not just agricultural production they are one cultural good. We have to defend them as well as culturally well. Many things have disappeared in this world, they have disappeared as if they were never there, for example the old craftsman and the word "collar" today represents a valuable name of an esteemed representative, but that word has marked once an esteemed trade that has completely disappeared because it is unnecessary. With the entry into the European Union, a lot will disappear in Croatia when it comes to agrarians, pigs' bones will disappear, rakija roasting will disappear, cheese and cream will disappear in the market. Many of these things we will have to forget they will remain only in our memory, but it is simply such rules of the European Union to rule here in Croatia. We're talking about incentives here today. They've been growing for years, and the problem in the agrarian isn't solved, nothing's happening. It is becoming justified to ask whether this incentive policy can at all, whether it is an appropriate instrument to solve the agrarian problem. I especially think that incentives are not a problem, that it is not so important for this culture to be given this much or that much incentive, whether or not one culture is going to be encouraged at all or not when we have a far greater problem that is parallel to and which is not being solved at all, and that is the problem of the market. The market is not regulated, there is no regulated market, there is no organised purchase, guaranteed ransom for all those agricultural products produced, these markets are ruled by buyers, shoppers and are paid to buy from farmers and continue to sell more expensive. But the state hasn't found any instruments so far how to get there and help a peasant in the organisation of that market. For behold what is worth to a peasant a stimulant of 100 kunas or how many a pig he raises and there is no one to sell it to, behold, the peasants complain that they are full of pigs. Which is worth his incentive for cattle when there's no one to sell it to, can only be sold to a buyer or to a buyer. It's because they've organized an intervention buy-in right now, but these are the problems the peasant wants to solve, and if they got rid of it, he'd be more protected. Not that the market is a problem to prove some other agricultural branches, such as winemaking and winemaking, Minister Cobanković, as I hear also the winemaker and winemaker, although his crops are young, as far as I hear, they are not yet bringing in the offering, so there will be time to do so but let's ask the affirmed winemakers, let's ask..., Jakobovica, Energy whether they have problems with the placement of their products, do not have, nor do they compete with each other, manage to sell everything they produce and succeed at good prices, why? Their production is high-quality and has top oenologists, they don't bathe the mountains with a hoard, they have arranged plantations, they have arranged modernized production, that is, the path, and these examples show us what is the way to recover the agrarians. That, however, cannot be expected from a small village that is often accompanied by a nursing home. And we can't expect them to carry out agricultural production in a modern way because they have neither the means nor the will, and most often they don't have the strength to deal with such agricultural production. Talk about agriculture of course must be politically but I don't think it would be good to talk about agriculture as a party. Farmers, therefore, are the electoral body, a significant part of the electoral body, or at least an interesting part of the electoral body. But the agrarian problem goes beyond that fact, so in discussions on how to fix the state of farmers, how to fix the state of agriculture should at all costs give up any party policy. To begin with, it might be necessary to separate Ministers Cobankovic from the social policy towards the peasant, which is needed. We can't leave these people in nursing homes to ourselves, they deserve the care of the state, they can't, they don't have the strength, they're old, they can't plow or shine anymore, and they can't take care of the placement of their products. This should separate the social policy towards the peasant from the agrarian policy as an important production branch that can and should be export-oriented in the future. If we succeed, it can't be done in six months, not in a year or two, it's a long job, a big job that takes time. But only if we solve that question, perhaps by this direction, separate social policy from production policy, then we have a chance to get to the point where the basic paradox will be solved and that is that we live in a country that can feed half of Europe and which food imports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12164	Minister of Agriculture Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12165	... [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12166	Louder Peter.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12167	... The intensities of this Agricultural Support Act make those who have two cows disappear and have to disappear somewhere. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]] These measures are precisely trying to separate social policy from agrarian policy. I think that's the essence of these changes and the addition of this money support bill. In a way that I have already said that we are socially sensitive and that for that category and that we have an increase in income support to introduce another category of income support and that we want to focus in this second part on what you said about agrarian policies. I absolutely agree, one if not the most painful point of Croatian agriculture is the issue of unresolved agricultural food markets in Croatia. And of course, that's one of the priorities I said to the government. We want to introduce order, we want to eliminate, we show intent in a relatively short period of time we have passed the Law on special conditions for placing flour on the market. We are at the end of solving regulations, making stamps, intensively working on this project, the issue of meat and meat and other products will come to an end. And I agree that we need to create conditions for the manufacturer to do what they produce to be able to realize and place and to have someone who will take it, who will buy it and who will pay it, which is very important. We were forced to go to this intervention ransom measure. We were faced with current very high surplus cattle, we solved it. And I call from this pay phone, if anyone for any reason can't find a buyer for one, two, or three or more pigs, too for a hero, let him speak freely to the ministry, we've created a way of doing it. We also regulated the issue of cattle markets and today market prices are above the prices that were in the intervention buy-in, which was our goal and essence. On the other hand, the meat of the intervention ransom is stored and will be used when needed or when less offers are used in the tourist zone. We've created an assumption that we feed tourists our own food. And that's exactly what we're following. We had to do this for a simple reason, because we envisaged in the budget certain means of intervention on the market. And when we talk about support then it's not just what per unit of surface, it's not just what the throat is giving, but it's some other indirect measures. I was talking about rural development programmes, I was talking about investment support, income, I haven't mentioned market intervention support so far these are the forms that we will further develop, upgrade and these are the support they will provide, I am free to tell and safety to manufacturers that they will be able to intervene when necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12168	Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12169	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. Several times during today's debate, and Mr. Minister reiterated that this is not a new law, I can immediately ask a question, it's been quite enough time to have a whole new law. I don't understand why to complain, because every government has its own country development strategy, and even in agriculture, it's been 5.5 months since the new government is working and working. I don't understand, what are the reasons why we don't have a whole new law that will regulate and really show what the government wants on, in the agricultural segment? Besides, it would be more normal not to do a partial, one law now, and the other in two months. We had a law two months ago that we tried to settle the flour market. It would be more normal to come with a whole set of laws to resolve the issue of agriculture to the greatest extent. It is clear to me and I have no illusion that at a time when we need to become full candidates to join the European Union and start negotiating, that we are opening up opportunities to enter access funds, and here it seems to me, for the fifth year in a row, to note that the starting grounds from which we are going will be and will be of great importance, and it is important that we invest more in agriculture as much as possible. That is why, regardless of what the minister keeps saying and repeating, I want to believe that he really does think that this government and socially sensitive, but that is why it should accept amendments that have come from the opposition and that individual clubs of opposition parties and here have announced and said that it is also necessary to reduce the areas that will encourage production as well as agricultural production, quantitatively which will be encouraged, because we must be aware that our agriculture, unlike industry, is even less capable of a market match right now. It seems to me that still in the process of this law, and this is repeated year after year, so it should not be understood as just a criticism of this Minister of Agriculture. We should probably discuss or at least get the balance of all the necessary agricultural products for the Republic of Croatia first. To be made clear and loud to everyone in this country who is agricultural products and what are the quantities that this country currently needs. It's a clear thing, and that's what the minister said on several occasions, but he also said on behalf of the HSLS Club it seems to me Mr Pankretic, the market is not arranged. I would like to hear what concrete measures this will be to get rid of the agricultural product market, to have no more shoppers, buyers, and to have no soft borders that cross everything and everything. In this context, it should be quite certain to say what it seems, that the Ministry, or red tape within the ministry, is not an obstacle to being able to be more quickly, even though the units of local self-government mean municipalities and cities are hiding behind it, that the programmes of state-owned land are being approved more quickly, and that we also know how this government is going to encourage land circulation, as one of the stones of stumbling that these agricultural income households, i.e. economies, are better quality and better. I've heard a sign that there will be more favourable loans, a negation that has been done so far, and it certainly needs to be supported and said that's a good thing. However, here in these aids, although it is about amendments and additions to this law, I would be interested in why some of the goods we import intensively and we know there are shortages in the Croatian market why we do not keep trying to help the farmer in a situation where we have a better situation. For example, flowers, unfortunately we know that most of the flowers in Croatia are imported... a agricultural culture that could be very profitable but seems to me to be a significant incentive from a government that would go with giving and support for the production of flowers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Much has been said about freshwater fishing, however, it seems to me that unlike fishing at sea, where this support is far better and better quality, it seems to me that we have insufficient support for freshwater. There have been words here that some investments and everything else will go for freshwater fish, but let's not forget that the previous years were droughts that have been consumed by freshwater fisheries, we have also had high pressures on the water industry and everything else, and I'm afraid while freshwater fishermen experience having all these support to simply come to the conclusion that none of them will be able to produce especially with the fact that most of the production this year will not exist because of the drought last year they have no more to produce this year and largely perform on foreign markets. In particular, I note that the work here is done that freshwater fishing is mostly developed in areas of special state concern or in areas with difficult conditions of enforcement. I have heard and have information that the Croatian beekeeping alliance has expressed its disdain I would like to get further interpretation and statement, that the queen, or production of the queen, will no longer be encouraged. It seems to me that beekeeping as an extremely important city of agriculture still deserved and should have had better and better treatment. This is where colleagues from the HNS Club and the PGS gave the amendment and I also thought about talking about border areas, peasants living in areas near the town hall having property, having land in the areas most often in the Republic of Slovenia. I must say that I am giving full support to the HNS Club to enter into the incentive system and the areas that our farmers have on the Slovenian side which they can process with daily crossings as well as agricultural products on that side can import into the Republic of Croatia. In this sense, this support, I have given an amendment in which I would still like to and pray for something to be done that we may not have done before. In northwestern Croatia, the production and consumption of noise oil has been developed, which is one of the more quality oils that we can say that in Croatia and autocthon is a agricultural product. Unfortunately, the bones from which it is produced have mostly been imported from China so far. I would beg and have no need to say how important it is and it would be extremely correct of this government to declare that noise baskets are also used to produce oil, so they belong to olives. And then, in northwestern Croatia, white tails are also used for processing, for industrial processing, it has not been encouraged so far, I think it would be extremely useful to do so. And I'm going to talk about another problem which, I'm aware, cannot be resolved by this law, but I would ask the ministry and the minister personally to consider and that what is possible before the amendments to certain laws can be made. You told Mr. Minister that around 30% of the milk required is imported into Croatia. Here in the support system that we are talking about today is unfortunately going with the higher quantities of milk needed in production to produce what we are aware that our small family economies or peasants that don't work on an income basis simply can't do it. It should indeed be more social security to go out with them, to meet them and to allow them to receive additional support or premiums for milk. In addition, by eliminating that there are areas of special state concern, those third group that one good part of these areas is also in the Brto-Mountain areas, some are also in areas with difficult conditions of rejuvenation, but some have fallen out of all of this. And the peasants are dissatisfied and rightly because they suddenly lost their premiums. I'd like to ask you and appeal to such a set of farmers in the Varazdin spas, perhaps for the ministry of this hour about not big money, but for a farmer who lives hard is welcome. I ask and initiate you to try to change then and the class of that area with the difficulty of making it difficult and what areas are mountain-mounted areas to bring back to these peasants the rights that they had to have additionally larger milk premiums. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12170	Dear Representative Stjepan Fiolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12171	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased to be able to talk about the production of agricultural products as well as about meat production. Production that has been the most painful point of the resolution ministry for decades. The difficulties that have surfaced, the last few years when imports increase year by year from fruit, vegetables and meat. A team worse than these products were imported just when fruit and vegetables were harvested in our country. Gentlemen, such mistakes must not be repeated and the past should not be returned but turned to the future. I am therefore pleased that the Government and the RES have prepared the addition of the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry. A law that is much better for family economies and for large producers who will not be a maximum limit of 2 million kuna but will no longer need a successful company to share more companies. It will already cut costs and be more successful. It is this government that has failed to resolve and heal this sick economy and the ministry that has been suffering for years from no concern for the manufacturers. For the sake of great difficulties in this production construction and the future of Croatian producers, I would ask the Prime Minister for help to help the resolution ministry. The government and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the water economy must respect the opinions of farmers' associations, producers and human and human industries who have experience in this production. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are subject to an amendment in which I request that the incentive on the import calf remain 800 kuna instead of 400 kuna. I assure you that more than one Union meat for domestic use will be produced and imports will be reduced. And by doing so, we'll also store our products for that hero. I welcome the decision that the farmer will receive 600 kuna for the calf that will end up in the tow, as well as for producing the same meat in the June meat where the manufacturer will receive 1000 Kuna incentivise for this domestic origin. Of course, every Croatian producer would want more and more support and encouragement than the Croatian government could at this time. I hope that the Croatian government will increase its support and incentives with its opportunities next year and as soon as possible with neighbouring countries. With this move, I assure you, we would exclude all of you in this House from import lobbying, encourage, increase domestic production and increase the exports of Milan... to Italy which today is minimal to our capabilities. It is important to launch an initiative to cattleherd as well as meat producers as soon as possible to rent and buy agricultural land owned by the state as it should be based on our production. The average producer of 3 hectares should also be reorientated to professional and financial aid to produce fruit and vegetables because such family economies cannot cover their costs with their cereal production. And leave the production of grain to large economies. Such economies have land processing equipment unlike small ones that are not worth investing in new equipment. And without the equipment, there's no progress. There is no need to be afraid of the famous communist password, that a rich peasant is dangerous to the state government. In fact, only such producers are not afraid of Europe because they want and know how to work or associate with cooperatives. As I pointed out, Europe should not be afraid, because no country that has entered Europe has made a request to leave the European Union. The resolution ministry and how it should be taken into account for the sale of land to meat producers, because without land and land of badave farms in the European Union. Such products cannot be competitive and not a future for it. In a tried Hungarian farm that did not have its own embossed surfaces have failed or been sold to the country's governments. In Europe there is a rule that we must rhyme a cow hectare of land. If we create these conditions for our producers, black trade, vegetables and fruit, will disappear. There will be a huge tax evasion, an import lobby will disappear, smugglers who and how they use riots on the market. There will be no intervention buying extra pigs and heroes, we will get for the first time satisfied producers, who will be equal to Europe to sell them all the products and replace the roles. I pray once again that we all support a change in the law on state support and encourage agriculture. also for improving the livestock production of meat. I'm asking the government to accept the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12172	Thank you very much. Before further discussion, I would like to propose, in accordance with Rule 204(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the addition of the agenda with two points. Under one; Proposal for a Law amending the law on value added tax, with a final proposal for a law. P.Z. 109. The Government's proposal is sent to the procedure with a proposal to adopt an emergency procedure. And a proposal for a decision to amend the decision to determine the form of the representative card. Proposer of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of a law amending the law on value added tax? There isn't. Please, who's in favor of an emergency procedure? Thank you very much. Against? I find that an emergency procedure with 75 votes to, and 11 against has been accepted. Thank you very much. The proposal for an alternative decision on the establishment of a form of a representative of the selection, appointment and administrative work committee is the reason why it is in the case that the process of drawing up a representative and card has established that the cost of making is around 100 thousand kunas obtained new budgets and a new contractor who is half-cutting those costs. So since we have established the pattern, we need to change the decision and change it. If there are no objections to the inclusion of this decision proposal, then I believe that the addition of the agenda is done. We are continuing to discuss with the esteemed representative, Matu Štimec. It's on the board. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Vladimir Kurecic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12173	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister and Associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In the context of the debate on amendments and additions to the law on expensive support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry, in which we have so far heard a lot of data and the fact of the gravity of the situation in the area in question. In which we heard a lot of different ideas and looked at it. how to improve the situation, in which we have heard a lot of dissonant tones not to say crackdowns, related to which I would like to point out that agricultural policy, especially in this situation, should be above the party issue devoid of day-to-day political interests. In which no one should impose an exclusive right to protect the village and the farm, but all should truly and with a hearty effort to help this important segment of Croatian society and economy. Unfortunately, we have also heard that someone has not previously passed a law that he did not respect and implement and subsequently accuses someone behind him of implementing the law. Unfortunately, it is part of a political folklore, which should end up becoming responsible behavior. On behalf of the HDC I have given support to these changes which represent a step towards a stronger promotion of the production of those products which in the Republic of Croatia do not have enough. Which are largely imported and which are more strongly encouraged and which are more important for the promotion and for the achievement of quotas before the entry into the European Union. I have also given support to significantly improved and increased amounts of support to the donor, as well as the introduction of some entirely new support. In this individual debate, I would like to briefly explain what I meant when I said on behalf of the club, that given an friendly period and the need for gradual changes some solutions should be tempered. namely, on behalf of several representatives of the HDFor proposed from the amendments which should ease the transition and many family economies, especially in the northwest part of Croatia, allow even to a lesser extent of production to insist that I do not say survival. First of all, I suggested that the weight of the bodies that are being stimulated and entered into this by 100kg be increased to 130. I'm explaining that everyone who doesn't know a little bit about technology is that only at 120, 125, 130 kg of calf actually becomes fit for this one becomes a survivor and so on. He's starting to survive and so on. However, the number of bee communities that are encouraged to be reduced from 40 to 30. Namely, in the discussion of the Committee on the Village and Agriculture, it was on behalf of the representatives of the bee and honey producer that said and emphasized what is otherwise commonly known that practically every hive is important and that both small producers should and should be encouraged. Because more stress benefits from beekeeping are not only through honey and product but also through pollination far greater. Third, to reduce the minimum amount of milk from 12,000 liters to 6 thousand liters. In this way we allow many idolatry families in the northwestern part of Croatia to actually survive. I'll mention one piece of information, which I know is correct, so for the Varazdin County area there are over 4000 200 family holdings that own up to 3 cows at this point. If there were drastic cuts, therefore, a sudden increase in the number of cows that are being encouraged, it would be practically 4000 200 families overnight or something less, but in any case a large amazing number of family economies would remain practically without existence. Furthermore, the number of drowned pigs that are being stimulated also decreases from 100 to 75 to similar interpretations as in the previous amendment proposal. In addition, in the case of parent flocks, the poultry are translated into expenditure from 9 kuna. By 2001, that incentive existed. Afterwards, he was present in a much smaller form but through the Regulations of the Veterinary Service, as far as I know. Now we suggest that he return to the law and be 9 kuna. And the sixth, that the number of cows that are being stimulated does not increase drastically but also to remain on number 4. I'm talking about 2005 which means that milk producers, or cow growers in 2006 will have the incentive if they had a minimum of 4 cows in 2005. I find that proposal acceptable. I welcome this once more new and greater incentives. I understand the current very reduced opportunities of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry caused by the large part and because of the obligations that remained from the previous period, which had to be paid in a very short time. But I stress that it will take a very short period of time, if possible, for the next season, therefore, in the spring of 2005 very seriously to think and increase incentives for rape oil, sugar tail and vegetables. Namely, oil tails and sugar tails as industrial plants in an area where we really don't produce enough, with them now the incentive is such that it really can't be cost-effective. Anyone who needs to think, therefore, about increasing production to be both profitable and in order to, therefore, create an interest to sow in these cultures a larger area so as to, therefore, be in a more favourable position on the approximation of the European Union and those starting quotas. Also in sugar tail, and the same logic is in vegetables. In fact, we have in the current amendment and supplementation of the Law to encourage vegetables for industrial processing, and we have no incentive to do so with other vegetables. So when we often complain that everything in the markets is only importable, and there is no Croatian then we should know that the vegetables that should end up in the markets should also be made easier by encouraging them to retaliate the invasion, so to speak, of import vegetables. It should also consider and increase the incentives of breeding animals, at least as they were before, over the past few years it has been carried out through HSSC. However, I think that a return to the incentives of breeding throats, cows, sows, sheep, goats, etc. should be considered. Finally, I welcome and thank the ministry and the government for raising the incentive for the Zagorje turkey to 150 kuna. Since the year 98, when Zagorje turkey became autochton, it has become far earlier, but when it entered the system of state incentives and when it reached 140 per turkey, or 110 kuna per turkey. Unfortunately, two years ago, or three years ago, the incentive was reduced to 90 kuna. The current increase to 150 kuna allows this animal to continue to be protected and not only that, but also to take a step further in this respect, so that Zagorje turkey, hence, indigenous breeds of domestic poultry, could become an economically profitable product, an ecological product that could be placed on the Western European market, as was present here 70-odd, 80-odd years ago. What is particularly important is for these small, debossed Zagorje, prigorje and similar areas and surfaces and this could be not only an additional form but also some in serious production, serious and basic forms of profit. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12174	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12175	I'm correcting the quote of a respected colleague who stated, the government, the past government passed a law that I'm now learning about, and now this government is being accused of applying it. On the contrary, both the past government and the current government do not apply and do not respect the basic Agricultural Law on the basis of which the national programme was first to be adopted, and on the basis of this national programme then to build on the Law on Incentives in Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12176	No replica, pal? On behalf of the promoter of the law of HSS, the respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I didn't get a chance to thank all the clubs on behalf of the promoters and say a few sentences, so I don't know how much more current this is now, but maybe it's the most important thing here to look at this thing that has been said by the distinguished representative who's been discussing it. I must say that the invitation, that agriculture is something out of the way, is something that I have been in this Parliament a few times before, and even today, I have mentioned in some way because of the general meaning of agriculture, and I don't think it should be repeated anymore. However, after these sentences of good call, and I welcome such a call from the honourable representative to say that some statements are political folklore and to say that someone did not respect the law, I do not think it is correct because in any case it is necessary to keep an eye on the facts. The fact is, the Honorable representative speaks differently. The law was passed and the law in that section in which it was passed was respected. Very clearly, all the provisions of the Law in the part you appealed to were respected. Therefore, I did not speak here before Mr. Minister spoke of certain things to respect the law. It must be known that we, last year, the government passed a regulation that kind of adjudicated part of the law relating to encouraged quantities in milk. Therefore, the government could pass such regulations in January of this year, not wait for the law. So let's not say that there are no opportunities for certain things to be done or to wait for certain things, and I don't think it's correct to call it any political folklore, but in any case, in agriculture, it's a common over-party interest, and in any case, it's allowed everyone to have different views. And here I can say on behalf of the promoter one look that we have brought here today, which I believe must be welcome in agriculture. I think we can differ, we've heard here and some representatives from the SDP who have a different opinion. It's their right of course with such opinions we've faced before. It is impossible to reconcile both the social and the specific part when we talk about certain competitiveness, we see it in a different way, but each of us must have the right when and proposes a concrete law to stand firm at the points of that law. But in any case I'm talking about changes and additions, when and I would say the good efforts that we hear coming from the European Union, and everyone here, as far as we know, swear on the European Union, then we should listen to some things that are just coming, not to apply all those that are long ago and abandoned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12178	Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Vladimir Kurečić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12179	Thank you very much. Very short, so little in a joke. On what basis did counterpart Pankretic conclude that I was thinking of him? The incorrect claim is that the law was respected. It's exactly the following. The law has been passed. He wasn't popular, and before the election he didn't wake up. Because he was unpopular. And thirdly, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is unfortunately, when this minister sat down in his chair, in January when he came in with 800 million problems, we know what we mean. That's why he couldn't do what he might have done.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12180	Here you are, dear representative of the proposal by Bozidar Pankretić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12181	Mr. President. I am really surprised that the honourable representative represents something in front of the Croatian public, which is simply not true. I ask, Mr. Representative, when you present things that some law has not been respected, to quote precisely which law, which article and in that part very clearly before the Croatian public you present it. I'm asking you to sort of talk about some 800 million problems. I would beg here now to define this situation. If the current current minister here publicly says he will pay by the last June of the spring sowing this year, I can take over I didn't do it in 2003. But don't mention certain things that aren't true about the non-compliance of the law, because each of us has a responsibility, and then if it brings it, he has to say what the law is, which is the article, and not like this, and then he can read a lot of things out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12182	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12183	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers and Associates. The reform of agriculture will obviously be the most difficult reform Croatia will implement in its approach on the way to the European Union for several reasons. First of all, this agricultural reform has a strong social component, it is strongly socially sensitive. Secondly, we have limited time for its implementation, because we have to do it by a very familiar moment, at this point we do not know whether in 2007 or 2009, but it is certainly certain that we have a very limited time. Third, we need to do a lot, and we don't have enough resources, we don't have enough land or we haven't solved ownership relations, or we need to refurbished land, we don't have seedlings, for example, and we can't produce them within such a short time, because and counterpart Tadic said about olives, I know about the vine last year and could be planted much more, but there was a problem that they couldn't get licensed seedlings to raise new plantations. It is important that this reform be implemented as extensively as possible, that it be implemented as fully as possible and that it be implemented within as short a time as possible, because it is a great opportunity for the Republic of Croatia. It's a chance in agriculture, it's a chance in the food industry, it's a chance in the store, it's a chance in service. However, extensive work needs to be done for. It's a good thing it expands the scope of encouraged cultures, but it's not going to be enough. It is not enough just to prescribe encouraged cultures and increase incentives, because they will not in themselves result in a change of culture and plantation in our fields and for example to raise stables or farms. By that deadline, we must do what we need to do, which means that we really have such a balanced agricultural production that will allow us not to import agricultural products into Croatia, but to be one serious exporter of agricultural products in the European Union and other countries and, if possible, to be an exporter of organic and organic products, thus achieving a significant price difference. But let's not interfere with the idea that agricultural production and agriculture in Croatia is not only about themselves, it is about the food industry. and just now the food industry is the only industry that remains owned by Croatia or the citizens of Croatia, which has a strong or great chance on the international market. I don't have to remind you that Podravka is a regional, medium-European company, whose brand of vegeta, for example, is more famous than the Coca Cole brand. There is, therefore, one great possibility that, just through the food industry, we can export huge quantities of what will be produced in the fields in Croatia to a processing of agricultural products. Not long ago, there were 10,000 workers working in Podravka, but another 10,000 cooperatives, so 10 thousand families were tied to Podravka precisely in the cooperative relations of agricultural production. Today, unfortunately, there are 6 thousand people working in Podravka and there are almost no cooperatives. So, just to get back to that number of cooperatives 10 thousand families could produce and live well from what they produce for Podravka. Of course, for that to happen, a step must be taken and that there must be a change of culture in our fields, that wheat must be replaced by vegetable cultures, that wheat must be replaced by fruit plantations. Today Podravka 90% of its needs, for example, cannot be realized in Croatia. Because there just isn't a fudge of blackberries. and not only that, but it could probably be sold in jams both in Croatia and outside Croatia, when there would be these plantations. But that's why our hills stand as simple as either pastures or unprocessed areas, because they are not young or existing farmers motivated enough to change culture and plant plums. And so with carrots, and with parsley, and with trout, so with pickles in the end, with cabbage and some other cultures. So the incentives themselves, although this is a good step, will not do enough to motivate farmers who already have agricultural production to change culture, and in particular will not motivate young people to be bold to be called Croatian farmers. We have to make all of them one more step enough to just motivate them and say that in agriculture in a new way of agriculture, in new crops and cultures there is enough or a huge chance that people can live on it. Now I'm going to specifically suggest some more things that I think would be good at installing into the incentive program, and for example, we in the hive even though we're an urban environment, even though we only have 44 hectares of agricultural surfaces we do. I think that's exactly the way to think about subsidizing the lift of greenhouses, because I think we should go towards not only being produced in open fields but also in plastics and in greenhouses. Furthermore, it should be encouraged to round up properties which means buying neighbouring land because that is the problem in Podravina, in Međimurje and in Zagorje because the properties are small, depreciated and therefore should go on to motivate the possessions to surround themselves. Furthermore, land analysis should be encouraged or subsidised before the plantation is raised. We have a duty today to analyse it, but we should help farmers, these are not expensive analyses, so, to subsidize, for example in Koprivnica, we subsidize it. Furthermore, soil calcification should be subsidised before lifting, before raising permanent plantations. Yes, Minister, and that should be a measure that would encourage it to be done. Furthermore, the construction of a irrigation system should be subsidised. So here's what we do in Koprivnica. We start with 30% of the investment. I think many people would decide to build a irrigation system if, for example, the state decided to subsidize with 30% of the irrigation system. Or if you were to say at 30% how much the town of Koprivnica gives to raise plastics and greenhouses as much as the state does. What would be good, then, besides these general things, to see what is with the encouragement, for example, what is spoken of by colleague Korenika of bone production, so there are oil pumpkins here, I think it's defined as a category but I think that should say it differently, and that indeed the clumps of bone should be subsidized, that is a great, great chance for agriculture in northwestern Croatia. However, as the production of olive oil should be subsidized and the production of lush oil should therefore not only be produced of bone and should be subsidized in the production of bone but should also be subsidized, production of oil. Furthermore, I personally think you should see what's wrong with subsidizing the production of chickens, turkeys, geese, which is with subsidizing, for example, the production of an eardrums. You know Ministers that we have several thousand noves on farms in northwestern Croatia. It is something that can really be part of a farm that would create new jobs but also enable exports. And in the end, where there's nothing, it's a question of humanity. I think that the issue of flora is just as important a category that should be subsidized already a large number of citizens in northwestern Croatia deal with the production of flowers, now more like a transplant, but why not take a further step, allow them to lift plastics and greenhouses and from the transplants to reach the seeds and to use the little land we have because the problem with the land is the most efficient way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12184	Thank you. Minister Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12185	I would first of all like to thank myself for the constructive debate and not to be conditionally stated in certain forms of delusion to say that we are ready to produce these products which are in the focus of our interest, such as plastic, glass production, flowers production, and the question of rounding up agricultural land that it is also in agreement with the representatives of the contract manufacturers of these products that our position is far greater and more effective aid and support to them through the investment support programme. So the non-refundable means to be in particular, I would say in a certain part of the priorities of this particular production, and I was saying that we are planning an amendment and a regulation in which we will even go to an increase in the meaning of a percentage subfining of the investment. We believe that these are more optimal forms of support for these productions, similarly I think that we can speak for flowering the same on the basis of glass, plastic production and that this would practically be because it is relatively small surfaces that encourages direct, incentives by unit of surface and culture would not give such an effect of poop we expect to do through the kind of investment support. We have also included investment support for the purchase of agricultural land, for the purchase of private agricultural land, because we also hold that private green soil is what can be served in the process of assembling agricultural holdings. So that, too, is already included in the existing regulation as a gain, for the possibility of obtaining investment support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12186	Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12187	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, almost as the late Delic I could cry out to my people whether it is possible to say this at all, at times listening to my dear colleagues, my colleagues Pankretić does not even have when they speak about what they have proposed, brought themselves, implemented themselves, in a way that does not concern them at all at all, but fortunately we do not all suffer from total amnesia, so I, as a representative of the County House, remembers well the resistance and my own when these first minimum quantities of 3 hectares began to be introduced as proposals and when we were all naturally standing in a calm position to warn that Croatian agriculture is moving in transition with all other beginnings than perhaps agriculture in some other countries. And I wouldn't be doing this where we can see everything today, whether as a 19th-century pastoral, whether as a set of folklore or any of the elements, because the village has a positive sense of course as guardians of faith, but I would very much like to see as part of Croatian society in change so that both in the country and today changes are inevitable and I hope that this government will systematically and fully solve agriculture, starting naturally from small steps with incentives and rest, and I agree with all those who say that a number of other things are not solved. Therefore, to get incentives and to produce something is only a small step and sometimes to peasants and sometimes I come from Koprivnica-Kristevska County where most of the population is rural, where most of the population lives whether processing their crops, the area of the average household of 2.8 hectares or a hundred hectares or 200 as many as some already have as a hobby economy as a combined or as a market type farm. So in such an environment, agriculture is this driver and jobs and the development of small places and the development of the economy as a whole, and with us is the crown of all livestock farming that makes up about 40% of Croatia's income and everything else, and next to it is a series of activities. So I see this village just as entrepreneurial, and that part of the sociale will, of course, be solved by the state through the possibilities provided within the budget. I would be very pleased if we could also talk with the incentives about the system of wholesalers, the formation of packages, the construction of cooling spaces and the drying area of fruits and vegetables because talking about Podravka, which has been producing Veget for 30 years, isn't it surprising to ask why it hasn't built and dried fruit and vegetables, so when the carrots of the rural village produce, we have to take it to Austria to dry it and then to bring it back. This is what Croatia needs except of course incentives, it also needs processing capacities. And I'm sorry that our county became import-dependent for the first time in 2002, and unfortunately not for retail policies, but the processing industry is importing $120 and some million of raw materials for processing, and only 20 million and something kuna imported the trade, the trade has imported companies for selling on shelves. So other than the imports that are the problem, the problem is also the lack of agricultural land, and of course the unsettled relations in the whole chain and I hope that by introducing and certain, certain categories of guaranteed prices for the peasants will be made easier to survive because sometimes it is important for the landlord to have someone buy it and pay it in a timely manner when the pig is 100 to 120 kilos, when the calf grows above 450% and when the other mercantile products are ready for the market. It's at this hour the village and most important. So in that part he'll be able to make a living in his family, he'll be able to repay the loans he has to raise, of course, to build new farms, to buy the machines he needs, but we'll all be forced to behave more rationally in the country and the times have passed, I hope from, not just economic necessity, but from a community that is over cooperatives again, again possible that everyone at 2 and a half hectares has three size tractors, 8 of some connections, but probably 5 households will buy 1 machine that will then make their product cheaper. Now, in such an atmosphere and the efforts of the community, I would only remind myself then, there is now no going back to my former fellow minister, who I worked with at PIC Vrbovac, so we were dealing with these problems together, at the time that we in the County Assembly last year at the beginning as council ministers sent letters and requests to send those quantities of 6 thousand liters, this year it took 9,000 liters per household of the minimum amount of milk produced above which could and could be given an incentive, annulled, so it took about a year for the minister to read, understand and finally proceed. So I thank Mr. Cobankovic for continuing this good practice that every liter of milk this year as Croatia imports one liter of milk is good to encourage each liter of milk. I also do not think that it is necessary to encourage cattle for the sake of someone's better life or social life than to be encouraged for strategic, national and economic reasons, in order to preserve domestic production and domestic product but to safeguard the health of the Croatian people. That might be the most important thing in all of it. So once again, I would invite all of us to one community and perhaps not abuse the time of all of you, we could talk about agriculture from different aspects and with different parts of it very much through the amendments that I have signed with my colleagues and that I hope the minister will accept them only within the framework of the existing proposal, we want as well as the art policy possible, within the framework of the additional or resources available to redistribute to those strategic products that I think will bring better, and with the proposal of Mr. Fiolić, which I support for this year, because I believe that the cattle that has been imported because they had 800 kunas in their throat should have until the end of their production and to the exit have guaranteed equal conditions but that for the new cattle to be imported next year think in which case should be to encourage mainly domestic production. So I'd just say one thing: Dear friends, we don't share cows on HDZ and HSS. Cows are Croatian and peasants are Croatian. Thank you. [[All right, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12188	Before we move on to two correcting false allegations, I was drawn to the attention that you probably used your colleagues with a slip and indicated that our legendary sports journalist and commentator Mladen Delic was deceased. He's alive. It's probably a slip.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12189	It just means he's going to live a long, long life. Excuse me, lapus lingue.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12190	I didn't give you my word, please. Come on, let's stick with it. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12191	Thank you, Mr. President. So when an esteemed colleague in the enthusiasm of the debate said that Croatia does not have a dryer and that it should take care of the dryers because Podravka is driving to Austria to dry there and imports back, it is simply not true. Three years ago, the Ministry of Agriculture or the Government of the Republic of Croatia of the County of Brod-Posavina, the municipality of Vrpolje and Holdniga built a drought of vegetables and fruit in Vrpolje with the most modern equipment. The dryer is now in trouble because there is no raw materials and the government has been asked to intervene, but it is obviously more interesting to give the government import licences to Podravka imports dried vegetables from Egypt. And when it comes to the body of a colleague,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12192	Thank you very much, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12193	A 500-pound calf is a heifer or a bull, and a calf can't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12194	A colleague of Lalic's. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12195	Well, I'm sorry that a colleague who comes from Koprivnica and Križevci County doesn't know that Vegeta started producing in 1958, so it's been produced for 46 years, not 30 years. This would be useful to know because it is exported to 44 countries, that it is produced in 3 countries of which in two in the European Union. So it's useful for you to know that it's not 30 years, but 40, 45 years, 46. And last year it was celebrated for 45 years by opening a new soup factory worth 120 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12196	On behalf of the promoter of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, the respected representative Zlatko Tomčić. Here you go. You didn't have a replica because I watched you closely. You're the replica after the completion of the exposure either, you picked up the tile.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the good voices that come from this hall and warn that cows are neither HDZ's or HSS's, that the peasants are Croatian peasants, this points to the fact that there may be some strategic attitudes. But I can't accept the fact that some of the things we taught leaders in this hall today are not being accepted. It seems he no longer accepts not to apply his attitude. I've listened here many times in this hall while HDZ was in opposition that he often said we were wrong and we couldn't make a mistake. That was pretty good, too. So it is no secret that when we also passed the law on agriculture to encourage that it was actually at the beginning of the agricultural reform after 60 years when no one until then, nor did it rule from 45 to 90, nor did it dare to be touched by the agricultural incarceration and by the vastly accumulated indifference in the social and economic situation of peasants begin to resolve. We dared to, starting to solve it wasn't easy. Not even with you from rehearsal, so it wasn't easy to say with our coalition partners either. The HSS had a vision he could interpret what it meant in the sociological and economic sense. And today we dare say that we may have run into three acres. We may have run into six thousand gallons of milk, but we also found a legal basis through the government's regulation that, let's just say, two law enforcement laws never apply. Totally legitimate. In this same legitimate way you could have done, we do not need to shed so much tears today and shed blood in this debate about this law that we have to bring it quickly and so far, simply the Government can stop the regulation from applying those provisions of the existing law that are unfavourable. No one would get a crown from the head of an epoch. as probably not even the crown from the head will fall to today's government, today's wave which just three four months ago fiercely defended the reduction of VAT from 22% to 20% with strong warnings from parties to try that this is a bad move, that it is a harmful move for the economy, that it is harmful to those who actually benefit from the tax system the biggest, most needed. So the poorest. Today with one move of feathers here today we get on the bench of the law on amendments and additions to the VAT law will return to 22%. I accept it simply as one real fact as knowing the government that three, four months ago, she thought wrongly that she saw the tax system wrongly, that she thought she could invest in her built three billion kunas. He can't invest it is good and of course we, as far as HSS are concerned, will accept the return of VAT to 22%. I also spoke very superficially about what the European Union is doing in my previous presentation. The European Union also lags very often when it comes to border policy, one is valid until 2000, behind that agenda in 2000. There are certain concerns, there is a great conflict within the European Union itself, there is a conflict with new member states, there is a conflict over the dynamics of the right to use development funds. These are all conflicts which certainly try to enable individual countries or to continue to be subdued, i.e. to live in the wind of protectionism. and those who want to join the European Union who want to use the same funds, of course, use as soon as they try to get out of their uninvited situation. In this sense, nothing disputed is forbidden, sometimes changing its mind. But this isn't just about whether someone changes their mind or not. Here I will repeat myself in fact two concepts about a single concept that wants to turn agriculture into a pure market economic branch without any reference to the multifunctionality of the village and agriculture. That's what we can't agree on. The second concept is of course with a significantly broad role, villages and rural areas with all those functions that are socially useful, which are non-refundable, whose account cannot be calculated, therefore, that is what the whole society uses. From traditional to culture, through ecology to demographic potentials, and so on. I have to confess to the village, we have to pay the village, but we can't say that we give people charity and that it's social. It's not social, they did it. They deserve to be charged. It simply raises the question of whether we want such a village and such a farm, or whether we want that ruthless capitalist industrial farm that will wipe out all traditional values. You know, farmers often say we're conservative. We have a very difficult conversation with those for whom capital and financial resources are sacred. For us, holiness is land and family. We want to be guardians of old values. Those who view all their progress and their position exclusively through capital have difficulty talking to them, and we simply cannot find a common language with them. So that this Parliament doesn't come into that position, that we argue about whether a village is a single village that will appreciate capital, or a village that will safeguard its traditional values. And if being a producer is, of course, both a feeder and a defender, we just have to make a deal. That's why I'm warning you again for good reason, let's try, these differences aren't that big. It is simply necessary to stop this trend of industrialisation of agriculture where only 25 or 30% of peasants will succeed in this ruthless competition and the rest will fail within a few years. I don't think it's a national interest. That can't possibly be a national interest. That way we lose our identity, our authenticity, we lose something that characterizes us as a people. And that's why it's no problem to reduce three acres to one hectare, 12,000 liters of milk at this point reduce to zero as it says in the law. Delay the application of some quota as to how many peasants will be able to adapt how many will be able to skip that magical barrier of 3, 4 or 5 cows. So let's try to open the process that as many people as possible can be competitive but can also perform these uncharging social functions. The thing is, our only assessment is whether we want that kind of agriculture or whether we want only market agriculture. We must not easily ignore the negative sociological effects of this sudden entry into exclusive market production. We must not simply ignore the possibility of an explosion of the village's depopulation. We can't ignore the fact that it can get to fast within a year for two days 50 or 60% of small agricultural producers fail. We must finally realize that even on a small agricultural property can function rationally but that if a man has an idea of a circled biological production. If he knows he can live successfully on two acres of strawberries, but he needs two cows to give him stale manure and so on, I'm not talking about all these theories right now. So if we have people who are willing to function that way, I don't see why they wouldn't let them. And society must be aware of the fact that those functions it performs and which it does not sell through its products on the contrary must pay it. In the end, just one more sentence to say. This is the concept of accelerated industrialization of agriculture in terms of the rapid rounding of properties. It is in complete contrast with the latest European eco-market economy policy strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12198	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12199	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Zlatko Tomcic, in which he said the government misjudged when she proposed a VAT reduction. It is true that the government did not know what a disaster you had left for her and a false representation of the situation, i.e. 6.7% of gross social product debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12200	Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Darko Milinovic, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12201	Here's a colleague before me fixed what I wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12202	Thank you. Minister Petar Cobankovic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I don't want to go through this law nor to politicize or talk here, but today we are gathered here on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Monetary Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, and my concentration is mainly focused on the law in question. I am prepared to say this, and in my previous parts, I am ready to discuss the whole concept of Croatian agriculture, the strategy for the development of Croatian agriculture, ways to solve problems in agriculture, because in this period since this government and this ministry have held that we have done a lot of things precisely on the strategy for further development of Croatian agriculture. But let me also say that for us, the village is sacred, and we are also as a political option facing the values of the Croatian man, and in no way is our desire and intensity not to be gravediggers of Croatian villages, but, in fact, I personally hold that we are working on these measures in the interest of the development of the Croatian village. It may seem absurd to some, but the fact that we must encourage and the part in the village of agricultural economies that has a certain potential and we must also encourage it to make additional efforts and therefore keep these transitional periods, we are looking for a gradualness, we are aware that we have not fallen from the sky and I do not want to talk about where I come from or from any origin or anything, we know all the burdens of Croatian villages from the population to everything that I am not repeating, but I want to point out once again all these measures we are working in the interest of developing Croatian agriculture, and the development of Croatian agriculture itself is normally to pull back a more beautiful and brighter future and Croatian villages. We will repeat again, we do not only stick to the story, we have concrete examples of what we are in this period, and what direction we are going from the administration, from providing more resources for certain forms of support and at the end of the story and through this kind of social sensitivity where we want them to have a secure future through income support and I do not know what to say anymore, I will no longer report on these remarks, I think I have talked about them enough, and also again, I am regularly communicating with farmers from large to small, from certain interested associations, from certain groups of producers, from cattlemen, vegetables, fruit farmers, winemakers and others. We discussed this problem with them, we gave them our views, in most cases we agreed. I can agree that there is an interest of certain groups and that is normal for certain forms of increased support, but as a ministry I said, we have to take care of the defined frameworks and accordingly, and the framework for us is the framework of the budget, for us is the amount that is in the budget and we have to get all of that into that part and accordingly we have made this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12204	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation by a respected representative of Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12205	Since the Honorable Minister has said that he is ready to open the topic of agriculture before this House, I will only correct that he is obliged to submit a green report by 30.6. so it may be an opportunity when we have all the arguments to discuss this subject at that time and to oppose opinions and all these issues in order to place agriculture on the real basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12206	Thank you very much. A fellow representative, Ivan Kolar, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12207	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, associates, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Minister, all the time not to pollemise, and in fact he opposes one position, one principle of the HSS which is legitimate, which is written, which is in the procedure and which was to be declared in the vote, is once obvious and may say yes or no, and there is the end of the story. But obviously we don't understand each other conceptually, and you obviously don't have the resources for what you're saying, you don't know how to get out of it, and that's your problem. I understand that as government and objectively accept these problems, but that doesn't mean that we don't have the right to believe, that we don't think to the end to defend it, we don't, we don't want to be safe in one way or another. This is the first because this is democracy, a parliament with opinions, whether someone liked it or not. But for what you're saying, you're supposed to increase to 3 billion budgets, show good will in this House and say that you aimly think to implement these projects, because I forgive your village, your municipality millions of kunas of 20 million separate for these projects, and they mean the following: free sense of all tiles are cows, pigs or goats, sheep, etc. So I'm co-financed full deratiation I don't know what it's called, mosquitoes of this syringe, etc. I give further opportunity to buy anywhere in the country of credit, pay off when my colleague Mršić talked about it, buy out all those who did not pay pension and health in one war to take care of them socially peacefully, and that proposal came to me to support it. We'd say that's the state's burden of socialism and where we solve the surplus of agriculturals. You now by this law I assure you, in our county of 10,800 households by number and letter, 4.580 you leave without the possibility of incentives for spring seed and for autumn complete. For the fall 5-10% of our people can get it. I'm asking you who this organizer is who gets through it all together and I've been trying you all along, Vladi or I don't know who he should be talking to, but I see you as a government here that this is a move that eliminates an agricultural producer who has the right to be available to the Fund, and it's a state budget to allow him to survive further. I ask further, what are the implications of unemployment? Did someone recalculate that? Did you try to figure out how many people and if you had that data, you'd be talking to both numbers and telling us, both to me and to all of us to take care of the other group's income support now, let's just say, 50, 60 thousand people. I would accept it if it were a reality, if it were a good move, and I would cover myself with elephant ears and say I'm right. But we don't know anything. We admitted a mistake because we were saying that there were 50, 60,000 people in the income group of the first category. Three thousand four hundred and three thousand 500 entered. So it's a total failure. We haven't taught that effect, and it's easy for the state to joke now and say 700 to go for a thousand. Yeah, I'm asking you, but it's not permanent help. You know she was said to be targeted. Maybe another year this 50, 60 grand new, these 5 grand you say, there's nothing more than that. Where's that peasant? There's no money and... All together as Djakic said now, no funds have been calculated well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like to hear all the expensive calculations of how many peasants get such income support? As far as they are realised, the income support under this Act is a decidently applied. I've given you information that this spring we're left with ten thousand 800, five thousand 600 didn't get a boost. Because the law was applied, and the regulation did not extend which could be extended and that all would be encouraged. I wonder if it was intentional or was it an accident? For God's sake, since there's this government that needs to react, in two days we have to pass a new law. And I'd like to listen to you talk about the new law, and we've all admitted together that we've been going at one pace that's impossible, impossible, and in the end this knowledge that we have, I assure you that you've been talking about in both government for a few days, and while Franz Fischer leaves his post while he's being replaced by new people. And I say to you that Franz is more reluctant to lead European politics in the way of commissioners and commanding that this must be done in this way or in that way and that lesson tells us whether this is necessary or not. Because Europe no longer listens to it, because Europe is turning its back on it, because this way of politics it has led is not particularly appropriate in such a small country as the Republic of Croatia. So give us the calculations, convince us that you're right, that everyone's calmed down, either by social or by the availability of incentives, then we're right, then you're right. But while you're at it, you're saying you're gonna be this, that's what you're gonna be. You know, I know about income support a lot more than you do, and I've been pushing for the rules to be made according to the peasants, and I've been telling my minister. However, the minister had a stronger man be you, and you probably have him now who assures you that your own funds are not the right means to be able to scroll and not get for it your own income, in fact that the grant support of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is the most qualitative means, the investment of own resources in production that means the life of a peasant. But while they're commercial, then they're targeted because they're a certain bank, now they're expanding something like that, but it's really nothing. And the inability to actually inaccessible peasants there is limited, and you're saying now the peasant just came to the ministry to get the money. What money? Well, I know what he's like. A man gets kidnapped while a peasant gets some kind of paper, not just some kind of money. So give us the calculations, convince us specifically then and we accept your assurances. But you haven't talked about our law today one word, and you're saying it's wrong. So give specific items that are wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12208	Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Petar Cobanković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12209	The government was very clear about your proposal by not accepting this proposal. For the simple reason that we had a bill on amendments and additions to the law that respects the real state. I, Mr. Kolar, am giving you and everyone else the full right that you may have your opinion, but sir, you can't twist the facts. You can't say that we eliminated so many and so many thousands of peasants from the incentive system when we clearly and responsibly inherited it both by system and by law, the applicable law that we inherited. I couldn't go either, and the ministry couldn't go into law amendments and additions, first of all, because we didn't have a budget. It had to be budgeted so we could start with these activities. And anyone who thinks that one law that changes and the essence and philosophy of a single substance can be made within a period of two months, I've been standing in a position that can't be done. For these reasons, and for the need to correct certain things, we went and asked for an emergency procedure and urgent adoption so that we could pay what, dear gentlemen, your law made it impossible for users. And let me tell you what projections and budgets there will be for farmers in another group of income support. We will not pressure anyone, nor will we put pressure on anyone. We respect the fact and hold that we have done a good and social work by lifting a surface that can be entered into income support. For the simple reason that we are aware that 5 hectares of some production cannot give some agricultural economy the safety of commercial production. For these reasons, we did not want it to be an obstacle to him but we showed one significant, significantly greater social sensitivity than the current law. And again, once again, I will repeat, everyone has their right to think, to their vision and to their proposal to solve the problem, but can't impute something that isn't true to someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12210	On behalf of the promoter Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12211	Mr. President, I think it's only necessary to report with two or three sentences. Well, I mean, look, some things can't change, I can't just believe it because we're witnesses. It's just a matter of weight. If we accept the IMF, and we can change something within 24 hours, and we don't accept something that's a farmer's ambition in that part, and we're going to do it for six months, then it's a choice thing. I'll say, we passed a regulation that laid down a applicable law that was important for milk quotas. So we've come up with a series of regulations that can be passed without any problem of getting rid of something. Thus, it was not a problem and could be solved. So I think that in that part of it at all going to discuss that it couldn't have been one thing, but to take advantage of now the situation that is so set up and call for something that is like law, and not to change it is not good, and we have made a different proposal. I spoke very clearly in the introduction and would not want to repeat what our goals were, but of course the evaluations in that part. The estimates in which direction we need a ic, which was our goal, what were the messages. But one general thought we've incorporated into this law. I believe if there is a good will, not to be answered briefly we will not accept such things, our thinking that has been put into this Law in a slightly different way that respects this multifunctionality, which respects the multifunctionality which is evident should certainly be considered and I think it would be very good in the interest of Croatian agriculture and accept in the form of our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12212	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12213	I thank Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, by passing the Law on Agriculture, the Croatian Parliament has established the principles and objectives of agrarian policy. Policy as a strategic economic branch needs to be adapted to new market conditions. The adjustment required reforms that were supposed to be launched in nature in the early 1990s. The reminders for Croatia were still a food exporter in 90 years, but since then production has been falling, huge agricultural land levels remain unprocessed, the stock fund has been reduced sharply, and the the thesis that food is cheaper for Croatia than to produce it has prevailed in politics. The logical consequence of such a policy is the loss of exporting status and Croatia becomes an importer of food. Imports are increasing from year to year, up to today, according to the said Law, the objective of agricultural policy is to produce enough food for their own population and to produce for export at competitive prices. To achieve these objectives, there was a need for reform in which the Act on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry took place. The policy change aim was to promote more productivity and competitiveness through capital investment in economies, to foster income from small agricultural households that do not have another source of earnings, to promote more profitable production in market-oriented economies, to preserve certain traditional values of Croatian agriculture, and to promote greater productivity and competitiveness of the cattle and herbs path of quality genetic potential. So the incentive policy, it wanted to increase these productions, increase competitiveness but also contained a social note. The social element was cast out with fierce criticism, but in the founding state and structure of the peasant population it is now necessary. Gradually adapting this need will disappear and eventually disappear. As the policy prevailed, it was cheaper to import than to produce, it was claimed that as many peasant populations as needed to enter the social care programme. But nothing has been done. The peace of farmers in most parts are today and less than 500 kuna per month, and a large number of those who have no income other than agricultural income are inadmissible. YES, our proposal for a law on national pensions could have completely freed the social character, but unfortunately that did not happen. When we passed the Agricultural Encouragement Act in 2002, we did not get carried away or go to the perfect law that would not need to be amended and complemented. The practice will show what needs to be strengthened, and what needs to be changed, and that is why the Croatian Peasant's Club of Representatives proposed amendments and additions as early as the 3rd month with an emergency adoption proposal. With the will of the Parliament's majority, the urgency of the procedure has been removed, and now we have it in regular procedure. The existing incentive system has been complained that it is exposed to abuses and that it has not achieved its basic objective, which is to increase production, whether it has abuse. It would be completely wrong to say that there is no, but before that appearance, no eyes should be closed and control is not effective and everything under the pretext that there are not enough inspectors. With such an answer, I have not been satisfied before or today. As long as there are phenomena, the inspectors unpunishedly instruct the controlled to cover up the abuse and to commit a new one, while at the return of the incentive, a legal person is being coerced through whom the abuser has achieved the incentive and he himself through another organizer is not going to put an end to the abuse. The register of agricultural holdings does not give only the first step in... and considering the situation in agriculture, it may be in the function of control of abuse. Perhaps this is why he was thrown out with criticism and attempt to obstruct all those who are not in the interest of keeping records in agriculture but support the disorder in order to achieve personal benefits. The assumption of successful control is also the editing of land books so that they would be a picture of the real state and not a record of the state from 100 years ago. In land books, land has often been run as an oran by land that has been impenetrable for tens of years. Perhaps just because of these experiences, it is necessary to look for a way to achieve the incentive on the basis of the quantities sold rather than the surfaces that are so hot. Control would be simpler provided the customer behaves responsibly. DID the incentive system lead to an increase in production, in some cultures not to in some cultures. According to data, the cattle selection centre's incentives to women's calves have achieved very positive results. A figure of 17,000 pieces per year was reached by the introduction of incentives in Croatia. This is the selection center's data. Today we hear complaints from the breeders that they are faced with the problem of market shortages while simultaneously opening borders for imports of heifers from those countries from which they imported several years ago and experience ended in an infamous manner. The incentives have also achieved positive shifts in fruit and vineyarding, higher planted areas have been recorded, since these plantations have not yet yielded a fruit that would affect the reduction of imports. What concerns certain counties is lack of interest in this kind of incentive. The reasons are certainly in the absence of a safe market and a lack of cooling storage facilities. The security of the market is a basic prerequisite for increasing production as well as for reorientating production with traditional cultures to cultures that are deficited in Croatia. Certainly, the market is not possible without the development of the food industry in regions where primary agricultural production is taking place. Of course, this primary agricultural production should be made competitive, and this can also make a major contribution to the promotion policy. It is in this sense that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party has proposed amendments and additions to the Law. They aim to stimulate domestic livestock production and reduce market disturbances due to the uncontrollable emergence of market surpluses. Fruiting, vineyarding and olive growing are stimulated. At the time of the adoption of the Encouragement Act, family economies were expected to be surrounded more quickly. The failure of land books has significantly slowed the process of availability to agricultural land and the association of small producers in cooperative production through cooperatives is not accepted due to poor experiences with the cooperatives of the previous system, and it is therefore necessary to reduce the minimally encouraged quantities and not increase them in the next period. It is also a fact that farmers are very difficult to engage in the VAT system. It is obvious that this will take a long time, and we have also proposed amendments in that part. On the proposal to amend the Government, 15 were manifested. 4. although the proposal was launched in procedure 23. 3. In 2004, and without giving serious reasons, the proposal is proposed to be rejected. It is obvious that the Government of the Republic of Croatia was in no hurry, and if milk producers do not receive incentives for milk this year. Spring seed was long to be completed, and the government apparently felt there was no need for haste for agriculture. Now that both proposals are ahead of us, it is evident that the government has rewritten 90% of the solution from the proposal of the Croatian Peasant Party's Club of Representatives. If there had been will and hearing for the urgency of the procedure, we could have already made changes and additions, as part of the proposed solutions would have accepted themselves. However, the agriculture government is obviously not hearing enough, which suggests the risk of a return to a policy for which there has been a major decrease in production. The proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia seems attractive, but when solutions are translated into simulations, that is not the case. It speeds up the differentiation of commercial and not commercial economies, which is consistent with the ministerial statements that agriculture must be based on managers. This reminds us of the politics of 200 wealthy families, and that means that the little ones disappear, and they are the majority of them today. They were manufactured, and that's why they're stimulated. In the future, it won't be like that. There are social cases, and their production is left to the gray market. Simulations say there will be a decrease in production, life in the country will disappear, and agriculture loses its multifunctionality. Let us consider what this law means to preserve the identity of us as a people.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12214	My colleagues, please, time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12215	...national identity.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12216	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12217	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12218	You'll have more. Here's today, just a little minister. We have 11 other MPs along with these interventions and proposals, corrections, replications and others, I don't think there's a chance to continue this same debate tonight with the amendment and addition of the Law on Community Gossip with 6 Clubs with 12 representatives registered, and then we'd leave it for Wednesday for this debate on the municipal economy. Now to say right now, we should start on Wednesday with what is the urgent procedure today included in the procedure, that is to amend and supplement the VAT law with what is the legal obligation that has been established today in the Government and sent to the Parliament, it will come to us during today or tomorrow, a proposal for an annual accounting of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2003, which must be passed by 30 June and sent from the Government to the Parliament, and then this amendment and addition of the Law on the Community Economy would continue in order, and today, for the sake of knowledge and behaviour, we would not arrive again, but we would have to go deep into the night. Minister of Agriculture Petar Cobankovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12219	Thank you very much. Personally, I'd be very pleased if someone put 90% of my ideas into some law and then they'd be supportive of whoever did it, because there's practically no difference between our thinking at all. Well, here I am, in some ways, surprised by the ferocity with which some MPs are going down on this bill of ours. I would like to point out once again that we are aware of the situation and that we are solving the situation. We've solved the question, but for us, it's actually part of it. We've solved the extra cattle issue, we've completely solved the extra cattle issue. We've solved the entire spring seed. I don't have any information from the field, not by any of the organizations, that it wasn't easy, but that something wasn't glowed up somewhere because the ministry was wrong about something. And at the end of the day, we paid off. Recoral amount of money based on support. So far since New Year's Eve, for the knowledge of Mr. Representatives and the general public has been paid to a billion and cca a billion and 100 million kunas based on support. For the sake of equivalent to obtaining the size of that amount, I think it is enough to say that it is one and a half times the value of a one-and-a-half-year harvest of wheat in Croatia. And now that we simply can't find and provoke certain problems, then we want to artificially impute some of them. Well, among other things, the story is that I'm the one who advocates that agriculture be managers in Croatia. You're misquoting me, ma'am. I stand for the development of entrepreneurship in agriculture, and I make it clear and loud and I speak and I stand behind it. But I also respect the current situation and we also try to provide certain resources for those who, unfortunately, cannot go in that direction. We do not neglect them, but provide much more resources than they have provided for the provisions of the previous law. And now, again, I am very sorry about my colleague from the same constituency, that she forgot relatively quickly what was in the early 1990s in the Republic of Croatia. So I think that even if we come from these areas and we know, and the others know that someone would not feel affected, which was in the early 1990s personally again, I have to say that, unfortunately, during that period, I had to leave my house and spend until 97th year in other parts of the Republic of Croatia together with my family and forget that in the early 1990s Croatia there were hundreds of thousands of hectares of the highest quality and best agricultural land, that there were normally other priorities, but also that Croatia had to take care of us who couldn't be in our houses and we couldn't do our jobs, as well as those who unfortunately shared our and similar fates from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that the Croatian state and then passed the exam and did their part of the donkey. But I'm not going back to that. Just to remind you, the process of reintegration, peaceful reintegration and the process of rounding Croatian territory ended 15. 01. In 1998, if you forgot. Then the peace reintegration process was officially completed, and then Croatia officially circled its entire territory. In particular, in 97, I participated in the reintegration of the agricultural sector as the director of the Podrums of Lokva, and I know what I found and what had to be done. and now to say that something made Croatia an importer, I think in the early '90s, here's Mrs. Ruzo I'm sorry that you're getting some amnesia quickly, but what I can do.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12220	I thank Minister Cobankovic. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12221	Mr. Minister, unlike some I don't get amnesia and I remember very well what it was in 1991, I remember very well, unlike some. We are not angry and we are not objecting to those solutions you have prescribed from us but those 10% you have made such a turn that is unacceptable to us for these reasons for which the whole time has been explained because instead of removing the restrictions these restrictions are increasing without passing the time Mr. Minister and you started... [[You can't hear the phone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12222	Dear MPs, correcting the incorrect allegations, I beg you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12223	... In 2000 paid off the debt for the purchase of wheat storks...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12224	Dear Representative Lalic, you have abused the instrument of correcting the incorrect allegations. No, we agreed at the beginning of this Parliament that we would use this instrument as little as possible, unlike the last Parliament's calling. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here, I won't answer any of these prayers. On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12225	Mr. Vice President, so I think it's important, I might not be interested in someone, maybe we shouldn't explain all things, but I think you'll let me say a few words. First of all, I thank Mr. Minister, I see he's gone, his assistants here which included the Ministry, I won't be and use that word but I will say included in my law a large part of this law of ours. I said at first that our law entered the procedure almost three months ago and that we had a different option about all of it. I think it's good to point that out and that's not bad. Mr. Minister here pointed out one thing that I fully agree with is that so far, a record-paid support has been paid in this part of the amount of a billion and some kuna. In order for it to be worth it, I must here and esteemed representatives tell you and the Croatian public it could be worth it because we almost doubled the incentives and increased them that they are so great that such a payment should be made. I think there's something here that's the most important thing to say is what's the difference. What I was talking about at the beginning. I talked about it once thinking about how to understand agriculture, figure out the village in a different way than the way it's done here I would say and by continuing this law tries. I think Mr. Minister, and especially some of his assistants, is aware of how these things are being solved in a newer time in Europe. It is known the relationship between the part now of incentives that go and direct payments compared to the part which is now being weighed and which goes into structural support in so-called. green basket in rural development. Today we have this relationship somewhere in Europe almost 60% of these direct payments and already 40% of the payments in the rural part developed, part of what we wanted here today I would tell and explain to the Croatian public but also through our law in some way that they also mutilate. Today, if we compare it to this law, then we've heard the data that this part of direct payments almost includes 90 percent of the total of this part, and we just need to go in this direction where Europe is going, and that's what I would say is a fundamental difference, that's what we're about to be exact, but I'd say in a picturesque way and try to say what the rural area is for, which is why small family economies, which is why almost every hectare, every litre to find a relationship there, to get close to those people anyway, to keep them in that rural space. Here, I think it was important to explain here briefly these few sentences, I believe there will be more opportunities to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12226	Correction of the incorrect quote Mato Šimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12227	Mr. Vice President, I'm only going to correct this allegation that a respected colleague has said has doubled his incentives. Here I will only cite the example of freshwater fishing that counterpart Pecek asked Minister Cobankovic to return to 2002 and Mr Pankretic as minister has reduced the incentives by 3.5 million or from 4 kuna to 3.5 kuna for the first category or 6 kuna to 4.80 for the second. So, it's not doubled, it's reduced, and that's exactly what my colleague Pecek was asking the minister to return as it was before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12228	The word has an esteemed representative, Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12229	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! At the last session of the previous assembly, those who were then in the Assembly will remember and can also be checked in the phonogram I said about agriculture that no matter who won the next elections at the most recent time will have to change all agricultural laws that have been passed in the last year and a half because so on. the agricultural reform in the previous assembly of parliament began to look wonders only in the last quarter of that term. Why did I say that? Because your laws are pashadian. And now here we're talking about two laws, one is under number 105 and one is under number 65. Since the existing Law on Encouragements is so quaint and was also a source of crime, I now support the legislators under number 65 who so drastically destroy the existing law. Just one little irony that they're the same authors of that law from the same party. Gentlemen, agriculture is a fundamental economic branch everywhere in developed countries of the world. Agriculture is a political issue because if it weren't for a political issue, we wouldn't be discussing this law now because these incentives are being made not by economic laws but by political decisions, and that's how we understand it. But in Croatia and Croatia, agriculture is not only a political and economic issue, it is a national and social issue first. In the past four years, I've had arguments and facts for that, I'm not going to talk right now, I hope I get a replica. The then coalition government of the party village has done more evil, has done more evil to agricultural production, agriculture and agriculture than communists have done in the last 30 years of their rule, and we know that communists have been figuratively said to be the murderer of agriculture. You know those towers, etc., etc. I'll stand up here and it won't be popular, maybe I'll get the anger out. We know that agriculture needs to be invested. I am pushing for next year to make the incentives twice as big as they are now, to be 4 billion kuna and to give up capital other investments because the goal is for all of us, we will probably agree here, that Croatia enters Euro-Atlantic integration. Such Croatian agriculture as it is now has no chance in a market economy such as the European Union. Now let's say something about these incentives. On several occasions today, the minister spoke, some criticized him. And I agree with the minister here, even though I often disagree with ministers. So this law, these changes and additions they must be under emergency but it's just patching holes. The law needs to be completely changed, all laws in agriculture need to be changed. And even if we put out a few dozen million kunas in the budget, it won't be a shame for us to engage in complete Croatian science and professions in a new philosophy like the government in the European Union, where we aim to get into law-making and not to have law-making laws so that the same authors spit out their own law, so I'm sorry for the author. Look at it this way, we're going here now, we're going to push this and that. We talked about everything and everything. Let's take an example of the wheat. In the past four years, we have produced wheat twice as much each year as we needed at twice the prices we had on the European and world market, and then we have exported the same wheat at twice the prices and miraculously subsidized exporters. So every year the wheat of Croatian hungry taxpayers cost a billion kuna. It was one policy that today is praised here that they were doing then, etc., alamnesia is the devil. But even now, there's something wrong with these legal proposals. We, for example, combine production which I think all the worst in the overall structure of agricultural production is only 18%. But let's get some combined ones, I'm not talking about their names that have 20, 25 and 30 thousand acres of land, not their own, but concessions. We know by that law on agricultural land how they can get to them, so these laws will now, that these combinations will now get somewhere between 50 and 60 million kuna. That's inadmissible. On the other hand, we can't have a lower limit to the wheat yield of 3 tons. We must go to be at least 5 to 7 tonnes, and we must not go to the area of 250 thousand hectares like we had in 2002 and 2003, but we must go to the area of 120 to 150 thousand hectares. Why? Because if we're going to produce 5 to 7 tons then we're going to release 100,000 hectares and we in Croatia don't need 500 to 550 thousand tons of commercial, mercatal wheat and about 45 to 50 thousand seed wheat. Look, I still have something I'd like to say about olivery. We've had in the past, here's those who pay for some time over the past four years they've abolished the law and they've introduced, they've abolished the incentive per kilogram, but they've introduced one tree. And we know by weight that it has practically revitalised Croatian olive industry in the last ten years. However, there is now something in this legislative proposal that is totally inadmissible and nakaradically. That's it, let's go exactly, and I welcome it to go by weight, but not to limit it by 35 kilos per tree. What are we gonna do about it? So we're going to make those olivers that have, and I know there's a lot of them that can produce on their olive tree 50 or 60 or even 80 kg. And why was it imported, introduced this limit? I know that he was introduced. There was a crime going on. But it's not a matter of this law that's a matter of police and justice. And so let's get this out of the way because this way, if there's 35 kilos left, we're going to destimulate the real olivers. One more thing also, we must have support on the islands. I would stimulate all people living on Croatian islands because they live there. Because what do we need this beautiful land if people don't live on it?- I'm sorry. And one more thing. Speaking of this law, this Law on Incentives, and at the beginning of my speech, I said that agriculture is a political issue of this law, which is why it must be a fundamental agricultural law because by this law we will determine agricultural production. And to make this law as successful as possible, the better or better these changes and additions, because I think it's a temporary solution, that even during this year or at the latest of next year, we're going to make a whole new law because this is like I said just patching holes. So, in order to have this success, we need to have a balance of needs and what is most important we need to have regionalization and rationalisation of agricultural production. And you who have amnesia just say my God, my God, why you left me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12230	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative, Evey Lonchar. It's an honorary representative, Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12231	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen from the Government, colleagues and colleagues. There's no transmission, so I can speak freely. And I guess there won't be any replicas because it's no longer profitable. We are today having a parallel discussion on two legislative proposals by the opposition HSS party in the procedure, on a regular basis and on a second proposal from the Government on an urgent procedure. The proposal of the HSS comes from somewhere in February and according to my modest porcene, some solutions are proposed that simplify the procedure of administrative procedure and respect the situation in Croatia regarding family economies. As colleague Dragica Zgrebec pointed out on behalf of the SDP Club, in a proposal for amending the laws offered by the Croatian Government there are a number of good improvements in relation to the existing law and it is possible to fix in any way the many amendments that we have already witnessed that are addressed to the parliamentary procedure and are expected during this debate, or until the day we are voting the law. Many things have already been said, I will concentrate my debate on just two traditional Mediterranean cultures of the Adriatic coast, i.e. The end I come from. And of course I won't miss to look back on the blue field because we, apart from the green field in Croatia, have our own blue Adriatic field. And I will concentrate exclusively on the vines and olives and try to clarify it on an example of the Istrian County by giving some information. At the beginning of the last century, there were 35,000 hectares of land under vineyards in Istria. Today, the vines in Istria are grown to slightly over 5,000 hectares, the average age of all crops is about 20 years, and the economic profitability of the use of the vine is 25 years. In order to maintain, the current level of production needs to be planted annually by about 4,000 vines. And that's why every incentive certainly makes sense. When it comes to olives, counterpart Tadic said that at the beginning of the last century there were 13 million olive trees in the Adriatic region of Croatia. According to data published the day before yesterday on a Croatian Radio show at this time in the Adriatic region, we have only 3 million and 200 thousand olive trees and there were millions of olive trees in Istria in 1910, today we have about 700 thousand, with the number of trees falling to 350 thousand trees in 1991, while 278 thousand olive trees were planted. Istria is a border area for oil production, but oil is a highly high quality precisely because of what is involved in the border area. By proposing amendments to the law on incentives under discussion, the incentives for the production of olives are linked to the quantities produced and the quantities of oil delivered to the market, which is, in my opinion, a logical and good solution. However, for the planting of new olive groves it is envisaged that the incentive can be achieved if an olive tree is planted with a surface of at least half a hectare. That lower limit is not good. It's too big. The difference is, the olive is a Mediterranean culture that is grown in the Republic of Croatia in the coast and in the islands, and as it is a specific karst terrain with lots of hot and small parcels, it is common to plant it on these small plots. It is difficult in the coast to find a plot of half a hectare around the area of a football field. Since olives for planting, growing and, and breeding need 30 square meters, 30 square meters of surface if the lower limit remains half a hectare in practice means that incentives for a new olive plant could only be achieved by the household that would plant 160 olive trees because according to the norms, 333 olive trees can be planted theoretically on one hectare. This high criterion is not stimulating for the island and coastal populations and does not respect the specificities of the coastal area, and for this reason I have submitted an amendment which I propose to reduce to 0.25 hectares and that, for example, in practice the incentive can achieve any household that would plant 80, an average of 80 olive trees that I consider to be an objective size. Although I think it should stimulate every tree that's planted. And I would ask the Government to accept my amendment, which is not particularly burdensome with the state budget, and a positive impulse is given to the development of olive growing in the Adriatic region of the Republic of Croatia. And a few words when it comes to our blue field, the production of food from the sea, then, in any case, it is necessary to find an appropriate solution to promote the farming, catch and processing of fish. The current system, which is supported by sold quantities of shellfish and fish, is definitely not stimulating to raise new shellfish and aquaculture crops because the production cycle is too long, and that the problems of fish exports by entering Slovenia into the European Union do not mean that the government will do everything possible to make these new obstacles that have arisen and which significantly make it difficult for Croatia to export fish. We really need to face reality and admit mistakes in economic exploitation, but also protect the most valuable resource we have, which is the Adriatic Sea. We've never had or had fishing policies, and unfortunately we don't have it today. According to data from the fishing institute in Split during the former state, nearly half of the catches of whitefish were made in the North Adriatic area. Not because this area is rich in fish habitats, but because it is a continental shelf where the depths on average move about 50 metres and more primitive means and smaller ships were possible to catch. The open sea outside the borders of the internal seawater and the territorial sea was ours, and unfortunately it is not available today. It was not available and is still not available to our fishermen because of the insufficient size of the ship and the insufficient power of the engines that our fishermen possess. Because of our indifference at these sea spaces, they appeared and the fishing fleets of some other countries appeared. These fleets are almost predicating to some historical right today, and we're gone, and we won't be on those seas for much longer unless we make a strong turn in our country's Adriatic orientation. The Croatian Parliament in the previous meeting made a decision on the declaration of an ecological and fishing zone. What's it worth when we're not there? No fishermen, no coast guard. Yeah, I think it's time to imagine. In doing so, I read in the media the other day that the Prime Minister was talking about fish fishing quotas, fishing fleets of other countries, of course with a fishing fee in a protected eco-fishing belt. Today some other possibilities have arisen. Certainly when we're not there, and it's about catching the most economically significant species, and that's the tiny blue fish; we have to make it possible for others to fish. Yeah, that's my thinking. I am personally aware that regardless of our decision to declare an eco-fishing belt, and tomorrow perhaps an economic belt which, under the International Convention on the Law of the Sea, we have the right, unless we are present in those sea spaces with our strong fishing fleet and its coast guard, there will be a lot of effects. I see a burning red light. Supporting the amendments to the law with the view that some amendments will also be adopted if not, and this particular problem of fisheries is not enough attention, we do not have a perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12232	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. The next is the honourable representative of Ivica Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12233	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to commend in any case this step by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry because these changes and additions to the promotion of agricultural production will certainly help the Croatian peasant. Of course, it is difficult to solve the problems of the village and the rural community only with incentives, and it is certain that in the future we will also have to work on a strategy that will have a regional approach, because it is difficult for the Ministry as well as a pronoun of this Law to place them in the same basket as Western Srijem, Slavonia, Baranja and Lika and Istria and other regions that are indeed in their diversity, it is really impossible to place them in those frameworks in which they must be covered through this Law. What can certainly be done with the promotion of agricultural production, along with these incentives it is also a change in the structure of agricultural production. This is the least we've done, and we've least used the profession here, I mean Croatian agriculture, an advisory service that I don't think is the best use for education and for helping peasants in rural areas. I therefore expect that using the positive experiences of countries that can be our role model and which have solved the problems of villages and agriculture in the best possible way, of course not overnight, because the agricultural reform process cannot last for a year, so I would dare say not a few years, but I expect that it will last at least a dozen years or perhaps more to bring our village to the level of European villages. Of course, much has been said today because we have lost all day on this problem of agriculture, but I expect that we will have very nearly an opportunity to discuss the overall state of agriculture, and I expect that we will also bring a sufficiently quality national strategy in which agriculture will have a high position given its importance in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12234	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. It's time for the Honorable Representative Damir Spanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12235	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Well, here may be very short because it moved away from the debate, and since many of us have already repeated ourselves, perhaps briefly in the name of the area I represent, but one general reference to the proposed law. Well, I'm sure this debate today is about how important the bill is, so its adoption, as my colleague Loncar said, is political law. It represents all the ends, therefore the length of the debate itself, and I will at first express my satisfaction to the minister and the rest of the ministry that it will, at all, go along with this law and its proposal. This is a law that will benefit both peasants and farmers, it is a law that will certainly be the basis for young people to stay in the country, but it is also a law that is a clear model, a Croatian model for the development of agriculture that is normally seen in the perspective of what will happen even when entering the European Union. Perhaps from the field since I'm setting up an area of special state interest, so it's mostly Požega-Slavon County. I will say in my area already this year, so it is clear that farmers have realised that good laws are coming in the area of my cities of Pakrac and Lipik already this year that a number of cooperative contracts with companies varying in terms of the production of vegetables, which is certainly also the confirmation and announcement of the new agricultural policy implemented by this ministry. I don't have to list everything that's been embedded in it, but I'll be particularly happy because I'm a member of the Committee on Agriculture, the presentations of presidents and representatives of associations, various agricultural associations, but also scientists who work in institutes and hand over colleges for many years and indeed who can talk about agriculture, all expressed their positive opinion on the proposed law, there were normally smaller proposals, but generally looking at those to whom the law is intended, and these are representatives of associations and those who can analyse, and these are different scientists who were on the Committee on Agriculture, they expressed their satisfaction with the proposed law. I would especially like to emphasise what will apply to the area that I represent, so that is to encourage the development of many years of plantation, primarily to fruit growing and vineyarding. Normally, it will monitor the investment and the construction of the freezer. Encouraging development, livestock, especially the part where it refers to incentives for these bodies. In particular, the installation of Article 6a, which is the separation of commercial and non-commercial economies, is certainly one social component relating to those 5 thousand, the support of 5 thousand and what is very important for the future of Croatia, and this is a restriction from those 2 million kunas related to the total number that is the overall possibility of incentives. All can use three models of incentives and what I particularly enjoy, which is therefore a concrete beginning of the rounding up of agricultural economies, which will certainly reflect with this law, which is the introduction of order on the agricultural product market and the phasing out of which the minister spoke a lot. We need to know that agriculture and this law is not the adoption of a law prohibiting the construction of five floors in a coastal band, so as a single construction act, rather than agriculture is very much related to specific conditions, so first of all, it is about years in which it should be developed and certainly normal and on atmospheric occasions. What is especially for our area, therefore, is special, the future area of the zone of special state interest, that is production in eco areas. We know that for many years there has been no processing, there are small amounts of pesticides, fertilisers. In particular, rural tourism that is embedded here in this law that can be used and what I would like to propose here may be the Minister and the Ministry. Units of local self-government who hire and hire agronomies, so that they can monitor all of this, may need to be rewarded with some kind of priority means, whether credit, whether targeted means, so people, experts that the units will hire. In particular, two of them have been employed in Pakrac for the past two years, so that they can be both a service and a city administration and writing business plans, but also a service to farmers. International organisations are monitoring our programmes specifically this is about the so-called The prosciutto program. Pigs in our area are stocked, and parts of it are dried in Oklaj and Drnis. And now something that is a big problem, which is our end, with that I would especially like to highlight where the terme exists and where there are thermal springs perhaps with some kind of projects that experts could make, why not develop in Zagorje or at my place in Pakrac or Lipik, so based on thermal sources as energy and plastic production. Our goal is to get a farmer an entrepreneur. In Croatia, we are talking about agricultural areas, livestock farms, war areas. I can talk about the areas I represent about agricultural and mine areas. The biggest problem of Požeko-Slavon County and the war of the affected areas are mines. Unfortunately, in my Požega-Slavon County, only 22% has been demined in the past year we see CROMAC reports unlike other counties where the procedure is up to 1100, so 700%, etc. Without demining in these areas, we will not be able to really spend these incentives, nor will we be able to present these programmes to anyone. That is why I would also ask the ministry resolutely when cities appear with specific concrete programmes, priorities for CROMAC so that our programmes can be implemented. The signed agreement with Styria's agricultural chamber is extremely ongoing, but mines are indeed a major obstacle to the new thousand acres of orchards, 220 hectares of vegetable cultures and 150 hectares in the Pacrac and Lipik area, so I would like to appeal once again and pray to the rest of the ministry for the area of these war-suffering cities, and you know what cities to deal with, priority in demining so that people can work. And for the end. The aim is to create a farmer of entrepreneurs and I end up asking one question for the establishment of the next budget. So when it comes to capital investment whether it is necessary to do fully huge capital infrastructure projects when it comes to traffic or something like that, rather than put into priority what the ministry has proposed and I hope it will succeed in... for 2005 as a capital investment, which is irrigation. [[You don't understand.]] I believe that also fellow parliamentary representatives will, when they appear in the 2005 budget, give strong support to the Ministry of Agriculture when we accept the budget where we will clearly see that hundreds of millions of kunas are foreseen for the Croatian irrigation project as one of the basic preconditions for implementing all these incentives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12236	I would like to thank the esteemed Spanish representative. It's time for the esteemed constipator Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12237	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. It would join the debate on the law amending and supplementing the Law on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry and explain why I support the Government's proposal. I believe that the proposed law is aimed at increasing production, promoting the competitiveness of agricultural production and giving good grounds for negotiating with the European Union in the determination of quotas. I am particularly pleased that a thorough debate was held in the drafting of this document involving almost all those covered by the law, which were producers of associations, companies, advisory and other professional services in agriculture, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the HUP and the Academic Community, and I believe that a solid foundation for its design was created. The assessment of this law must certainly take into account the key starting points from which the amendments to the law have taken place, which are that the direction of reform is going towards an even greater separation of commercial and non-commercial economies in a significant increase in income support. That the internal redistribution of the support is going towards a greater role in the future of those sectors for which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has already prepared strategic programmes, and I mean multi-annual plantations and livestock farming. To respect the budgetary resources available and respect the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia and to move towards the gradual alignment of Croatia's support with the European Union's policy. Respecting these starting points, it is evident that amendments and additions to the Law have been created which introduces the obligation to gradually include all commercial agricultural holdings that generate incentives in the income tax system. Since 1 January 2007, all users should be in the system. The law also shows a more prominent and diverse demonstration of income support as the main form of support to a number of non-competitive economies. The amount of support income per person for the existing user group increased from 7 thousand and 200 kuna to 12,000 kuna per year, increasing the use of agricultural land to a maximum of 5 hectares. In addition to the existing group, a second group of users is introduced, representing 5 thousand kunas per non-competitional economy. It is also important to highlight the government's commitment to share, in order to develop a holding, not by the size of the assets but by the success of the work and thus to remove a limit of 2 million kunas of incentives provided for as the highest total annual amount of support that one economy can achieve. As regards the incentives themselves, I believe it is particularly important that new incentives are introduced for the development of organic plant production, which stimulates the planting of domestic fruit material, which introduces significant increases in the incentives for the rise of vineyards and orchards, which encourages seed production by strengthening the export orientation. Quality changes in livestock farming are also important, i.e. increasing incentives for the sale of domestic calves for this, as well as increasing incentives for imported junada of domestic origin. I would especially like to point out that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, led by Minister Cobankovic, has successfully done all the programming tasks so far, for example Protocol 7, so I believe that these amendments of the Law will also contribute to the development of our economy, especially agriculture and livestock, which will affect the quality and standard of our citizens. At the end of the debate, that is, I believe that this law should be adopted by emergency procedure so that prescribed rights can be implemented in time and as fully as possible in order to avoid economic disturbances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12238	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. It's time for the Honorable Representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12239	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This law proposes a series of improvements to the existing Law, as well as some new content that should stimulate production in agriculture and fisheries. Since I come from the County of Istria as well as my previous speaker, Mr. Perusko, I will say a few words about Istrian traditional agricultural activities, olive growing and vineyarding, their historic ups and downs and development opportunities. There were exactly a million trees in Istria, last century or 1900s, at the time of Austria’s Istria. Only 90 years later, this fell by more than 300%, and today in Istria, there were only 350 thousand birth trees. By the way of the County of Istria programme between 91 and 2003, 278,000 trees were planted, i.e. today there are around 600 thousand trees in Istria. In response to the current situation in olive growing in Croatia, I will quote Ahmed Tauzani, executive director of the International Olive Oil Council, who was in Split in January at the International Olivery Seminar. The press issue in "Free Dalmatia" since January of this year, which reads: "Match Croatian Olivery and those of other Mediterranean countries", Mr. Tauzanij answers. "Climate irrigation is important for Croatia because of climate conditions. It still feels that in Croatia olive growing was not a priority, and 15 to 20 years ago it was not even connected to the world. Both irrigation and modernisation of processing and greater collaboration with the world, all in Croatia is under way. The world market needs to know that Croatia produces interesting, quality olive oil." The situation in Croatia is credible and the food development centre manager, Master Mirko Losic, who claims that the state of olive industry in Croatia is unsatisfactory. This illustrates the data of how today's olive production takes place in 3 and a half million trees, which is spread all over 17,000 hectares. It's said, only about 7% of the agricultural land that could be used for it. By domestic production, argues Mr. Gugic, Croatia cannot even settle its wishes in Istria for 600 tonnes of table olives and about 4 and a half thousand olive oil per year. So you really see a very big need in the development of this branch. This law supports the introduction of an incentive per kilogram of fruit equivalent to 35 kilograms of olives per tree. I believe that this is another positive step in the development of olive industry, and another set of practical development and legal measures should be introduced, which I believe our ministry will soon take care of. Through an analysis of the existing situation and having insight into the plantations of olive trees from the last century in Istria, the ministry, in cooperation with the County of Istria and the Institute of Agriculture and Tourism in Poreč, would have to set firm programming goals and revitalisation of olive industry in the county, planting olive trees in total millions of trees. So back to the beginning of the last century and support the programme by 2009, to a total of 2 thousand and 900 hectares. Also valorise the indigenous variety in order to obtain typical oils of protected origin and ultimately, in parallel to the realization of plantation and processing programmes, it is necessary to define the national and regional strategy of olive oil marketing and olive fruit processing. I would also like to briefly describe the picture in Istrian winemaking. The current multi-annual policy and development of winemaking and winemaking in Istria has achieved very modest results compared with the possibilities and with the historical significance of this branch. In 1880, the Istrian County had 33,000, 840 hectares of vineyards completely destroyed by the philosopher. Today, in Istria, about 2,000 960 hectares of wine is registered under the Law of Wine and estimated another 2,000 hectares for domestic use. It's only 14% of the capacity that was in 1880. Istria has optimal climate conditions and about 50,000 hectares of land on which wine vines can be successfully grown. In ten years with the help of municipal and county authorities, only 500 hectares or 50 hectares per year were planted using only 1% of the land potential. This kind of agrarian policy can be considered a failure and inadequate and therefore the whole business of setting vineyards on a completely different base is necessary, i.e. that some programme might succeed should also lay it on the foundations of state policy. A serious development programme should be adopted by the Ministry of Agriculture and implemented in cooperation with local authorities. The basis of the programme's setting in Istria, presented by the Institute of Agriculture from Poreč, is the planting of new 5 thousand and 300 hectares of vineyards by 2008 which would account for an increase of 100% compared to the current capacity. Based on an analysis of the effects of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Support Act and analysis... on the basis of the situation in viticulture, I believe that the Ministry of Agriculture will recognise the essence of the problem and set up strategic legal norms and programmes for the raising of permanent plantations, I am above all thinking about setting targets at the state level which is wanted from agriculture, from the starting points of social and economic needs and from agricultural areas, who is a farmer, which is agriculture in the economic system, which is its products, potentials, market and limitations. For state-owned agricultural land, it would be desirable to allow the amendment of the law to grant concessions for multi-annual plantations for up to 30 years to 50 years without compensation and with the right to inherit concessions according to existing priorities. Instead of selling, it is necessary to prefer the lease for other agricultural production. The amendment of the law should also make it impossible to inherit permanent plantations by physical parts, namely by cleavage and reduction of products, rather than by the logic of ownership of economic operators, i.e. shares and shares. In this way, production potentials, their devastation, would be preserved, the country would remain in the role of agriculture, both the purpose and the social need. Unlike many other olive cultures and vines, much more time and work should be devoted, the proposed amendment to the law will successfully encourage the planting of permanent plantations and I believe that in creating new legislations in the field of agriculture, the Ministry will recognise and benefit experienced and proven experts in our county, and above all I think of the Institute of Agriculture and Tourism in Poreč, which would thus contribute to the full contribution to Croatian olive growing and winemaking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12240	I'd like to thank Honorable Representative Honeyn. It is up to the honourable representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12241	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, first of all, it is good that we are discussing these two legislative proposals today, first of all from the point of view, to finally open the issue of the situation in Croatian agriculture. Namely, what is the situation in Croatia agriculture is best told us about last year, which shows that we as a country where agriculture should be a core economic branch imported agricultural products about a billion and 300 million dollars, while at the same time exporting $769 million. The fact itself tells us enough what our situation is in Croatian agriculture, and we know that this is our branch where we should have a ratio of imports – exports quite differently, so it should be the other way around. Yesterday we heard at the current morning which disappointed me again that Mr. Loncar said, and the minister confirmed that the import of agricultural products in Croatia for this period compared to last year is even higher than it was last year, and what it all says. This all says that these measures, these proposed laws are just one kind of palitative measure and that visions and programs neither had ex-government nor has this government. Here's six months passed, these are just palitative measures, we're not stopping negative processes related to imports of polar products, but that imports are getting bigger, and we've come into a situation that basically what we're saying today is that there are two schools, I think a respected colleague from HSS said it's obvious that these two schools should be closed. Because no school has brought good to the Croatian peasant, the fisherman, but has put them in a position to have no perspective, no future. And that's why I'm very unhappy with today's debate because today's debate has passed only on to bickering between representatives of two laws and corrections of allegations and replicas. I think that whoever listened from Croatian citizens, or watched on HTV, I don't think I can be satisfied, nor can we be satisfied when we see what our situation is like in Croatia agriculture, and what we are proposing are palitative measures and obviously we need to go out constructively to talk about that part, and in the future I recommend that we discuss such discussions, bickering to leave the MPs here and allow us to constructively discuss and that you go to a small town hall and organize a round table and then bring out all these rough proposals and parts of the debate. Why do we have such a situation, the problem we HSPs have been talking about for a long time now, we do not have the balance of agricultural and other products in the country, to know how much in Croatia it takes, in which quantities, and then this must be followed by incentives and other things, and that is what we are saying we do not have state banks, in this area to deal with part of the agrarian because it is the only way to help the Croatian peasant and help the country to make agriculture and fisheries a foundation for us economically with tourism and small and medium entrepreneurship. But unfortunately, to this day, it's not done. We know ourselves what our situation is related to exports, and what we could do we don't have diplomatic services that would work for the purpose of the Croatian economy, which should be one of the basic tasks, means our diplomacy outside to promote because we actually have huge opportunities already, I said, that according to the potentials that Croatia has, we can produce food for 20 million inhabitants and not to import this much on the one hand, on the other hand, we have God has given us the opportunity to produce healthy, domestic, indigenous food and that price and food on the European market and elsewhere is getting higher. This is why it is high time for the government to commit itself, that a whole programme is being implemented because what it is now generally does not solve the situation, solves a small part, but I say incentives are only part of all of it, and there is also a need to carry out education in order to produce the right agricultural production and we know what these consultations are at the level of the county and elsewhere, so we need to provide the right schools. I must again say that I am both dissatisfied and today's minister tells us about the area, especially in the second constituency where there is production of freshwater fish, we know what the situation is, what happened today tells us that this is the problem of being a high water industry fee. Well, I'm not a representative of the government, but he's a representative of the government, so he should have taken it as a minister to compensate you for the reduction and thus to remove such an obstacle. Also around the olivery of fellow Tonchi he spoke more would say our distinguished representative Mrs. Rose. The part about 35 kilos on the tree, I don't know what happened to you when you put such a solution into the law, that means whoever produces more, that they'll have to cut the branches. Is that what you wanted to do? So we're developing olive growing, and then a man is going to have to cut branches to get into that part. So there's obviously a lot of things that you haven't thought enough about. But I think there's going to be some space slowly, and we're going to move slowly into the area of forestry, and we're going to finally discuss the situation in the Croatian forests once and for all. and elsewhere where the situation is, it's a huge monopoly and where there's also a lot of crime and various other activities. Especially me, I've seen colleagues from the HDZ give amendments, if our Croatian man reads these amendments, I'll take one piece of it visible he won't even know what it's about. Here is a group of HDZ MPs proposing to add a new part to the incentive of words, breeding breeding poultry (parent flock – poultry) translated into breeding. So let's say it's Croatian. It's chickens and singers. Not to discuss some big things. Let's just say this usually when you read it now, who's going to understand. Right? So all this tells us, let's do what we can, we have opportunities, and let's not lose the debate on this part of the proposing. I say, we have opportunities, because we come into a dangerous situation, and we know ourselves that we only produce from agricultural products wheat, corn and another product, where we meet our needs. Well, it's a shame we have to import plums today. About the bumblebees not to tell other things. 13.5 kuna, but apparently, I have no guarantee that Minister Cobankovic is still not importing the beetles, so our tomatoes are being questioned by Dutch beetles. So give an incentive for the Croatian bumblebee then. Therefore, there are many of these topics, but it is visible, I unfortunately have to speak this way, but it is, look, I told the election campaign, the Croatian state has provided Croatia's peasant with everything, so we, we import and water, we know that, we import and bumblebees, we import 15.5 kunas a kilo. Bones, go to the store and you'll see that the bones are all foreign to production, there's no homework. And how many pumpkins are in the area? How much is it? The toothpicks, all the other stuff. Everything the Croatian state has made possible for the Croatian peasant, he just needs money to get it from straw, shadow and everything else. So these are things that we have to worry about and get rid of these things in a way that we know for ourselves that we have allowed large chains to enter, so at least if we had conditioned that 65% of the products could be Croatian, we would have done a lot. So I ask the government to finally understand what the position is, and we have the programs concrete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12242	I thank the esteemed representative Kovacevic. You've also earned a round of applause about Croatian beetles and... Next in line is Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. and last reported, respected representative of Ruza Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12243	Mr. Vice President, I have to disappoint my colleague, because when I saw how many people were reported and how they said things, I reduced my speech very much. So I'm not going to talk about everything I needed to talk about. But as the woman and mother who chose life on the island, and who actively deals with olive growing, I welcome the fundamental idea and purpose of legal changes and additions to state support in agriculture and fisheries and forestry. I will only concentrate on olive growing, because it is the most important branch of agriculture especially on the island of Korcula. And to some, the only source of means to live. So I look forward to the great attention that is given to olives and olives, especially if it is known that at the beginning of the last century there were about 15 million olive trees, there are now some 3.5 million trees, but only about 2.5 million active ones. If we know that there is a litre of virgin olive oil in Croatia between 70 and 80 kuna, it is clear to us that many people in Croatia cannot afford it, but they are buying imported oil that is much lower in quality. And if the state's incentive to an oliver and a processor was greater, it would affect the price of oil. Also, if it reached a number of 15 million trees as of the last century, it would also have an impact on the price of olives and olive oil. So I suggest that the government launch one project, which is that in all the burned areas, especially on the island of Korčula, where about a thousand acres of pine forest burned, along with its engagement and petitions, helps plant olive trees in these burned areas. Not only is this better and more lucrative than pine, but it also keeps it from new fires, because in well-ordered olives it is difficult to fire. In addition, it is not said for no reason that an olive is like a mother, you can forget, leave for years, but if you return to it and give her a little pain, love and attention she will repay you with beauty, fruit and oil. We must re-create from the olive tree, but not as a symbol, but as with all the concrete drivers of the economy on the islands from which many can live, and then pay as much attention to the cultivation of lavender, medicinal plants, mandarins, oranges and generally all the other fruit and plantations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12244	I would like to thank the esteemed representative Tomasic. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12245	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, today we had an exhaustive debate on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry, and I thank everyone who participated in the debate. I believe that everyone went with good intentions and good wishes, and in the end I will say in some way that I am also glad that this law has caused this much attention, that this law has also caused this much debate, which confirms that this is indeed a fundamental law in agriculture and that it is of paramount importance for the development of agriculture. I in this closing word wouldn't be coming back to everything I said. I say, once again, I'd like to thank everyone for their constructive approach. The amendments that are attached to us, we will take very seriously and studioly consideration and when it is stated we will express our views and thoughts, which we are able to adopt and what we consider to be in the interest of improving the existing law we will try to adopt. I don't have any ambition at all to think that this is an ideal suggestion, that it's God's day, but here I'd just like you to reflect that in a relatively short period of time we've been trying to bring exactly and because of the ones we're bringing it for, and that's what I'm talking about first, I'm thinking about those who should be paid for milk. And I say once again thank you all for your attention, thank you all for the constructive proposals, and we will look closely at the amendments that are attached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12246	I thank Minister Cobankovic. On behalf of the promoter of the HSS Club, the esteemed representative Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12247	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen! Well, let me thank everyone on behalf of the promoter for the debate by respecting each and every one of our own orders and by not complaining or by not thinking that we are the only ones who are right. I ask that you consider us as proposings, myself personally as one of the proposings that I have the right to be on my own opinion and as a club that we have publicly brought it out without the pretense that it is absolutely right or that it is the only thing that is possible. I ask to be understood if there is a good will that the concept if we differ essentially we are very close and to remind that the remaining two key moments in the debate are actually undefined and they were actually not even discussed and that is every hectare to be encouraged, that it has the right to a minimum of one hectare and a minimum incentive amount of one cow without a limit of how many liters of milk, it has already been said. Thus, variations on the subject of one or other concepts can vary suddenly, but conceptually it is a difference even if a little better debate is discussed and if he has a good will and that gap can easily be overcome. In fact, I think the fundamental difference if the government remained firmly on the stand three plus everything else that was said then it really comes to a large division, the big one gets bigger and the little one is even bigger. The destruction of the peasants of that lowest layer is inevitable. That's why I'm asking, here's the final sentence so I don't bother you all together. Let's not give up such an easy little peasant because his destiny is now in this House and the question is when he'll be able to discuss it more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12248	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative, Kolar. Representatives and MPs, several notices. This is what we're finishing work with today. The continuation of the working session is on Wednesday 2.6 at 9pm and 30 minutes with the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on VAT and the Annual Account of the State Budget for 2003 and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Communist Economy. So that's Wednesday, 2.6 at 9.30 p.m. Tomorrow's the gala session with the beginning at 10 o'clock. I'd like your colleagues and colleagues to come to the assembly shortly before 10. This concludes today's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12249	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 105. The debate on the text of the law is over. In accordance with Article 154. I am giving the Rules of Procedure the next conclusion. In order to reverse the provision of Article 49(1) of this Act, there are particularly reasonable reasons. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Restraint? I find that with 82 votes in favour, 2 against and 14 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been reached. I'm going to vote on the amendments table, the special table is divided into MPs. We have amendments to the government that were delivered after the deadline. First, we need to vote in accordance with Article 166(1) whether we are going to discuss the amendments submitted by the Government after the deadline. Who's in favour of this motion to vote? Please, colleagues. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 80 votes in favour, 8 against and 9 abstentions, it has been decided to discuss the amendments that the government has tabled after the deadline. I ask Minister Cobankovic to be seen as explaining the amendments, first Amendment 1 to the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12250	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Amendment 1 is set out in Article 8 paragraph 2 of the "2004" is replaced by the number "2005". The reason for the change is the correction of the printing error.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12251	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I'm voting this amendment to the government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint. I find that an amendment with 82 votes and 13 abstentions has been accepted. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2 to the Government. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12252	Thank you very much. Article 49 is amended as follows: "This Law shall enter into force on the 8th day following the day of its publication in the National Journal" by means of provisions of Article 8. This Law shall apply from 1 January 2004. The provisions of Article 40 of this Act shall apply until 31 December 2004. New incentives and increased amounts of incentives introduced by this Act in Appendix 2 and Appendix 4 of Article 46 of this Act, with the exception of incentives for the processing of fruit of olives in 2004 as referred to in Article 24 of this Act, shall encourage and sell domestic calves for the purposes of Article 30 and 31 of this Act of additional incentives for breeding throats, breeding animals and increased amounts of incentives for vineyards, annual payments and fruit species I and II. the annual payments referred to in Appendix 2 to this Act shall apply from 1 January 2005. The provisions of Articles 36, 37 and 38 of this Act shall apply from 1 January 2005 with the exception of the amount of support for the income of the user group I. Explanation. As a result of the nomotechnical error, some of the articles covered by the transitional provisions have been amended and it has been found that, as a substitute for support from the programme for the development of livestock production, only annual payments for breeding throats have to be applied since the entry into force of this Act. It is also more precisely determined that in the case of incentives for calves, this is about selling exclusively domestic tov calves.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12253	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 2 to the Government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that the government's amendment was accepted by 92 votes and 3 abstentions. We are now going to the Ministers and Madam Gentlemen's MPs for the amendments tabled by MPs and club representatives. Mr. Minister, go ahead. The first club of representatives of the HSS. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12254	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's unacceptable. The application for income support as well as other support shall be regulated by the Regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12255	Representative of the Honorable Kolar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12256	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, we have deliberately submitted this amendment for the purpose of ending this powerful administration that happens every spring, the pilgrimage of our farmers or the office of the economy or already in the municipalities because, in addition to the requirement of the support model, we have written a decoded one, so everything is said, because this first degree or first type of income support model is a target group, it is precisely necessary to meet the conditions, the age of men, men and women, the most said is who can achieve it and the only death or the degree of retirement it ceases to be. But now we're repeating this request and the regulation has to make every spring come between actually between New Year's, but as prescribed and I think it's 15. Report 12 until the end of the 1st month. If he's alive he's been reported and what to report him for the second time because he's actually all those assumptions he's been told. The only new guy, he's got to sign up for God's sake, check in. And we thought we'd just help out in the field not to create the cannons and those pressures that keep going on and on and on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12257	Voting?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12259	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Other club representatives of HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12260	It's unacceptable. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law defines that state aid beneficiaries of the agricultural holding are defined by the Agriculture Act and that includes agricultural cooperatives. This means that it would be too much of a fact to further point out.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12261	Let's withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12262	Thank you. Amendment 2 withdrawn. Amendment 3 to the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12263	It's unacceptable. The increase in maximum use of agricultural land to five hectares wanted to increase the number of users of income support. It has been changed, the change is consistent with the expansion of the scope of agricultural land. Only arable land was previously covered and now this provision relates to total agricultural land.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12264	A colleague of Kolar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12265	Well, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I think here on this amendment is actually the whole point of agricultural reform and see. If we remember the discussion of the plenary session then we realized that it was 2.8, 2.9 or 3 hectares of average household size and now we do not insist on this 2 or 3 anyway but we thought that in the debate we also said let it not rise that limit because it is simply too broadly defined and eliminates commercial production of a large part of the farmer and we create a new force, a zone that can hardly be controlled by anyone. Because it only needs to be said on the basis of agriculture means having a country, applying for pension insurance and achieving the basis of agricultural production, meaning land ownership of a particular area of pension, farming and income. What income? We said it was less than the actual income achieved through support and it's too much of a hectare. We actually built the whole concept not to raise, not to create new farmers under the law. This is now directly creating a gray market.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12266	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4th Representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12267	She's not taking it. The same explanation as for the previous amendment with the fact that I would like to stress once again that the entry into the system of support for income voluntary and assessment of each agricultural producer, and this change, by raising to 5 hectares, we only wanted to enable a larger number because it is a fact that certain households cannot be commercially organised with 5 hectares.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12268	Since we don't have respected MPs, we have to vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 5. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12269	She's not taking it. I'll tell you what. The cooperative may submit a request for entry in the register and a request for incentives for that land for which it has the right to own. Land owned, leased, concessions and obtained for use without compensation. Therefore, all cooperatives can, on a voluntary basis, grant all their land to the cooperative but thus lose the right as individual holdings. The law doesn't allow a double system.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12270	Here you go, pal Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12271	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. The aim of our amendment is to make cooperatives who are members of the cooperative joint application for incentives if they happen to be in, within the cooperative each for themselves under the minimum prescribed by your law. The same thing we had on the previous amendment will happen. That we'd leave a large part of the farmer out of the system. That's exactly why they're joining together, so that the cooperative can be above the minimum that you're prescribing by this law. Why lose production capacity? So we're looking for Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament to vote on our amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12272	The vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 6. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12273	She's not taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12274	Who's up for that amendment? No one. Seven. ... What? ... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, I know, but it did, it did raise your hand, but I don't mind, but you raised your hand after I saw that there was no one here. ... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] We will repeat the vote on this amendment by House of Representatives Club number 6. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Seven. HNS's PGS representative's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12275	She's not taking it. The amendments to the law explain that the total volume of business does not apply as a criterion for the achievement of the incentive for commercial economies. In addition, the provisions of this and other laws can only apply to the territory of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12276	Here you go, Comrade Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12277	All you've said, Mr. Minister, is true, but it is an amendment that tries to make it possible for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, farmers who have agricultural land along the border and regulated by Croatia and Slovenia's interstate treaty, and who return the fruit to Croatia, and in this market it is realized that it is recognised to them in the possession of the country in order to exercise the right to encourage where it is a condition for achieving incentives. That is why such citizens of the Republic of Croatia from Međimurje to Istria, you know there is a terrible lot. I'm asking for a vote. And the explanation you gave does not refer to the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12278	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 8. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12279	She's not taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12280	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Nine. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12281	Sustained. ... We'll put a lavender on it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12282	It becomes an integral part of the law. Number 10. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12283	She's not taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12284	Minister, if you say so, we don't hear from you very well. My colleagues and colleagues, please. Understand we're working.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12285	She's not taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12286	There you go. Who's up for that amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 11th Representative of Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12287	In part, the second part of the amendment is accepted to include white tails in vegetable incentives for industrial processing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12288	As regards the first part of the amendment, Mr Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12289	I am pleased that part two of the amendment has been accepted, but I would like to ask for some reason why the first part is not accepted. The amendment behind will probably be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12290	The next amendment gives a better statement and fully solves this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12291	Thank you very much. I'm pulling the first part.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12292	The first part is withdrawn. Part two of the accepted amendment. It becomes an integral part of the Law. The 12th representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12293	This amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12294	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. ... What's the difference between a pumpkin of olives and an oil pumpkin? [[Applause]] 13th Representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12295	It is accepted to partially form pods, pepperoni and florists.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12296	And beans and beans and garlic, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12297	No, I don't. There's a reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12298	So they're going, they're going, they're going, they're going,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12299	It's accepted in part. I'll repeat the pods again, fair and flowering. It's about cultures that serve industrial processing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12300	And beans, beans and garlic? He's a colleague of Mršić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12301	I think that my amendment was more fully suited to what the food industry needed, but here's a better pod, a pepperoni and a florist in the hand than beans, beans and garlic on the branch.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12302	That means you're pulling this part back, right? Thank you very much. This second part was adopted with pods, pepperoni and florists. 14. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12303	It's not the law, the amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12304	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12305	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12306	Who's up for that amendment? Does the amendment promoter, the HSS Club? No, I don't. Who's up for that amendment? He's not accepted. There isn't. He's not accepted. 15. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12307	She's not taking it. The specific Regulation which is in force shall establish a percentage but also apply to this item to all provisions as well as to other aid items where the maximum incentive of quantities is determined. So or the maximum amount encouraged, we can't establish it, because it determines the maximum amount encouraged and that will result in a certain percentage. Unfortunately, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12308	Only the one who filed the amendment can. That's right. My colleague, Tadic, please. I've looked elsewhere at this previous amendment of this cow, in the calf cow system.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12309	Sir, that's our turn. Don't worry. So here's the thing, essentially, so it's about insurance from an elite accident, we're looking for the state to be involved with insurance companies, with 20% of the cost, payment of insurance. If we don't already have a fight insurance system. Every year a coma doesn't have an anti-urban missile, we have a problem with a fight. If we can't organise fire protection properly, if we have a problem with fire-fighting olives and vineyards every once in a while, then please let's go in the budget nicely if we're not already able to secure protection, then we'll at least go in the budget to secure the security. So let people have the help of the state to pay for insurance. Here's what we want, not to vary it from year to year, how much money there is in the budget. So that's why HSPe wants 20% of the cost of paying insurance to be part of the state. We're looking for a vote, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12310	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 16th Representative, dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12311	It's unacceptable. The minimum yield per hectare is a higher condition for achieving incentives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12312	It does not mean that there is no amendment to the motion that there is no need to explain the reason for removing the refusal of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12313	So the minimum yield per hectare is a higher condition for achieving the incentives for cereal, brewing barley, olives, soybeans and sugar beet. The regulation relating to the standard quality of the product is in the manufacturing process, and at this point cannot be bound by the conditions for the achievement of the incentive.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12314	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get enough of the majority. 17 club representatives of HSpa.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12315	Unacceptable, unfortunately. Amendments to the law suggested that the minister prescribe exceptions to the obligation to use the fruit material of the declaration. So that's what we're supposed to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12316	We're pulling okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12317	Thank you. 17 amendments withdrawn. 18 HSS clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12318	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12319	Who's in? He didn't get most of what he needed. 19 HSP forensics clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12320	Unacceptable. I must say, unfortunately, during the debate, this provision in the bill has been misread. In fact, if there were an average of more than 35km of olives per tree on an economy, this does not mean that the economy would be exceptional from paying off incentives. Olive is a culture known for its alternative birth, at all levels. Which means from year to year, but also within it's manufacturing year, if you're inside the microlocations. which means inside one economy. It has been verified by the profession and the olivers that the stated maximum is at the level of the economy and not the level of the individual tree, so it will take an average according to the lordship, enough to cover the largest part of the product and only serve as a good indicator in the best management of the budget. We've further checked this with the olivers and they're in agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12321	A colleague of Tadic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12322	Mr. Minister, from all you've said, there's only one fact that every restriction is unnecessary and that's what we stand for. So someone can take a year off by playing a game on an olive tree and give them a 50kg boost for that 15kg higher. The man was trying to water, he was wasting water, so please remove the limit from the law. Our goal is to make as much olive production as possible and not as much lime as possible, unless you have a deal from Protocol 7 with Italians to export olives. Also here the incentive must be given for processed olive trees. Not for any olive tree. There are olives that owners last saw in 50 of those years. So please, nice clothes must be processed stem olives inside, so we encourage the restoration of olive groves. We equally ask that restrictions be lifted, olives be produced. Not 35 kilos per tree. This all you've said does not remove our main suspicion. YES, you limit the amount of olive production. I'm asking you to explain it first.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12323	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 20 of the same club HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12324	We accept he's getting attached to the previous what's been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12325	20 accepted. The 21st club of representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12326	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12327	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 22 of the same HSS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12328	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12329	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 23 representatives of Anton Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12330	It's unacceptable. The purpose of the production incentive model is to stimulate production is to stimulate production in commercial economies. And their circumnavigation. Raising a plantation, of 0.25 hectares, is not financially cost-effective or commercial production. For small non-commercial economies, support is provided within the income support model.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12331	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 24 representatives of Vladimir Kurečić, Ivan Jarnjak, Ivana Sučec Trakostanec, Karmela Caparin, Vladimir Pleška, Velimir Plesa and Katarina Fuček.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12332	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12333	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 25 MPs, "Dear Zgrebec."
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12334	Unfortunately, it's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12335	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 26 also representatives of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12336	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12337	Thank you. Who's up for that amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 27 club representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12338	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12339	Who's up for that amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 28 MPs, "Dear Zgrebec."
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12340	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12341	Who's in favour of that amendment. He didn't get the required majority of 29 representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12342	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12343	Who's up for that amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 30 club representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12344	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12345	Who's in? He didn't get the required majority. 31 of the same HSS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12346	Unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12347	Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you. 32 Club of Representative Libra.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12348	Unfortunately, it is not accepted because the proposal crosses the budgetary framework provided for by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12349	There's no one from Libra. Who's up for this, man? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 33 representatives of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12350	We cannot accept this amendment. It is not accepted because it crosses the budgetary framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12351	He's a colleague of Mršić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12352	But you said that most of it was about the 2005 budget anyway. I will accept that this amendment of mine applies to 2005 but you will face me that there can be no incentive for vegetables per hectare less than the wheat incentive. It takes a lot more investment, it takes a lot more work, it needs a lot more stuff to do, and that's why I think we need to increase the incentive just like we need to increase the incentive to other industrial plants where it's the same thing under what we give for wheat. If we want our culture to change in the fields, then we have to start and encourage it in a more just way. Here, it may look a lot like five thousand kunas per hectare, but rare are producers that have vegetables on the hectare, so here I would beg the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12353	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 34 representatives of Mate Brletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12354	It can be accepted with no more than 2.500,00 kuna per hectare, i.e. as for vineyards.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12355	A fellow Brletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12356	Satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12357	Thank you. So the modified amendment. 34 representatives of Mate Brletić accepted. 35 HSP representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12358	It's unacceptable. The proposal crosses the budgetary framework provided for by law, but I would point out that this production is generally encouraged through capital investments, which this ministry will maximumly implement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12359	A colleague of Tonchi Tadic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12360	Dear Mr. Minister, we're looking here for an increase in olive plantation and simply because we need to be deeply aware of the fact that we can only raise olive plantations for a few more years if you claim that we are entering the Union in 2007. If we want 13 million olive trees, now we have four, we have to plant three million olive trees a year. So that should be encouraged, people should be encouraged to plant olives. We also want extra virgin olive oil to be produced, not just any olive oil. And as far as bees are concerned, it's clear that, with little incentives, we can triple the exports of honey out there, but equally without bees, you don't have successful fruit growing or successful vegetables, and then maybe we'll do less importing bumblebees of 14 kunas per piece of bumblebees. So please, here are all the logical and necessary things. It's the same catch as the little blue fish. We want to increase the incentive to catch a small blue fish of 35 limes per kilogram to 50 limes per kilogram. Of course, I could still start here to discuss how much your ministry and fishing exactly has been working with the Ministry in the first place, the problems of the fishermen' refrigerators, to solve the problems of the operational coasts for fishing vessels. Of the 63,000 kilometers we only have 2 out of 6,300 kilometers we only have 2.7 kilometers of operational shore for fishing boats. So our amendment is really a minimum, and that's why I'm asking for Mr. President's vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12361	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 36 representatives of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12362	He's not being accepted. It has already been consummated with Amendment 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12363	He's a colleague of Mršić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12364	It wasn't consummated there with Amendment 13, because...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12365	No, Amendment 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12366	Yeah, yeah. But that's where it's all about planting pumpkins, that's where it encourages the processing of hives. So this is where the basket manufacturer gets, or whoever's processing those bony bones into this. I don't think this is gonna be a significant blow to...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12367	Excuse my colleague, Amendment 12... it was the gourds of olives and it was replaced by the word "white oil pumpkin" the 13 of which refers to pods, pepperonis and florists. This refers to the reprocessing of the lumpbones. Where is the Minister's consummation? It's not consummated, because Amendment 13 is on pods and pepperonis and florists. 12 is an oil pumpkin, and it's not the reprocessing of the bony bones. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12368	So here in Amendment 12, it's about encouraging the production of pumpkins, and this is about encouraging the processing of hives. As with olives, we have three or four kinds of incentives there. We've got plantation, we've got olives, we've got processing and we've got oil. I don't see any reason why it wouldn't be in the pits, and here we have a very minimal amount of 2 kuna per kilo, I don't think there's gonna be any impact on the budget. I'm asking for a vote. It's the oil we're exporting.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12369	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 37 also serves as a representative of Zvonimir Mrsic. My colleagues and colleagues, try to sit there and hold a debate and vote on amendments with unrest and marble. 37 representatives of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12370	It is not accepted, but I would like to stress that these programmes will be encouraged through capital, investment support and, in any case, that our production of flowers is one of the priorities, but it is specific productions where there is far greater interest and those who produce flowers and, as a general rule, it is plastic and glass production, meaning small surfaces and groupings of florists that they are far more interested in getting investment support to raise plastics and greenhouses.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12371	He's a colleague of Mršić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12372	Well, it's commendable to think about encouraging or co-finance the construction of plastics and greenhouses, hopefully also irrigation. I hope so, but it's a one-time investment. However, the production of flowers in these plastics and greenhouses is every year. You already have in Ludbreg 150 families who are associated with a flower society of which the vast majority will even decide to deal with it as a fundamental interest and I think that we should also make a way to stimulate the production of flowers, so seeds, transplants and cut flowers in a way that not only buy them or help them build a greenhouse or plastic but also encourage them to do what they do for 10 or 12 years, how long is the duration of this plastic and greenhouse? This will motivate families first of all young people to start dealing with this kind of agriculture and right in the continental part of Croatia where the parcels are small, where they are not large areas that can plant extensive cultures. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12373	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 38 MP Stjepan Fiolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12374	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12375	Thank you. It's becoming an integral part. 39 MPs, "Dear Zgrebec."
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12376	Well, it's the same amendment. Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12377	Well, that's consummated. 40 HSS representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12378	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12379	The vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. 41 representatives of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12380	It's unacceptable. The proposal crosses the budgetary framework provided for by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12381	He's a colleague of Mršić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12382	Can we agree to lose the amount, let it remain within the law so that in the next year you can then determine the incentive to what it will be?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12383	Who's in favor of this amendment, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12384	Yeah, but no, let me explain then, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12385	Explain that because we can't deal with a question like this. It's not working, you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12386	I can't talk later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12387	Yes, but the minister has long wondered whether he will say no at first or will say yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12388	And he's not, he's like that in nature. He's just thinking, don't hesitate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12389	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12390	I've already made that decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12391	But Minister, I think it would be good to encourage, I understand the budget items and I understand that there are limits. However, if we put in larger reference yields or put in a smaller amount, but I think it would be good if we put this in an incentive in a way that people see that those productions that are not, therefore, classical productions such as feathers but, as it is, popcorn are, but geese and turkeys. And what's important, the owls that are growing more and more here, you know that there's a factory being built in Virus, this nove slaughterhouse and they need to be helped to exist. So, to open up there... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12392	Minister...... Who's up for that amendment? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 42 of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12393	It's unacceptable. When growing snails, initial investment investments are the most important for which users can provide support within the capital investment model.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12394	Here's the IDS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12395	So since there are only 51 farms in Croatia and the truth is that units of local self-government encourage the development of this, but taught to the European Union and the way they co-finance, or give incentives for such cultivation, they even give a 25% subsidy from the sale price of snails, and we went all the way to 10% of that incentive. Since this branch should be developed because there are large claims for exports, and this quantity of 75 tonnes does not cover what the claim is in Croatia. It means that we already have the market secured, that we should really encourage them to develop as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12396	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 43rd representative Vladimir Kuresic, Ivan Jarnjak, Ivana Sučec-Trakostanec, Carmela Caparin, Vladimir Pleška, Velimir Plesa and Katarina Fuček.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12397	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12398	It becomes an integral part of the law. 44, MP Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12399	A similar argument has already been accepted in the HSP proposal. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12400	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 45, IDS Representatives' Club. 45.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12401	It is not accepted, but within the rural development programme for all protected breeds, there will be also some opportunities that will be able to consume.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12402	Until that happens, until it's offered, we clearly hold that this amount should be $3,000. No, how much is it now? Three thousand 500 kunas return to the level of 7 thousand 500 kuna as it was by 2002. After that, Pankretić's Ministry of Agriculture "boskarins", under quotes, took down a fee from 7000 500 to 3 thousand 500 kuna. So, for three thousand kunas and we keep that high-level protection of autochthonic recognition. It is not Istria but the Republic of Croatia that it would be opportunised simply to do what was in part until 2002. Finally, I agree with you that you should encourage indigenouss, under quotes, varieties, indigenous varieties are part of our visibility, under quotes, part of our identity. If we lose them, we'll lose a piece of our identity. It's about 120 remaining copies of Istrian cattle and I really, gentlemen MPs, please support what your predecessors have supported from 92 to today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12403	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get enough. 46, HSS Representatives' Club. 46, Club of Representatives...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12404	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12405	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12406	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12407	Only when the "no" and "accept" splits, then we hear it still. Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. 47, the Club of Representatives of Libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12408	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12409	The vote, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 48, Club of HSP Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12410	This is where it's done. I'm sorry. It's unacceptable. There's one here, I'd say, that's the opposite of the vast majority of the other amendments. Here it is required to increase the minimum amount from 3 thousand to 5 thousand kilograms while most other amendments were the intensity to reduce the minimum incentive amount. ... We're holding, we've actually held one debate within the ministry, I'm saying, it's a specific amendment to everything, to the vast majority of others. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That even 3,000 kilograms for the present time and the equipment of fishermen and shellfishers is an appropriate amount and that we should not go to raise them a minimally stimulating amount of fish and shellfish.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12411	And this in the amendment to the division? This one about the Butcher, that's accepted, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12412	That's accepted, Butcher.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12413	Yeah, that's right. Comrade Tadic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12414	So this is actually about HSP wanting to apply a completely different policy of spreading maricculture in the Adriatic. There are major problems with sea pollution, of course, where owners stick to environmental standards somewhere they don't. But as a rule, the bigger the company, the more likely it is to invest in protection. And that's why we want to introduce a smaller number of larger producers, financially strong enough to invest in environmental protection around their farm than a large number of small breeders not capable of investing in their own protection. All my contacts with the shellfish say that just 11 barrels of accompanying equipment gives us five tons of mussels a year. So underneath, we're afraid that it'll all be actually the most ordinary experimental production that doesn't make sense or encourage, but Mr. Minister, since you've turned down most of our amendments, I wouldn't be surprised if you turned this one down, because it's really more important for the ministry to encourage the import of calves and so on into a built-in hero. So, please let us vote on this amendment anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12415	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. It's too bad it's a rock. 49th Representative Vladimir Kurečić, Ivan Jarnjak, Ivan Sučec-Trakostanec, Carmela Caparin, Vladimir Pleška, Velimir Plesa and Katarina Fuček.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12416	We accept, because this is one of the reasons I say milk, which is why we've asked for an emergency procedure so that we can pay off the amount that we couldn't pay off and pay off by the applicable law, and here it just means that this part of it is being extended to a certain period of time, a minimally encouraged amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12417	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 50 of the same group of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12418	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12419	Thank you. 51st of the same group of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12420	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12421	Thank you. 52. of the same group of representatives Kurečić, Jarnjak, Sučec-Tracostanec, Caparin, Pleško, Pleša, Katarina Fuček.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12422	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12423	And the 53rd representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12424	It's unacceptable. No, I don't. The noises in organic production are already in motion. And according to the WTO obligations, the Republic of Croatia must limit and reduce the incentives related to the quantity.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12425	Yeah. But Mr. Minister, this isn't about producing organic noise, or noise, pumpkins. This is about encouraging the production of oil that has an exceptional export chance and such producers, so right now I don't think there's even a drop of noise oil produced from organic baskets or droplets in Croatia. There may be pumpkins, there may be some hives, which are then exported, but we need to stimulate oil, so we're working here, it won't break the budget item, because we don't currently have any oil producers that produce it from organic baskets, we have a producer in Koprivnica who prepared it to plant it. But let's encourage him to actually start producing it. Because it's something that has an exceptional export chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12426	Okay. It's in the Nasics.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12427	And we in Koprivnica have oil that does it with... pressing, so the highest quality noise oil we produce and now encourage us to do it from the ecological baskets.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12428	Please. Who's in favour of this amendment? No, unfortunately, he got the required majority. And we're done with the amendments. Thank you, Minister Coffankovic. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, with 77 votes for, 9 against and 2 abstentions, the law amending and supplementing the Law on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry has been adopted in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the HSP Representatives Club, I am voting on the next conclusion. And I will sooner ask the Minister of Agriculture for a statement, the proposal for a conclusion is: The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Water Economy undertakes, without delay, to develop a programme for the planting of olive groves on the burned surfaces, and to report on the implementation of this programme three monthsly by the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12429	For the burned areas on the islands and in the coast, a programme was adopted for the restoration of several years of fire-fighting plantations, including olives. The rural development programme provides for measures to restore the burned forest and agricultural areas. So it's already scheduled for certain measures and programs. We believe that reporting every three months about this problem is also not appropriate, and activities related to this problem, which in any case is extremely important and important, are already being implemented, and will be carried out not only from part of the support of production, but also through rural development, which I would especially like to emphasise that more and more activities for protected species, that we will be doing certain programmes through rural development projects, as well as for certain projects, and, among other things, is foreseen through rural development, a specific programme of revitalisation or restoration of existing olives that are unfortunately not in office. We can't go through the form, these support that we've talked about through this law, but we're going to go through a program of revitalization and restoration of abandoned olive groves. They'll go through rural development.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12430	Here you go, pal Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12431	Mr. Secretary, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So every summer after the fire remains a common field, desert olive groves remain and naturally devastated areas of the island. Just look at Bishevo, which looks like a car bomb dropped on him. So, I'm asking you nicely to accept this conclusion, it doesn't have to be a quarterly report, it can be every half year... [[speaks off, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-05-26-0.u12432	A fellow Tadic minister gives a sign that he is ready to give a report once a year. Okay. Who's to make this conclusion once a year? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. I find that this proposal has been unanimously accepted with this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to - Proposal for an annual accounts of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2003 in accordance with Article 128. The Budget Act was submitted by the Government to that adoption act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The government also submitted a report on the use of the 2003 budget stock. You took the materials into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. I'd like the Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Shucker, to add an explanation of the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
