ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7806	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam MPs, gentlemen, allow me to explain to you the proposal for a law on special conditions for the placing of flour on the market. I would like first of all to stress that this is for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy is a very important law for a simple reason because there is a firm commitment to finally stop at the point I would say and to stop the grey economy in part of certain agricultural and food and other products that exist and that are found in a single illegal way on the market of the Republic of Croatia. For these reasons, I reiterate once again that this is the first such law and that in the coming period you can expect certain other laws that will address the issue of marketing other or better said other agricultural and food products that will soon follow. For these reasons, I would like to stress that the introduction of flour stamps is proposed in the framework of the proposal for measures to curb the illegal economy as one of the measures for the control of the production and transport of flour, and hence final products, bread and other bakery products. In this context, as of 5 January 2004, the Ministry of Finance has been responsible in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, and the State Inspectorate, in the short term, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to submit a draft law on special conditions for the placing on the market of flour. By subsequent agreement at the meeting of the Economic Coordination held on 9 March 2004, the holder of the draft Act on specific conditions for the placing of flour on the market, with the final proposal for a law, was responsible for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. The introduction of flour markings in rinfusion will allow for more efficient control of flour traffic in the Republic of Croatia. This means that in the case of legal and physical persons who place flour on the market immediately during routine controls, the possession of unregistered flour, or illegally obtained flour, may be established. In this way, the possibility of a grey economy in the area of the transport of flour and pastry products would be reduced. When I talk about the Law itself, I would like to stress that the Law contains 7 chapters and 14 articles. In the first 6 articles, the method and procedure of recording and marking flour stamps shall be arranged. The name and address of the competent authority of the competent authority of the Member State of the Member State of the issuing Member State shall be indicated. The obligation to keep records of the quantity of stocks of wheat, rye and corn and flour obtained by grinding these cereals shall be introduced. Article 7 defines administrative supervision of the implementation of the Law as well as inspection supervision. Articles 8, 9, 10 and 11 define criminal provisions for infringement of the Law, and Articles 12, 13 and 14 define the adoption of implementing rules within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the Law as well as the date of application of the Law. Here, this is in the shortest lines. Our urgency is that the Law goes by emergency procedure for a simple reason so that we can prepare whatever is necessary and that the Law begins to apply as of July 1st. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7807	Thank you very much, Minister. As regards the second proposal for the law of the club of representatives of HSS, the proposal for a law on the regulation of the market for flour, please on behalf of the HSS club, the respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go. You got a good haircut.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7808	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Well, here it is, in front of you, of course, and the proposal for the law of the HSS and that, I must at first emphasize, not for the first time and in the procedure of a month. I have to say that our Law certainly is in the first reading and it is worth some adjustments in the first reading, which is normal, but that we discussed it a month ago or maybe it's too bad that it wasn't before because it was like such a proposed day in the procedure almost two years ago. But here, now it's right in front of us. I can only say that I am sorry that perhaps a representative of the government, Mr. Minister, did not thank the HSS because he almost had a complete law only completed with some normal technical matters. Now he's exposed it here so I don't need it in technical detail. I think they've been told so far, so my debate will be more of a principled character. We have done this great work, and it is certainly our pleasure to discuss this Law today because it solves an extremely important issue. I think we're all aware of what the gray market means, which means the gray market, especially in this part. Not to mention how much bread, how many bakery products are produced, unfortunately, sometimes from undefined and non-existent flour. Or, I'd say, the wheat that appears almost out of nowhere. So we have many times different prices, dumped flour prices and many of the things that have happened to us so far. By this law, I believe that such practice will be resolved and that we will finally define what it means to produce in the bakery itself, but of course only to regulate the market. First of all, a big job was done in that part, to fix the wheat market. Now, of course, as we used to say, flour is in order, and I believe that in that way we will bring in completely then and the state in, on the bread market. I can stress that by insisting on this proposal, HSS was fully aware of what the gray market does not only in this segment but also in many others. Perhaps one sentence, specifically on the proposal, given that it is here on behalf of the Government that this proposal is narrowed to only three cereals, i.e. wheat, rye and corn. Since this covers almost 98% of the total market in flour, we also consider it acceptable in a certain way. I think that in this part, today here, I can conclude on behalf of the promoters that, given that the proposal has been made with all those observations made by the Committee on Law, and I believe that it will also be here in the debate of certain amendments, we will finally get the Law, and I believe in its application until harvest, and until the overall situation is settled in relation to this whole problem. Since here, as I said at the outset, the motion which is in emergency procedure and has not previously been discussed this proposal, I, on behalf of the motionor, withdraw our bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7809	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Do the committees, the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word on both of these laws? No desire. Then we'll have a club debate. The first on behalf of the SDP Club is the respected representative of Dragica Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7810	Mr. President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We have two laws before us that regulate the area of the flour market. One is who gave the club HSS and he is in the first reading while the government's proposal is in an emergency procedure. I think it might be better to consider both laws in the first reading, and we voted in a decision on an emergency procedure. However, given that the Government's proposal is in an emergency procedure, it will most likely be adopted in such a form, and therefore we have several objections to some of the provisions, i.e. we will also make several amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law on specific conditions for the placing of flour on the market. When we look at these two laws in parallel, then the law that has been passed by colleagues in the HSS gives something broader in an article that says what is meant under flour that should be marked on the flour market, compared to the Government's proposal. The fact is that from, from wheat, all other flour is actually in a smaller volume at present present on the market and in transport. However, it should be considered that with these three foods of three types of raw materials, wheat, rye, and corn, there may be something more to consider and that the Government itself does so with its own amendment. I'm saying, since the government's proposal is in emergency procedure, I'm going to have a little more discussion on behalf of our club on this one, this proposal. In the bakery activity, it was in fact the fastest that it was decomposed and that bread is produced largely in craftsmanship today. This is also one of the reasons why there are smaller or more difficult supervisions, inspection controls, but also tax controls. In the very explanation of both the bill and the other, it is said that there is, in fact, a lot of gray economy in this activity and that it is not affected, no matter how many inspections have been carried out, it is not fully or fully controlled. It could have been seen even years ago, if statistics were followed, which per activity and per product is followed year by year of production. So it could be seen that in three, four years, a significant decline in the product in the bakery industry, which was not in reality, but precisely because more and more bread and other baker's products were working on a craftsman's, craftsman's sphere which was not even obliged to monitor it statistically. I think it's good, and it seems to me that, in that sense, the minister in the opening statement said that with some products that are already following the stamping, it's alcohol, it's cigarettes, now we're talking about flour, that other products that are in such a way as coffee are also trying to solve in a way that, that they have to be marked with special stamps. And when I said we had a few objections, I would go specifically. It is Article 6(1), where it is proposed to keep mandatory records of the quantity of supplies. And it is not said that only flour and raw materials should be managed, it is not said that they should also be kept in the area of production of such records. So we suggest that paragraph 1 is amended and that it reads as follows: The legal or natural person who produces flour including the serviced grinding of wheat, rays and corn is obliged to keep records of the quantity of supplies and here we add and process wheat, rye and corn, and transport and supply of flour. If we just stopped on stock records, it wouldn't give the right picture of what production was and we wouldn't achieve the desired effects that this law wants to achieve. In view of the fact that Article 7 of point 3 speaks of inspectors who are to conduct surveillance being able to place an oral decision on the site of a legal or natural person if such infringements are found, so those who do not have the records marked by a mark may close it for 30 days, and continue to have the consequences. Here we also have observations, at least we have received in terms of amendments to the Croatian Chamber of crafts. In fact, they are urged that if this were to be regulated in such a way that Article 30 would be injured. The Constitution. I don't think that's true. Rather, we would say that this can be prescribed and applied to Article 49. The Constitution of paragraph 2 which states that the state must provide all entrepreneurs with the same legal position on the market. It is, in fact, that those who carry out their activities in this way have a more favourable position on the market and that they are certainly unfair competition to those who keep all records and pay all the obligations on, for their own, on the basis of their manufactured products. It seems to me that such an amendment should not be accepted. When it comes to criminal provisions, the criminal provisions for legal, or fictitious persons are laid down here. However, given that it is the same criminal acts, if you look at the points in Articles 8 and 10, it seems unnecessary to have in criminal provisions four articles and can be resolved in a way that says in Article 8 that a fine of between 30 and 100 thousand kuna will be fined by a legal person, and that the following adds that a natural person will be punished in the amount, we propose between 5 and 50 thousand kuna. Since the proposal here is for a person to be punished minimally with a thousand kunas, we do not think that it is enough fine to stimulate the person who is engaged in this activity and does not work in accordance with the regulations to avoid repeating such penalties. Thus, if this is accepted, Articles 10 and 11 are unnecessary and should be deleted. In the end, let me say, here we are not opposed to the passing of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7811	I thank my dear colleague, Dear Zgrebec. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic, on behalf of the HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7812	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I must say what we have said in determining the agenda, that we are opposed, but this is almost an urgent adoption of this law, because again it is a law that is not sufficiently emulated and does not guarantee that as such it will be implemented in a way that protects the state budget, i.e. the revenues of the state budget. We on the Legislative Committee have had a significant number of amendments, it is about two-thirds, and this should be taken into account in the future, and on the other hand, there has been plenty of time, as this takes effect, or would apply from 1 July of this year. Not much said here, so I'll try to tell you more about the big problem. You know that the position of the HSP Club is that the state budget should address what its income is, in any domain, and that we should at all, means the instruments have such that we stop the grey economy. One example is this one. Another example is tobacco. The third example is oil and oil derivatives. You saw that you had a review report that 550,000 tobacco stamps were missing in 2002, which again says that there are huge losses of the state. Minister Cobankovic, by contrast, did not hear that he said how many states he would get by passing this law. On the board, he told us it was about 35 million kuna. Now, I'll get you the official information, and you'll see that it's a far, far larger amount. According to statistical data from the 2003 Croatian Yearbook, this was spent on page 187 per household member in 2002 21.69 kilograms of flour, 65.50 kg of bread and other bakery products shown in flour. Two kilos of cake and biscuits, and 10.56 kilos of pasta. These amounts are spent only in the household. The total calculation of 4.5 million inhabitants in Croatia says the total annual consumption is about 440 thousand tonnes of flour. To these quantities should be added at least 10% more, walking consumption or standing and catering and tourism. Total means the amount needed to secure this consumption is about 630 thousand tonnes. And now we're seeing data on production, so we're going to get some fragrant data. In 2002, we produced something about 320 thousand, 376 tons of wheat flour and wheat crumbs, and we produced some 136 thousand tons of bakery products. And now you see how important the difference between how much we officially spend flour and everything else is, how much we produce. It already points to that part that there's a huge area of so-called. The grey economy, which is also indicated in the Croatian Peasant Party's proposal. Now I'm going to give you further data, only on this production and consumption base of bakery products, so in 2002 it was manufactured officially in Croatia, I've been looking at imports, it's small, it's 136 thousand tonnes, according to this statistics, means how much we've produced, it turns out that it's spent per capita of 31.2 kg, but according to official data, how much is spent, that year per capita in Croatia, 87.3 kg. And that's where we get the difference, if it's only baker's products, so for 87.3 kg it's supposed to produce 392 thousand 850 tons. Our official data is 13,000 tons, the difference is important, which means 256 thousand 850 tons. And if we take the price now, so that retailer is easy to come by, now you're going to see what kind of data. Let's say the price is an average which is about 2 euros somewhere, and now let's just see what the VAT losses are. The VAT would be 0.44 eras for these 2 euros, so this amount of 256 thousand 850 tonnes is multiplied, we get 112 million 914 thousand euros, converted into kunas, we get to nearly billions. Well, we're moving on now, the gray economy, so there's work on black. And there are many others. No contributions, no pensions, no health care, no this. I'm not alone, so I included flour and wheat in that part of it, I've watched imports, exports, there's no difference, obviously there's a huge, huge gray economy going on what? State budget. So, Mr. Minister, you see, these data are official and statistical saying that here we should go immediately and cover everything because that way the state budget will get what it belongs to without introducing any additional taxes. That's what I expect the government to do for both oil derivatives and all other things. And that way, let the state pick up what belongs to her. Because here, this is all meaning gray economy, there's wealth lawlessness, there's work on black, all that's left, so the frampantic data are and I think if the Croatian Parliament took these official data, it wouldn't just be possible to go over these data and facts. I said to the text of the law that we had that part that we did on the Legislative Committee. There is still a lack of evidence that neither the Committee has seen in Article 11 is mentioned in addition to the fines and infringements referred to in Article 8 and Article 8 refers to the punishment of legal persons to be set out in Article 10, because it is a matter of physical relations. And otherwise, I have to warn that it's very dangerous to say this protective action is where discretion is put on, so to the inspectors, which is a very dangerous thing. We must not, discretion law is a very dangerous right, especially in situations like this when it comes to the prohibition of a safeguard measure... Activities, it must be precisely prescribed when and under what conditions such measures will be imposed, whether we will be 15, 20, what is the damage to the state and other things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's how we get to legal certainty. Because this is how the variant is if it's Mate it's gonna go like this, if it's Ante, it's gonna go like this, if it's Stojan it's gonna go like this. That's right, inadmissible. And because of that, and because of that thing we were about to go into two readings to get this part fixed too. Therefore, Mr. Minister, you see that this is far greater, the higher revenue will be the state budget than you said 35 million kuna. But we have to do what we can to keep track of all phases. So from the wheat in the mills, be careful because the capacity of our mills is vast, far greater than what Croatia needs, follow the wheat from the beginning to the end, no country will dig and punish but take what is its. And then when we take the state budget, then we have a job, for all the other things. It would be one household management of the state budget, one household behavior and the government, that the state take what belongs to it and in situations where it is established, we really have to go to variations, we always advocate in Croatia a party to the right to go through harsh sanctions for prevention. Sharp sanctions for prevention. You yourself know that the issue of working time of the catering facilities was resolved only by Mr. Pavle Kalinic, on behalf of the SDP Club in the previous session, giving work longer than the allowed working time when it started with a 30-day ban on work when it was established, automatically introduced order in the area. And in this way we must introduce order in all areas, not by punishing and sanctioning discrimination, but because of clean prevention. Therefore, let's go into that part and make and introduce order in the functioning of the rule of law and that we can finance projects that mean, let's start Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7813	Thank you very much. Minister Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7814	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would first of all like to thank the gentlemen of the representatives and representatives of the Clubs for, I would say a dose of understanding why the Government goes into such a law. And I, at the very beginning of the exhibition, stressed that one of the priorities of this government and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the water economy to put under control would say almost all the products that are on the market. For the simple reason we're coming up, I'd say amazing data on a large amount of gray market and gray economy. Normally, I didn't say, I'm sorry, this assessment that I made on the 35 million kuna Agriculture and Forestry Committee conditionally stated the benefits it would achieve, which the budget would achieve, according to our projections, it should refer to the first, first year of application. And I think it's very difficult, you tried Mr. Kovacevic, MP you tried mathematically to reach certain calculations which I absolutely support. And I would also like to say that, in this context, I think that these quantities that have been exported to consumption, that our real consumption of flour is somewhere between 400 to 440 tonnes, because we can also find that at the end of the line in the amount of wheat consumed in the Republic of Croatia. It's another thing. I would like to point out that we have very much some understanding for HSS initiatives related to the adoption of this Act, but here, I would like to stress that this government has the consent to enter these processes, which in no case are easy or simple, but for a simple reason, here we have determined that we want to bring order to the market and I am holding no matter what the individual committees have observed quickly, I believe that we have done this law in a relatively short time. Our insistence on an emergency procedure is heading in the direction that during this period we have to do some more work so that we can start applying it as I said on July 1st. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7815	Thank you very much. One addition on behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7816	Mr. President, so a very short sentence, so here I accept this thanks from Mr. Minister for the HSS initiative, so I think we'll continue to work on giving other initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7817	On behalf of the Libre Club, Honorable Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7818	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to refer on behalf of the Libre Club to the proposal for a law on special conditions for placing flour on the market. It is therefore now a law proposed by the government since the Croatian Peasant Party withdrew its proposal. Club Libre supports the proposed law because we believe its adoption is the first step towards introducing order to the chaotic flour market. We also believe that the obligation of such market surveillance should be introduced to other agricultural products in particular in the meat market and we are glad to hear that it will go further to that end. That the situation in the market for flour is very worrying also some estimates that even about two billion kunas turn on the grey market in Croatia. That in the market for flour, the right to anarchy is confirmed by the data that it is almost common for a large number of taxpayers who are engaged in bakery activities, and according to the inspectorates and tax collectors, it is common that there are no documents on the purchase of flour. So flour is, therefore, flour is without origin. That there are surpluses and flour shortages, that the use of normatives for the production of the quantities of flour obtained is not an actual but significantly smaller quantity of finished products. For example, tax administration inspectors found in 2003 that the activity of bakers with 211 violations and 102 sealing of the business premises of taxpayers is one of the activities with the most established operating offences. And the largest number of infringements relate precisely to the non-identification of the value of the products actually produced and sold and to the incorrect display of the actual consumption of raw materials in order to avoid payment of legal obligations. So other than reducing the grey economy, we believe that control of the movement of wheat will also bring order into the stock stores, i.e. the storage of wheat in silos that has often mysteriously disappeared as it has recently happened in Slatina where farmers have lost 1,000 tonnes of stored wheat in silos. The wheat has certainly not evaporated but has been turned into bread, which we assume has earned an enormous profit. This would not be possible if only registered wheat flour could be used to produce bread. And the market for bread and bakery products in Croatia is huge. We're only talking about the legal one. We have already heard the annual average of the consumption of bread and bakery products of Croatia is 68 kilograms per year per household member and a total of about 300 thousand tonnes per year. Bread, it's bread and pastry products. And the question is at which price and how some have come to the re-comparation and what amount of bread they have reported as sold because the data speak about 125 thousand tonnes of produced bread annually compared to 300 tonnes of spent bread and bakery products per household member, what is registered. So there is a big gap and the ministry rightly expects that by introducing stamps in the second half of this year they will collect about 35 million kuna. However, this move should serve as an increased labour control to address the problem of working on black in bakerys, and should be additionally filled on the basis of the payment of contributions to employees. It is a pity, however, that these funds will be largely focused on consumption rather than on development through the budget. Dear colleagues and colleagues Club Libra will therefore, with the support of some proposed amendments, support this Act in order to introduce flour markings in rinfuze and packings to enable more effective control of the transport of flour in the Republic of Croatia and thus affect the reduction of the grey economy, or we could say a real pair of markets in which, without control and any obligations, big profits are made. Let me also point out that this Law will go the most in favour of and at the hands of all those entrepreneurs who have done their job and so far carried out fairly and legally according to the laws of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7819	Thank you, dear colleague Pavlic. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, representative Marko Širac. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7820	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs. The HDZ representative club considers it necessary to regulate the conditions for placing flour on the market by law. The introduction of flour stamps is only one measure of control of the production and transport of flour, and hence the final products of flour, bread and other bakery products. That the situation is really complex in this area is that my predecessors also confirm the measures carried out by inspection surveillance during 2000, 2001 and 2002, where so many inspection controls that have been carried out are still being found. The maximum number of such infringements refers to the records of the value of the actual, actual and sold quantities of products and the net real consumption of raw materials to avoid payment of legal obligations. The situation as I said was no better in 2001 and 2002. The control carried out by inspection of the correctness of the application of legal regulations in the manufacture and transport of bakery products in the case of taxpayers engaged in the bakery activity found that a large number of applicants lacked documents on the supply of flour. There are surpluses and shortages of basic raw materials for production. In addition, the supervision has established non-compliance with the rules on the issue of invoices, registration of turnovers, incorrectly established pre-taxes in the calculation of value added tax and other rules and that, due to the poor quality of unregistered flour, bakery products are products of inadequate quality. The introduction of flour markings in rinfuze and in packs will enable more efficient control of the traffic of goods in the Republic of Croatia to reduce the grey economy in the area of the transport of flour and pastry products. At the very same time, we have no specific objections and we propose and support the adoption of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7821	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, dear colleague Ivan Kolar. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7822	Dear Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, here's a chance to say a few words about agriculture aimed at the Law on Special Conditions for the placing of flour on the market and the final bill of law. It was already said before that the HSS has tried for the second time to initiate law-making, and here the government is finally proposing by its law that this area be resolved. I'd like to let me mention, however, why we're even suggesting this law twice, which is why we insist on an arrangement of the flour market and on the right to the problems in that field. It is said that it is mostly a gray market, which is reflected ultimately on a rich number of people and I, responsible for the name of HSS, say that it is a business agrobusiness that was under the patronage of the Ovgoa or the one without mentioning the name was targeted and made possible from the privacy of the cyano to the former workings of this kind of unconverted privatised company. a simple departure of income for the benefit of an individual or part of a community. You are all together with a lot of witnesses of wheat affairs that are a confidently said product of the unsettled market. Because producing a kilo of wheat or a ton, two three or four per hectares as much as anyone who has already succeeded in severe torment and multiple times on the road achieves such a price, in the end, it was the result that this raw material served an illegal market for wealth but as I said to an individual or a group of certain citizens. I think the indirect regulation of the market by the introduction of the records stamps we're indirectly solving and conditionally speaking, it's wheat. Hers as safe as anyone's and the traffic way of actually finding him in the Republic of Croatia. The fact that Ilisia that the dairy bakery industry has total control over our wheat production I know and the minister knows it the day of emiju. I think we're leaving one maneuvering space out of the reach of the law and our tax press. Because the rehabilitated companies have repeatedly been one incubator of grey or black economy, where they placed flour under every economic account for their needs. Without the need to name, they knew that certain entities produced thousands of tonnes of wheat themselves stored on the market of flour, processed their mill, placed flour and dumped prices at the disposal of the honest ones who bought or stored their own mill, especially those who went with the finished product, whether it was some other baker's products, so we support the adoption of this Act by the Croatian peasants. And we hold to the minister's word that this is not an attempt to make part of the regulation of our market that doesn't work, but that it's just the beginning and we're giving it full support to continue with the regulation of the absolute meat market not to speak any further, all because we all know the situation on our market. And if an agreement has already been reached, we agree that the problem can be solved and that this is the first step. I am trying to here on behalf of the HSS to now direct a few well-intentioned guidelines that we want to help and suggest by the minister already when the ace is talking about the regulation of the market that should be guided about the domestic product of care. The domestic market is particularly concerned with the emphasis that imported products that are harder to come to our market or at least not by excessive quantities. I think the minister recognizes these are already beginning negotiations because part of this mill of ours is being exposed to one such press, if it is otherwise agreed or if the quotas are pneumatic. So it would be good if we were not to edit the market in an intervening buy-in way, but systematically as this example is now being discussed. We need to draw attention to the need to enable those because they are natural or legal persons who accept the deposit mean the availability of wheat for their own needs so-called. their own needs that peasants exempt in such a way that some of the flour can get some of the livestock food. Not to be burdened not by such a natural or legal person by imposing these stamps but by allowing them some kind of, I now do not know how to do it technically, a common stamp as it is river-like on the transport of common documents. That I say my five tons when I'm excepting that it's known that it's been processed into cattle, that flour is produced and placed but that when I do financially because we're still accounting for it, I can justify it. I don't know if you understand where the problem is. Because I come from one end where one work organization stores 22 to 25 thousand tons of wheat for its own use, say spending half of us as peasants, driving and feeding cattle flour for cattle and food. And I think there's a need to have understanding for such needs. And a way to make it properly marked, and to be properly sanctioned. That these working organizations or private individuals have no problems. A lot of amendments have been submitted hard to cope with now because they're just nomotechnic or in-houses of some other intensity. I believe that ultimately this law is a single indication that, as long as there is a good will, the boss must show his good will and it is now a resolute ministry and all those ministries that follow that part. YES, then we can easily get to the results where we're all satisfied. Well, here's to not only being some kind of initiator, we're also the ones who intend to support this bill, to vote for it. And we expect that such or similar legal proposals in the regulation of the market for further agricultural markets should be one indication of how to help the village of the peasant, the agricultural producers involved in agricultural production in one or this form. And ultimately to ensure their safety. Because this means that if we fix the flour market this means that the wheat market will be arranged. And I am telling Mr. Minister that the wheat market has not been regulated by the wheat market. I am telling Mr. Minister, that the wheat market is not fully arranged, that we are due for a moment of hot harvest, and as soon as possible to avoid such a situation, is in the debate in this House or somewhere else, because all other waiting and waiting for what kind of price should be, who should arrange it and how I think it gives a lot of indication of speculation and one uncertainty. So let's make it one of our constructive contributions to solve problems in this House that they eventually agree, if possible, and then there's agriculture as much as there are indications and security in which direction they need to go. I remind everyone that agricultural production is a specific agricultural production and it is difficult to handle the competition. Without the active involvement of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will not be able to stand on healthy feet, and therefore again we are looking for active participation on behalf of the HSS, and this is how the Government of the Republic, the Resord Ministry, will support agricultural production in any form it is doing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7823	Thank you very much, colleague. Next up is Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7824	We will only support this law in front of the CNS because we want the situation to be settled in agriculture. If the situation for agriculture is settled, we hope that other production in agriculture will also begin, which I think is very important before Croatia enters the European Union to clean up the situation on agricultural land and market. I think the Croatian government will help this law finally move with one direction so that we can solve the situation on other examples, in other products that we have in production in the same way. I think as far as flour and wheat in Dalmatia are concerned, we have a situation where wheat serves us more for cattle than for flour that has been the situation so far, and I hope that in the future, by regulating the wheat and flour markets, we will be able to avoid this situation and we will be able to organise wheat production throughout the country. I think we're gonna back this law in front of the HNS, and that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7825	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, I have to say that I had to read the law three times, and my reasoning was more often and more. Why? Because in me, it's a discrepancy between reason and law. Because of this discrepancy, immediately to point out I did, I support the need for legislation to regulate the flour market and everything that is related to it, but why an emergency procedure. Why emergency procedure? When none of the speakers said that matter was simulated in practice. That it's been confirmed that this will solve the problem in practice. No one's even suggesting it. There's something else I have to tell you, I'm not that old, but I remember. This reminds me of a monopoly of tobacco. When in my neighborhood a field has to register, set up a board and a civil servant comes in to sign up for how many tobacco seedlings have been planted and how much you have to hand over to the state. If so, it deserves more attention from both the Parliament and the Ministry. If that's the case, it requires more attention from both the Parliament and the Ministry. If the gray market of flour as a social product has so much taken over the official market, then gentlemen it requires spotlessly that the Government provides us with information on the basis of inspections and findings that corresponds to the real situation. I'm sorry if the information is valid that by age, it doesn't matter now, only two and a half million misdemeanors have been taken away from the property benefit and that's the social danger you're talking about. So is that the answer to the problem? I think the problem really is bigger. There is no need to ignore the financial effects of that market illegally, no need to ignore them, but social effects are far greater. It's about our daily bread. It is that it affects the gray market, affects every man, every citizen of the Republic of Croatia more than those effects for the budget. More than these are the effects of the budget. If we would just look at the effects on the budget, please, everyone in Croatia remembers the wheat affairs, one, the other, the third. We don't know what the results were of these wheat affairs. No effects on the gray market of flour or on the budget. We don't have accurate reports for that. If we add that the problem in Croatia is already being placed on the market of genetically modified organisms that we have not precisely stated, and they are absolutely large and unfair competition with products that are not genetically modified, what about these effects for the budget. What's with the effects? And so it could spin in order. This should also be added to the fact that the Act on the Market or the Protection Act says that each product placed on the market must have a declaration. So what's the declaration? It's a stamp. Who produced, how much he produced, which is the composition. And wait, if that's not a stamp, then what's a declaration. What's the declaration? It changes the content of a mandatory declaration that must be placed on the market. Well, I don't understand, but I encourage others to understand. I'm asking the question, so let me answer it. Why would we have a double regulation of one matter? Is that the meaning of the clarity of the message to customers and the market? It's not. This is why I appeal once again to give up the emergency procedure, simulate the nature of the effects of this law, do the right job, protect the flour market, protect the interests of the state budget, and not compromise the laws for normative optimism, but to solve the real situation in the market and in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7826	Thank you very much, colleague. The following has been reported for debate by representative Josip Leko. Here you go, my colleague. Thank you very much. The next reported one is counterpart Miroslav Korenik. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7828	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues and Mr. Minister. Surely this is a major problem in the Republic of Croatia, but it seems to me that we must all make it clear and loud together that the inspections have obviously not done enough in the past. And in this explanation of this Law, it's about the illegal benefit that has taken place, it's about working on black, and I think someone in this country should be responsible and clearly say how that the inspections of work that should have done their part of the job failed to catch enough of those working in this activity on black. Likewise, as my colleague Leko said, not to repeat, it seems to me that there has finally been and there has been an earlier good will because it is seen and it is incorrect when it is claimed that previous years of inspections have not done their job because a certain unlawful benefit has been taken away. However, in the domain of what we are talking about, it is absolutely certain that this is insufficient in view of the type of problem and the production of wheat. Thus, the long - range and flour involved. I will, however, be limited to one part of this Law and to the parts of which I was encouraged by a group of bakers from Varazdin County. Here it is said, I will quote, "The largest number of violations", refers to earlier periods, "regarded to the unidentification of the value of the really produced and sold quantities of products and to the incorrect display of the actual consumption of raw materials to avoid payment of legal obligations". I must stress that in the bakery industry, especially in these small bakers, the biggest profit is obtained by producing all kinds of pastries. And that's why, encouraged by these bakers who told me, I'm going to read to make it very clear what this is about. It should be defined which flour that can be used for the production of certain flour products. Of course, this cannot be regulated by the basic basic law, and it is necessary to bring it very quickly and I appeal to the Government to be far away before this Law comes into force and all necessary sublegal acts are passed. Or, if we are going to define the quality of flour from which the products may be produced, the so-called “species” should be determined. analytical sheets which would have to, therefore, determine the type and quality of flour according to which it would rank for a particular type of production. At that time, the correct percentage of water intake in flour could be determined because these percentages, they bounce according to the existing Regulation from 50 to 62% on the quantity of flour. In fact, if the analysis sheets determine which flour after drinking water, the percentage of gluten and its energy is responsible for the production of bread, pastry or other products, then we would get the correct control of production and thus, without stamps, we would be able to control and determine, i.e. to establish very precise, quick and clear who is trying and who cheats on the country in this area. Of course, even the stamps, no matter what we can have, the declarations and everything else, are not a bad solution because it all contributes to the state getting more and collecting more taxes, I don't think at these times particularly can be bad. There's another problem coming up, and I think he's gonna keep picking up. This is the problem of buying, i.e. putting flour on the market in the infusion. Far more difficult to control is the flour that is on the black. The example works, one tow truck where the flour is brought to black, puts it in silos. This does not mean that the other flour on the night of any procedure cannot be blacked out because after one analysis one type or one quantity of flour will be rotated... These products can also be sold on black multiple occasions. [[You don't understand.]] So this should be looked at in particular, and it seems to me that perhaps it would be more logical, perhaps smarter at this hour to pass the law by an urgent procedure, not by an urgent procedure. To point out this kind of problem to see what can be done. I also believe that control of the bakery and mill industry would be as precise and more useful if, as I have already said, this dosage of the percentage of the water that goes into the raw materials was precisely prescribed. Now there's too much range from 50 to 62%. So, one hundred pounds of flour is either 50 to 62 liters of water. Or we could say free kilos of water, and that's a big difference, and there's a pretty possible source of manipulation, and there's a part of the sale on black. Also, when I say that we should talk about the quality of flour that can be used for a kind of bakery or other products because now they are often used for the market, but also because of what our declarations contain and our sublaws, the weaker quality of flour is used for the production of bread. That's how our consumers are cut off. I think that we can rely here and on the Consumer Protection Act because I think that by adopting these regulations and on the analytical sheets, it could be far better and better-quality to solve this problem. That's why you support the law yes. I would ask once again to consider a possible emergency procedure, especially related to the sale, i.e. the marketing of flour in rinfuze, but it seems to me that this may be the first encouraging step to move. In addition, we have made a proposal to the two and what the Chamber of crafts has made as well. I think I personally wonder if it's okay if the inspector can orally, orally give someone a labour ban. I agree that in administrative proceedings, possibly in court, yes. Because those who cheat on the state certainly didn't deserve to be allowed normal work like everyone else. However, if we give it into subjective and discretionary law to one inspector, I'm afraid there will be an anomaly on the ground and it would not be good for this type of production to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7829	Thank you very much, colleague. Next is the respected representative Zdravko Sočković. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7830	Thank you very much, esteemed Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. I come as a representative from Slavonia, a Croatian cereal store, and I believe that this problem is related to the market for flour and the bakery industry is quite well known to me. The market for flour in Croatia and the recording of the actual quantities of products produced and sold, as well as the incorrect demonstration of the consumption of raw materials in bakery products, is the real Eldorado for fast and illegal earnings on the one hand and the loss of income of the Croatian state on the other. It is precisely the unsettled state of the market for flour and bakery products that are one of the generators of the grey economy and one enables the non-payment and non-indentation of VAT. Non-recognition of profits and taxes on profits, non-reporting of workers, and thus non-payment of contributions, health, pension and others, make up another company that pays all its obligations and reports all its workers completely incompetent and unjustly subtracts part of their earnings. And more and more firms like that that report neatly push and lose a step with the black market. A number of observed irregularities in the work of the control of taxpayers involved in the production and transport of bakery products, as well as numerous labour irregularities over the past few years talk about the urgent need to develop a law on special conditions for placing flour on the market. In order to monitor the production and transport of flour and other bakery products, it is necessary to introduce flour stamps as one of the measures to combat illegal business. The application of the Law on the regulation of the market for flour from 1 July will allow the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy to make all necessary preparations and welcome this application to the Law. I expect that this will be just the beginning of a fight for the systematic repression of the grey economy on the agricultural market and that the application of the law will allow for a level playing field for grey economic operators and for equating their conditions of adjustment, on the one hand, and for better filling the state budget on the other hand. As part of the text of the final proposal for a law on special conditions for placing flour on the market, there was a lot of debate on which the oral solution to the ban on carrying out an activity which has the right to issue an economic inspector as if it were not a good solution and that the oral order could result in the termination of the entire activity of a company. On the contrary, I think that without drastic criminal measures, we will have a hard time introducing order on the flour market. But there's something else that's very interesting. HSS colleagues say they talked about it two years ago, so they suggested it, so they asked for it. But I wonder why they never adopted it when they were in power. Because as they say now, they are not just saying that they forced us to propose a law, not to be proposed by the Croatian Democratic Community within the framework of their economic programme. But now that we have heard the presentation of respected SDP MPs, that the law is not yet passed, that it be postponed for a while, then I am no longer surprised why this law was never passed during the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7831	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The last to be reported is the respected representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7832	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'd just like to warn you of two aspects of this law. I'll also say at the beginning that I will support the adoption of this law. But why are we even passing this law? In order to allow for more efficient market surveillance as explained. But the question arises, why so far have we not made it effective to control the market, since there are many institutions, inspectorates and other institutions that are responsible for controlling and regulating the de facto market in Croatia, not only the flour market, but other raw materials and finished products. So I'm afraid that by passing this law we're actually slightly closing our eyes to a fundamental problem, and the main problem is that there is no, that we recognize the ineffectiveness of inspection supervision in Croatia and that there is no effective way of controlling certain parts of the Croatian market. We here will now regulate and bring into an even position those who have so far worked fairly against those who have so far worked unfairly. Now we're finally going to lead to someone being shut down because of a kilo of flour. And the question arises why this could not be closed by now if we already have data on the fact that these irregularities have been identified in a number of inspections. Why were they still allowed to work? And now because of a single stamp on one kilo of flour, they'll be in a position to be closed. So, the essence of this problem is not that all goods, so we assume that we're going to have to mark and service somehow, we're putting stamps, but the bottom line is that the system is dividing in a way that prevents any abuse of position, to prevent an unequal market position. Because if someone kept working on it, and it was primarily big businesses, for example, Podravki didn't think of having illegal flour, having illegal wheat, it was all neatly paid, and it was in an unequal position compared to the one who had it, and that was possible in inspection and was discovered. Now we're legalizing that market position, but let's settle it to one, one measure on only one product group, on only one product, and that's flour. So the question arises, how many other product groups or products there are that are equally unequal market positions of various producers in Croatia and, in particular, in this segment, so large, small and medium-sized ones. I'm afraid there's a lot of that in agriculture. But, for example, whether we're going to place a stamp on every crate of apples or on every sack of carrots, so that we can also control the market and these raw materials, or we'd better step up inspection, or not strengthen it, but make it efficient. I'm afraid this law really recognises that in the agricultural segment there is absolutely inefficient inspection supervision. And secondly, we're not only introducing stamps here right now, we're also introducing drastic punishments. So what happened, for example, in the restaurant, will happen that inspectors have the right to close the catering facility for 30 days because of the extra kuna in the register, and that, for example, the catering facility in which the daily event is fought over the law, the application of the Law on Public Order and Peace, they have no right to close at all. So here we are now putting someone in a position that because of a kilo of flour will be disabled in their further work, although so far he has violated perhaps more and more powerful that law. While many worse, even more socially dangerous stores, the same employer will not be in that position. So, one who doesn't just do flour. We can close it because of a kilo of flour, but it can work a whole series of other far more dangerous social, socially more dangerous shops, and that's why we won't close it. Especially not good because the inspector can do it orally. And he can lock him up for trespassing. It is not good to impose such a strict measure as a ban on work because of the offence. It should primarily be fined, other ways of punishment should be found, but it is no good to make it impossible for the laws to prevent entrepreneurs from working. Entrepreneurs should be enabled to work. However, they should be fined for the offences they commit, i.e. they should be disabled precisely by the system and inspection supervision to think of doing such a thing at all. It should be borne in mind that by closing an employer who had a kilo of flour without a stamp, I banalize the thing, because the stamp is not only a problem in the employer, because usually the employer does not do all the work himself, but comes to the question of a number of jobs, people who work with that employer. And I think we should adopt here anyway, and I've seen that a large number of MPs have given an almost identical amendment that we've received from the craftsmen's association. Therefore, that ban on labour should be removed as an opportunity to impose measures. It was infringing, either, verbally anyway, but also in a misdemeanor procedure for sure. Unless it's really something that's terribly dangerous for this society, then you should say OK. You can't work at all anymore, or you can't work for a little while. So I support bringing this place in. It may not be good to bring it into an emergency procedure, because we may not be able to valorize all measures again, and we may be in an unequal position, because the large one will need more preparation to adapt to it, so they will probably need some other things probably and financial resources more than small ones. But this law warns us that we cannot solve everything by special labelling of products or groups of products, but that the system must act in a way that prevents inspection of such behaviour or those acting on fines to force them to act in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7833	I thank my esteemed colleague Mršić. Correction of an incorrect quote, a respected fellow representative, Zvonimir Puljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7834	The incorrect allegation of Mršić's colleagues as well as some previous debaters is that they oppose the introduction of stamps as an instrument for the control of the market for flour with the division of inspection services. It's like she's shutting each other down. This is not so, however, because it is absolutely certain that inspection services will be more efficient and that they will be made easier if stamps are introduced. The best evidence for this is the introduction of tobacco stamps, as well as alcohol because it immediately felt the inflow in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7835	Thank you very much. I'm asking Minister Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7836	Mr. President. Let me finally thank Mr. Representatives and intercessors who I understood from the debate that they support the adoption of such a law. That we may differ in certain modes, that even among these amendments, there is a good part of the amendments of nomotechnical nature that we will normally take into account when we declare our amendments. But I would like to point out here, there have been a lot of objections to Article 7 of paragraphs 3, 4 and 5, which in the section of the MPs advocate that these items should be deleted. We stand at the point that, as with this law, we want to show a certain determination that even in this way, no matter how it seems to be drastic measures, but that we have to sort of clear up with those who want to work normally, honestly, and from those who don't want to do it that way. It is because of those and those who did not want to operate according to the norms of normal behavior that we were forced to go to on such one, I would say the law on special conditions for placing for the market of a agricultural product of flour. For these reasons, I am standing on the stand and that is the view of the government that we must show that we want to put an end to it. I don't think it should be mixed anyway, that someone for a kilo or 10 kilos or not to say 100 kilograms of unmarked flour will then follow the measures, ban the activities done. Normally, both the betrayer and the oral measure will likely assess the severity of the offense and will behave accordingly. But I want to point out that we are staying in that attitude and, unfortunately, it may not be popular, it is not nice to hear but if there are no other methods, we must finally show one determination that we really want to apply it in practice. We don't want this law to be a holy guide so here's what we've been doing, and now what we're going to be, we simply want it to be in practice and to actually put order through it, to teach people that we have to do according to the laws. There was also a speech that conditionally said great producers, that it would be a great burden for them, would require more work, records, supplies and everything, but I would like to stress that exactly the intensity of most of the major producers who, as a rule, Mršić has cited one that I assume is doing in accordance with the regulations, precisely their urgency was heading towards doing something sooner to introduce order on the market. So they don't think it's one load for themselves, they think they're finally going to be in the same position as others. Because if someone's working illegally, then he's in a far more favourable situation than the one that works legally. Here, for these reasons, we remain with these certain proposals that unequivocally show our commitment. In this context, I am thanking everyone who supported it once again. And again, once again, our insistence on an emergency procedure is only in the context that we can prepare other implementing regulations as soon as possible, so that we can design and make stamps. And maybe I'll just say about the renfusing flour traffic. Today, there are security stamps where this part of the problem that some MPs have been talking about can be dealt with in an extremely elegant way. For these reasons, and for reasons to show one seriousness and commitment to this process, we insisted on an emergency procedure. We need time to go to other products and if we could devote ourselves to making similar, I would say, the bill's proposal and soon before you, gentlemen MPs, I would like to come out with more bill proposals for certain more, I would say goods from part of the agricultural and food industry that we will similarly wish to bring order into their... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7837	Thank you very much. I am concluding the debate on the final draft law on special conditions for placing flour on the market. I thank the HSS Representatives' Club for their decision to withdraw its bill. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, there should now be a united debate in the final proposal for a law on the gradual exclusion from the navigation of tankers without double-plating and the final proposal for a law on the safety protection of commercial ships and ports opened for international transport. However, in this Law on the Protection of Commercial Ships and Ports opened for international transport, the Committee on Lawmaking did not finish its work but interrupted it because there are certain difficulties related to translations, expressions, standards that have been translated into the draft legislation. So together, the Legislative Committee, its professional service and the representatives of the ministry will continue today, tomorrow work on harmonising certain terms of the code, convention, regulation translated into law to obtain one, uniform legislative matter, yes. So today we would postpone the debate on this bill and only go to this Final Bill on the gradual exclusion from the navigation of tankers without double-plating. Final proposal set out the specific conditions for the placing of flour on the trig, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 58. The debate on the text of the law is over. We have amendments. Representatives, MPs have before them a table of amendments, please prepare it. Minister Cobankovic, come in. Amendment number one. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7839	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7840	Thank you, it's becoming an integral part of the law. Amendment number 2 to Councilwoman Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7841	It shall be accepted only to note that this is not the point of Article 6 but point 1 of Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7842	It's nomotechnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7843	That's totally nomotechnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7844	So it's accepted and becomes an integral part of the law unambiguously involved where it belongs. Amendment 3. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7845	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7846	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 4 of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7847	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7848	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amen to Noisy Five. HNS and PGSA representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7849	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7850	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7851	With this amendment, which we have accepted in Article 7(3) and (4). The Legislator's Committee would already be collapsing if they now accepted that those items were being deleted. But the factory is that I have said and in the debate, we do not want to accept intervention in the law that this law would do in order not to be effective. Our intensity goes in the direction of showing seriousness and to show that we really want to do something in that field. If we're passing laws where there won't be adequate measures, then I don't think we have to pass the law because we're not going to do those important market interventions that we're looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7852	Thank you very much. HNS and PGSA representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7853	We ask for a vote on these amendments because the minister was not convincing in his response to the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7854	Thank you. Please, who's in favor of this amendment? He didn't get enough votes. Amanda's 6. 7 and 8 MPs Đurđa Adlešić, Zvojir Mršić and Željko Peceka are identical because it is not accepted then it is consummated so they are not voted because they are the same. Amendment number nine. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7855	It's partially accepted. It is accepted to add the word "for violations", instead of saying "for financial violations", in order to comply with the expression in other articles.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7856	Thank you very much. Accepted without this word financially. Amendment number 10 of MP Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7857	It's unacceptable. It has already been partially accepted by the Legislative Committee in relation to this article and this amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7858	My fellow Zgribec electorate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7859	In fact, I would like to settle the fines imposed on a natural person with a level of punishment that applies to a responsible person in a legal person. So instead of a thousand kunas to five thousand to 50,000 kuna. So I'd like to ask you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7860	Thank you. Please, who's in favor of this amendment? I don't think he's got the necessary majority. Amendment number 11. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7861	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7862	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 12, MP Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7863	It's not acceptable, he's practically related to the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7864	I'm pulling 12 then. 13th because he is bound in Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7865	I thank my colleague Zgrebec. Amendment 14. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7866	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7867	Thank you very much for becoming an integral part of the law. 15th Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7868	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7869	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 16 of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7870	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7871	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. And the same amendment was accepted by the honourable representative Josipovic. Accepted in the amendment before. He's a colleague of Josipovic's. It's accepted. I am concluding the debate and voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you very much. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 127 votes, a law on special conditions for placing flour on the market in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. - Proposal for a Law on gradual exclusion from the navigation of tankers without double payment with the Final Proposal of Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 61 The Proposer is Government, it's an emergency procedure. I ask Secretary of State Branko Bačić to further explain the proposal of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7907	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposal for a law on the full exclusion of tankers without double-plating from shipping to ports in the Republic of Croatia is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt an emergency procedure. 56 The reason for the adoption of an emergency procedure is the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the regulation of the European Community. What is important in the very introduction to say is the fact that in October of this month, the previous Government adopted the Regulation on the gradual exclusion from the navigation of tankers without double payment and that this Parliament, in its first assembly, practically accepted the report to the Government of Croatia on the regulations adopted for legal power. In the meantime, until the Parliament met this Regulation as well. However, given the need for further harmonisation of our legal legislation with the European Community regulation, it was necessary for the regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be passed into the law itself. Otherwise, this law we propose is based on the International Convention on the Protection of Seas against Contaminants or Marpol, which is practically prescribed provisions that tankers must meet within certain deadlines in order to be able to sail. However, after the immersion and tankers of Eric and Prestige, the European Community shortened the deadlines set by the international maritime organisation and practically ordered all its members to comply with such regulations with the directive of the European Community. In this sense, as I previously said by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in a previous term and adopted such a regulation which was practically prescribed are those articles that treat both deadlines and types of tankers and how they are excluded from navigation. What is still important here in the introduction to say is that the exclusion of tankers from navigation implies banning their entry into Croatian ports. The second thing that is proposed with this law is the prescribed deadlines that are already running, and in the end of 2010, when even the last tanker that does not have a double payment should be excluded, or a ban should be imposed on them in Croatian ports, and they may exceptionally sail until 2015, tankers that have certain, certain, certain construction elements that are almost identical to double-plated tankers, and these are tankers that have only two days or, or a double, but in which spaces are not, no cargo is carried. It is also very important to say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia was considering extending the part-law and its jurisdiction when adopting this Act, in addition to the prohibition of entry into the Croatian ports, this Law would also apply to the prohibition of the navigation of tankers with no double shelling on both the territorial sea and the protected ecological fishing belt. However, since we have made contact with and with prominent legal experts, we have established that the regulation of such a way of banning tankers from getting into our territorial waters and in a protected ecological and fishing band would lead to certain disagreements with the International Convention on the Law of the Sea, then we have decided to propose this law in the original text as proposed to you. For this very reason, I, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, want here immediately in my opening part to meet the parliamentary representatives with the fact that the Government is going with the amendment to Article 13, paragraph 1, in a way that puts the point behind the word administrative or inspection supervision until the rest of the sentence is deleted. This is because Article 13 of this Law provides for a criminal provision for an act not prescribed in the material part of this Law, and therefore it does not need to be prescribed even in the criminal section when it is not already prescribed in the material part. And it might still be good to say that the implementation of this Act or its entry into force will almost not cause any problems in the Croatian merchant navy because our tankers, owned and owned by the Croatian Navy, have almost met all the provisions prescribed by Marpol and prescribed by this, prescribed by this law. In this respect, practically no tanker owned by the Croatian merchant navy would satisfy these requirements and would not be excluded from navigation or be allowed to sail not only to our ports but also clearly to all ports to which the European Community Directive and the International Convention on the Protection of Seas from the “Marpol” ships adopted by the International Maritime Organisation itself. Here's Mr. President so much for the introduction, and then we can do more later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7908	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Are any of the rapporteurs of the Committee on Legislative Affairs, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links, Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, European Integration? Okay, no one's going to further explain the suggestions. I'm opening a debate. Let's discuss clubs. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community MP Zivko Nenadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7909	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. As the Secretary of State, which I also welcome, said this bill, the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is harmonised with the European legislation of the European Union on the gradual exclusion from the navigation of tankers without double-plating, as well as the gradual ban on enrolment in the court register of ships of the Republic of Croatia tankers with single shelling and the issue of monitoring the navigation of these ships. Of course, all of this is done with the aim of raising the level of safety of maritime navigation and preventing pollution of the Adriatic Sea. It is good in this bill that a fine is prescribed for the offenders of this Law both for the shipowners and for the commanders of the ship because unfortunately we are witnessing that there is no order or responsibility without punishment. As it is possible to read from the debate and on the Committee, I think there is nothing controversial here and that all clubs will support this, and the HDZ Club supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7910	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7911	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. If our commitment to sustainable economic development is to develop tourism, agriculture, fishing needs clean sea, protected beautiful coasts and islands. The protection of the Adriatic not only on our part but by our neighbours the Adriatic Sea must be imperative for us. All our Adriatic counties have launched an initiative to protect the Adriatic, and all friendly regions of these same counties have also supported these programmes to protect our sea. In my opinion, it also makes it easier for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to cooperate more easily with countries on the Adriatic. We have the support of the Assembly of European Regions, the Council of Europe, the United Nations. That's why we need to welcome this bill of law and every effort and every form of prevention, so that they're looking for double-plate tankers. The Republic of Croatia should therefore take the most care of its natural resources because, for example, forgive me, for now the tankers that go to Trieste or Kopar are too close to the Istrian coast, and also those tankers that go to Krk, i.e. for our JANAF. This Law is in line with the European Union, and its point is in the quality and age of tankers who are allowed to sail the Adriatic. A double shell is a relatively new invention and consists of a boat having two surfaces and it looks like someone cooking in two pots or smaller in larger ones. Or, if one shell breaks, it won't run out of oil that's lost to the environment. Unfortunately, the international maritime organisation's resolutions have won the interest of the owners of old ships who, due to their interest in profit, are exploiting already old amortised ships that are naturally without a double bottom, and are very often with a very high degree of corrosion because it is more natural for them. They claimed that the requirements for new safe ships would increase the cost of transport so that the international community gave way and they could naturally drive until they fell apart. Namely, the ship's lobby is extremely strong in maritime circles. Given the particular meaning of the Adriatic Sea as a closed sea, especially the subject of the pollution of my opinion, which the inter-nardon community accepts and accepts, by recognising the specificities of certain areas, the strictness of the navigation security regime, i.e. smaller ships. It means that it may be necessary not to gradually turn off the tankers but quickly or perhaps in another radical version completely forbidden. We can therefore say that in this case the applicant may not be critical enough and has not critically assessed the specificities of the protection of the Adriatic as the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to these principled views about a double-plate tanker in my opinion, it is now time to prepare for the future. And it concerns alternative energy, or the transport of new energys. So it is believed that liquid methane should soon be on the oil and become energy number one. Western European countries are already buying tankers for the transport of such methane even though they have not yet provided sources. It is predicted that the northern Adriatic was the main terminal for Central and South-Eastern European countries and I suggest that we start preparations now, because otherwise we will face new environmental problems. With insight into the material, we can say that this bill does not protect the maritime well-being of the Republic of Croatia and I will give you an example of Article 3 says this. This law applies to oil tankers with a capacity of 5 thousand tonnes and more. The question immediately arises as to what is less than 5,000 tonnes of ships to answer that question that we consider crucial to our opportunities in this material, and it is precisely those types of ships that are most often carried along the coastal transport. For example. with us from the port of Bakar or as an import or export for a closer destination in the Mediterranean, for example. Albania. It might be a good idea not to include the lowest and most minimum regulation in future laws, but to really start thinking that what we are doing today is leaving our children for inheritance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7912	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSPa club, Mr. Tonchi Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7913	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Mr. Secretary of State. The HSPa Club is presupposing today's debate and adoption of this law. It is good that the government regulated this issue with its regulation last year. And that's because the tankers' hangars are extremely harmful to the environment, especially when it comes to oil or oil tankers or what's even scarier. I will mention here the fact that last year, an Albanian tanker, 45 years old, was found in the Kvarner Bay, and I am almost certain that he had no double shell and that he was out of any regulation regarding the safety of navigation. And yet that tanker was found in our territorial waters. Although he is far from our territorial waters, this also gives us the impression that in such a complex issue, we cannot solve everything solely by law but also by the appropriate state regulation that this law strictly implements. As for the legislative regulations, Croatia is here, of course, relying on the Marpol Convention, but I would also add to Mr Secretary of State that we must rely on the Barcelona Convention, we are the Mediterranean country, and that this law should be completed with the provisions of the Barcelona Convention. As known, the Barcelona Convention applies to countries east of Bosporus. It also prohibits the release of water from tankers or other vessels into the sea. Which automatically reduces the possibility of so-called. Rebalancing if ships don't have a special ballast tank in them. What is particularly important about the Adriatic is that last year's Croatian Parliament is for St. So it's 13 Antu. Six. 2003. The Croatian Parliament accepted the proposal to launch a diplomatic initiative to declare the Adriatic Sea particularly sensitive area of the Mediterranean. Mediterranean special protected aral. So that's what the Barcelona Convention predicts, and there's really no reason if we love our Adriatic if we know how much the Adriatic is threatened by tanking traffic so we don't push such a diplomatic initiative and we get our days to do something to support it from our neighbouring countries. There's been a lot of talk about tanker disasters in the world. It is too high to say what the consequences would be in Croatia itself. The Adriatic Sea is not an ocean where Exon Valdesz or Prestige sank. The Adriatic Sea is shallow and closed the sea with 1185 islands and cliffs. Which increases the possibility of an accident but also increases the damage to the oil spill from the sinking tanker. It is precisely the fact that the Adriatic Sea is shallow and closed with controversial changes in electricity that best spoke of what would have been the consequences. I have here a copy of Ruđer magazine which is dedicated to the management of otoma, where you can see if this picture is well seen there is an increased scale of the depths of the sea, but only in the part of the southern Adriatic. We actually have a large ID in more than 76%The Adriatic is actually a very shallow sea with an average depth of less than 200 meters. So in such a sea where the currents are very slow, there is no way that natural decommissioning of oil pollution can occur, there is no way that Croatia will in any way defend itself against all the consequences that such a god will not have on the Croatian sea. The sinking of only one tanker would mean an end to tourism, fishing, mariculture on the Adriatic. Croatia's annual profit from fish exports totalled $163m. It is equally excessive to mention here and profit from tourism measured in billions of dollars a year with a growth trend, and our t urism is as we know based in the first order on the preserved environment and clean sea. In any case, in the case of a tanker sinking, an oil spill would be a full decade to compensate for that damage. It could therefore be completely forgotten about tourism revenues in the meantime and fishing and maricculture revenues. Of course, in the Barcelona Convention as well as in Marpool, funds for compensation for damages are mentioned, but such funds help a little when it comes to violations of the international image. It is difficult to sell to anyone later in Japan or anywhere else who has been grown in the sea on whose surface oil swims. It is hard for any tourist from Western Europe to talk more about the clean Adriatic. And that's why in our case this convention and its implementation is of strategic importance. Of course, the problem is in all these situations how and from whom to collect the damage caused by the complicated problem of the flag country, the country of origin of the ship, the company in which the ship is registered, the captain who can again be from a special country, and that is best seen in the Prestige tanker that sank in front of Spain. It was a Liberian flag tanker owned by a Greek company, hired by a Swiss company for transportation. Now who do you charge for all this? So these are the problems that arise and it is best to be in all these situations very strict and those tankers simply shut down from our aquarium. When we talk about an aquarium then in no way only from the territorial sea, but of course from an ecological fishing zone, or from an economic belt from which the HSP has not yet given up, and we will soon repeat our proposal that Croatia raises its ecological fishing zone to the status of a full economic belt. Equally speaking about all this together, we will soon put forward in the procedure a proposal for a decision to step out of the "Adrija Society" agreement. So, speaking of the damages so far, the most sued compensation for the damage done is about $200 million when it comes to overcoming. Similar or higher amounts have been sued for oil spilling at Nahodka tankers on the coasts of Japan while Exxon Valdez is being sued for $9 and a half billion, but I repeat, it's a damage to the post-festum when it's over. So the current transport of tankers in the Adriatic will be safe and increased by the Society of Adria, there is a large number of passenger white fleets, there are numerous yachts and there is therefore a very high risk for Croatia. Nowhere in the accompanying materials of this document that we are discussing today mentions the approximately capacity and technical possibilities of existing clean-up ships in the Adriatic provided by representatives of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and I believe that the Secretary of State would have to inform the Parliament or next month that we have insight into how this law is implemented. But what I repeat, still the problem with this law, is that today, until 3.10 this year, in the middle of the Adriatic, there is still international water, we can still prevent someone from sailing into our territorial waters with their old tanker and which does not fit into this, but in the middle of the Adriatic are still international waters. If the economic belt had been declared as proposed by the HSP then today, in the middle of the Adriatic, it would have been our economic belt and those tankers could have practically taken something behind... off the Adriatic traffic. In these circumstances, we still have too much time in which such tankers can hang out with the Adriatic without anyone being able to rule them out from the Adriatic because they are in international waters. With all this in mind and in view of the provisions proposed by this Convention, and today our law includes our legislation, we believe that the only acceptable navigation regime for Croatia is one that is similar to the Gulf navigation regime and the River St. Lorenzo, Canada, on his way from the Atlantic to the Great Lakes, which is about the same distance as from Otranto to Omis. In addition, it is necessary to form a coast guard and emergency service at sea that would take full control of the navigation of every tanker and every merchant ship in our territorial sea and future economic belt. So it's not enough to have legal provisions only, it's not enough just to take over the convention and regulate the law, but it's also necessary to have a coast guard to apply it at sea. We are, however, in a situation that even before we were 6-7 years ago we allowed the privatisation of Brodospas, it is no longer a state-owned firm but private, and it is unimaginable that there is a coast guard without services of such a specialized firm as the Brodospas. We are in a position to discuss this law, and that the Parliament has never had a debate on the concept of the Coast Guard at all. We're in a situation that ships... A year after year, they're reducing the allocations to maintain the fleet. [[You don't understand.]] We are in a situation where we are before the closure of the remont shipyard Sibenik, which should also maintain the coast guard and our navy that would oversee the Adriatic and implement this law, and we are ultimately in a situation where we will have such a law without repeating, a service of emergency at sea, therefore a service that would do the same thing that makes such a Canadian service in the bay and the river of St. Lorenzo. So when a tanker like that shows up in the Adriatic, it comes to the Coast Guard, contacts him, sees what type of tanker, distances him from the economic belt if he's inadequate. Even if he's good at assigning him a cupbearer if he doesn't have a qualified pilot to sail the Adriatic. This, of course, pays him well and makes sure that he does not crash into either one of the cliffs in the Adriatic or a merchant ship. Something like flying control. Given the traffic expected by the Adriatic, and we hope that this country will have economic growth and increasing traffic towards our ports, we hold that it would be totally unserious to adopt such a good law and not have mechanisms for its implementation and this is a coast guard based on the Croatian Navy and emergency service at sea. That's why Mr. Secretary of State is full of support for this law by the HSP, asking that as soon as possible we have a discussion on the coast guard table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7914	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club Mr. Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7915	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, honored gentlemen from the Resorship Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Let me, before I say a few words on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, abuse this pay phone and greet Captain Marija Babic, God. So far, a direct dear and quality executive at the rest of the ministry. In front of us is the proposal for a law on the gradual exclusion from the navigation of tankers without double shelling and banning their entry into the relevant register of ships, not the court register as said, and I would say that this is actually about the fact that the regulation that the Government has passed has been translated into the appropriate law as already said in the opening statement. In October 2003, the Ivica Racana government immediately ruled out the possibility that the most endangered species of tankers would sail into the coastal sea of the Republic of Croatia, adopted a regulation with, adopted an appropriate regulation prohibiting the entry of these types of tankers into the coastal sea, i.e. the ports of the Republic of Croatia. After being parliamentary, after the Council of the European Parliament adopted its regulation in July and 2003. So, we've reacted very promptly. I would like to point out here that the Adriatic Sea is with, as counterpart Tadic said, a thousand 185 islands, islands and cliffs, and 5 thousand 835km of maritime goods, which actually means a coastal border and with an area that is more than 50% of the land territory of the Republic of Croatia the largest resource of our country. The Adriatic Sea is a relatively closed swimming pool and it is not unusual that in recent years there is growing concern about both professional circles and the general public for the ecological protection of the Adriatic. Europe was inspired by two serious accidents that occurred in December 1999 when the 26-year-old tanker "Erica" sank off the coast of Brittany, causing major environmental damage. The incident was already resembling the European public and competent institutions, and already in 2000 the European Commission proposed, and the European Parliament adopted a package of measures aimed at preventing the risks associated with the transport of oil to the sea, known as Eric 1 and Erica 2. Unfortunately, before the measures of Erica were fully applied, another catastrophic accident occurred when the Bahan tanker, by accident, was also 26 years old, "Prestige", which carried 77 thousand tons of heavy oil, experienced a maritime accident about 130 miles from the coast of Galicia. A new accident with a severe ecological disaster at the same time as a major economic damage, it has shown, in fact, a major threat to Europe that 90% of all its oil imports are transporting by sea. One of the measures provided for by the Erika measure package was also a gradual exclusion from the navigation of tankers without double-pollution. With this measure, Europe predicted the exclusion of tankers carrying heavy oil and not having a double shell immediately, and the deadline for all types of tankers is, as we know, 2015. We in the Republic of Croatia are fortunate, so we can bring regulations aimed at prevention and before we feel the potential serious consequences, and frankly, as a seaman, I hope that the consequences will not even be felt. As the Adriatic is a closed sea basin, it is necessary for all Adriatic countries to adopt the same regulation, and I remind you that the Republic of Italy and the Republic of Slovenia have adopted the same regulations in line with the European Union regulation, thus achieving effective protection of the entire Adriatic aquarium, including our ecological and fisheries belt. My predecessor, counterpart Tadic, spoke about the obligation to make regulations and about the ban on sailing across the open seas. I wouldn't insist at this point on making this regulation. In some ways, the interference of the open, open sea and even ecologically protected, ecologically-fishing belt is the very fact that a decision is made prohibiting the shipping of ships to ports and coastal facilities, which means platforms for the exploitation of natural resources from the submarine. This means, in particular, a gas exploitation platform and possibly oil if we are lucky to find possible artificial islands, and these same regulations bring the Adriatic countries. Then there's no danger because there's no reason for a tanker to come to the Adriatic for tourist purposes. Its goal, the ship's owner, is to board and board the ship as soon as possible, to get it to the port of destination as soon as possible, to perform an economic operation, to achieve profit and then to sail. If he is not allowed to enter the ports of Croatia, Italy, Slovenia and other Adriatic countries, then there is no reason for such a tanker to come to the Adriatic and insist in this regulation, I am not going to consider the problem of the need or not making a decision on the economic belt. However, in this regulation that is now the subject of our debate, I think that in international terms it would not be wise, politically wise to insist because the purpose that we want to achieve, and that is to protect the Adriatic that has no price, the price should be paid no matter how much it was. In this regard, I am at this point in my view that the amendment, which was subsequently sent by the promoter, is acceptable and should not be insisted on different solutions because these measures that are proposed are really sufficient at this point. This ban on navigation of certain types of tankers is only one of the usual measures for improving the safety of navigation and protecting the Adriatic from ship pollution, and effective protection is possible only in the cooperation of the coastal states to which Croatia has given cooperation and should give the initiative. Common measures in terms of the safety of navigation, ship reporting, the introduction of a navigational direction system and others, and, of course, the formation of a coast guard in the Republic of Croatia, the Adriatic should be fully out of the open sea regime, which, in terms of its protection, taking into account its natural and geographical characteristics is optimal. And in doing so, of course, do not violate the principle of free navigation, but at the same time enable high standards of environmental protection. Because today, as is known, in the Adriatic, only in the Trstian Gulf of Venice, Trieste and Kopra sail annually about 35 million liquid fuels, unlike the Croatian part where Omisalj sails, is actually delivered annually 5 million tons. But in case, God forbid, disaster is the same wherever it happened in view of the specific naturalities of the Adriatic Sea. Sustainable development of the Adriatic region should not be prevented. Reality should be accepted but, in my opinion, protection should be fought, no matter how much protection the funds require. They should simply be applied. Especially since order in shipping is necessary, because after in the process of conversion and privatisation, unfortunately, we have destroyed quality Croatian shipbuilding has appeared on the ship's space market some newly-roasted shipmen who do not have a letter of B from shipkeeping and have tried to catch in a blurry, not overrun the race for profit. In doing so, tankers were without double shell and were of course subject to their interest due to the low price on the world market. Let's just remember the accident of the Tomislavgrad ship in which some of my dear colleagues were killed, neither guilty nor indemnity, were removed from service, and the profites continued their business. Yes, colleagues and colleagues, the price of protection should be paid. What we have not inherited from our ancestors, but borrowed from our grandsons and we must give them the extent to which it is possible to preserve it and return it to them. In the absence of any longer, the SDP Representatives' Club supports the adoption of a law declaring the Government's regulation on the gradual exclusion from the navigation of tankers without double-plating into the law and will vote for the adoption of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7916	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7917	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. This law is of course a logical continuation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation since 20 October last year. and there is no doubt that both the regulation and the law make sense and adapts to the standards of the European Union and to the protection of the Adriatic Sea against pollution and pollution. But I would say that both the regulation and the law are primarily talking about an increase in awareness in the Republic of Croatia and the need for real protection of the sea as an important resource both biological and touristic. It's no secret that in fact the greatest damage in terms of pollution and pollution when it comes to the sea occurred precisely from tankers. And I certainly cannot discuss with the seamen at an even level and with those who have a problem with maritime transport, shipping, shipbuilding, etc. But they can be equal when it comes to national interest to preserve one of the most important own resources the Republic of Croatia has. It is logical in these circumstances to insist on double shelling as an engineer of not these professions, but construction professions, so the man who is technically educated, it is clear that double shelling is certainly much safer to provide one increased safety when it comes to tankers and possible pollution from oil and oil derivatives. This deadline is also logical, the deadline for different categories of ships and oils, as the law says by 2015 when no longer Croatia's ports should sail, sail, carry the Croatian flag and be registered a ship under the flag of the Republic of Croatia, because it is simply some period until it is logically assumed that all and domestic shipmen, but also those who sail in our waters, will by that time build fleets appropriate to these standards. But in all this, I see one illogicality, an illogicality that can only be called partial protection. From this pay phone, it is not necessary to prescribe a ban other than sailing and sailing to ports and from ports, or for territorial waters, or for a protected ecological fishing zone. Because such a regulation has Slovenia, such a regulation has Italy, and then ships, tankers that could potentially threaten the sea of the Republic of Croatia and pollute the coast have nothing to look for in Croatian territorial waters and Croatia's protected ecological fishing zone. I just don't think that's true. It is simply not true, because it is known that in the world trade oil and oil derivatives sometimes ships loaded with this kind of ecology and cleanliness of the sea, especially in combination with insecure ships are referred to roads that do not have a final destination, but are floating on open seas or in closed seas looking for buyers for such or such oil. Well, it happened, if I remember correctly, that certain ships loaded with even this kind of load are in certain situations and abandoned. And as minimal as that danger is, I believe there is absolutely no reason, a team before, according to the same regulations, to Slovenia and Italy, if Croatia has declared a protected organic zone on 3 October last year, I see no reason in all articles of this law to mention the registration of ships, where navigation, sailing, why it could not be specified, and also to prohibit tankers that are not in line with these standards after these years of shipping both in the territorial waters of the Republic of Croatia and in the protected ecological fishing zone, except on those internationally established routes that exist in international agreements towards Trieste and Trieste. Simply, I see no reason why the Republic of Croatia would not go to such additional security? It is not convincing for me what I heard on the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, nor what has been said here today for this pay phone, that such "wild ships" have nothing to do in the waters of the Republic of Croatia. It's enough to make one prestige happen. Enough for one to stray. Enough not to report one boarding the territorial sea or protected zone. It is enough not to be 400 or 500 thousand tonnes of oil, but to be 20, 30 thousand tons of oil and to be an area, a particular island of the Republic of Croatia for many years simply out of any possibility of exploitation in both tourism and biological, and probably in some other sense. It is precisely because we try to find a solution that will fully protect this I dare say one of the most important resources the Republic of Croatia has, and it seems to me that we are not jeopardising anyone's right, that we are not jeopardising our international position, that we are not acting contrary to any standards. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't stay in force for a while, which is practically identical content? And that the doubt that the Government of the Republic of Croatia had if I understood well when this law was written, whether to include the territorial sea and the protected fishing ecological zone, which is why that part of it remained in the cleaning of the text. So that doubt also existed in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Let us try to remove this doubt in a way that can truly achieve the maximum protection of this considerable resource of the Republic of Croatia and remove any possibility of harassing that can endanger both in the biological and tourist terms of the sea of the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, I think that the key Articles 4 and 5 are not enough, although the adjustments should be made in other articles, but I think that the key articles 4 and 5, where I should add about one text to my understanding, which I have suggested in two amendments, identical sets of words, one structure in Articles 4 and 5, in a certain place that I am not explaining now, should be added "to the territorial sea protected ecological fishing zone except for internationally established waterways for the transport of oil and oil derivatives, and sail" further continues. In this way, it seems to me that we are achieving one increased security and in this time until 2015, it seems to me that we are also achieving one security that is not only related to sailing, sailing, but that we are simply reducing the possibility of any disturbances and that we are reducing the possibility that an ecological disaster would happen to the Republic of Croatia, which would certainly have far-reaching consequences both in tourist and biological terms. Perhaps my special sensitivity to this subject has no deeper reason than to worry about national interests as many as they say are minimally endangered. But I must remind myself that, with great pride on behalf of the Republic of Croatia in 93, somewhere at the end of the year, I received a great recognition of the clean sea in Malta as the cleanest sea in the Mediterranean. Croatia is the bearer of that golden medal, the pure sea of 93, and I would like it to be the bearer of such medals for many years, there is a chance. So my appeal, let's even try to think in the government, this is certainly no ultimatum, no resisting the adoption of this law. But the very fact that the government was thinking about whether the territorial sea and protected fishing zone should be included in this law is enough to tell me that there are some reasons. Let's try to discuss it one more time, protect ourselves maximum, and then I'm sure this bill will get unanimous support in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7918	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS Mr. Representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7919	Good evening, Your Honor, Mr. President and Vice President, I see that there is a flight change, a distinguished colleague and a colleague. Here, today we have before us the final draft of a law on the gradual exclusion from the navigation of tankers without double shelling. Of course, I have no doubt in this House and this State too does not dispute the need to pass this law. He has general support, he's on the stand and a regulation that was passed last year 10. On the 3rd, 11, 10th, we, in fact, are fully adapting to the regulations that Europe is putting before us. So we're not staying at the level of the regulation, but we're going in and on and on and on and on. This Law has also been discussed on our parent committee, and now perhaps a few words. I have proposed on the committee itself several amendments that were all on the trail of what Mr. Tomcic was just saying here, Mr. Pecek supported those amendments, but Mr. Pecek and I were left alone in that text, in those changes. What are these so unacceptable and so dramatic changes that we have tried to suggest? They come down briefly, that is, what I tried to suggest there and later I see that there is also an amendment on the table given by Mr. Tomcic that comes down to a very simple addition in Articles 1, 3, 4, 5. 8th and 9th is to add the words and "floating the territorial sea and protected by the ecological and fishing belt." We here for the first time have the opportunity to finally clear and loudly confirm the decision made in this House not so long ago, several months ago, the decision on the sovereignty of the Croatian State over the ecological-fishing band of decisions that led to very, very difficult, very dramatic debates in this House against which, against which the rulings of the members of the HDZ from the DC D.C. and considered and here publicly announced, fell, some talked about betrayal, some spoke of a shameful decision, some called for a referendum, let's say the current Prime Minister Sanader called for a referendum, asked for a referendum. Therefore, the act of making a decision on the ecological and fishing zone was not sufficient for the opposition at the time, it was considered to be below the level of national interest. The government has proposed this as a measure that will continue to give Croatia a chance not to engage in a difficult conflict with the international community, I personally participated in talks with Pat Cox, prime minister, European Parliament president, I heard their messages, we transferred them here to the Parliament, all of these were rejected, and eventually, along with the label of Croatian people's traitors, parliamentary representatives of the then ruling majority passed the law. And now, beware, that such a law is insufficient, below the level that the current government, the ruling coalition, the opposition at that time, should not be applied but simply say that it exists. So in this current law, all we have to do is find out, nothing else, just to find out that we've passed that law, the current government doesn't decide on that either. Or I couldn't say it because that's not true, we'll only see it after the vote in the House, but representatives of the ruling coalition on the board have rejected the proposal. There's really something not quite clear here, at least for us at the HNS, it's not quite clear. Have we now completely changed our positions, is that minimum environmental protection no longer an interest in the ruling coalition? Isn't that minimal? Is the ruling coalition afraid to conclude that there is one law that exists? He's even afraid to establish that fact. And then I think a little bit about whether or not the Law on the Economic Belt should ever be considered at all, but this organic fishing zone law was passed if it wasn't fortunate for the government and the majority, or if it were these, there wouldn't be a finding, let alone the law. So gentlemen, please, let's do a little bit of respect for all together, let's, let's say that we have a law that has declared this House an eco-fishing, fishing belt, that we can finally benefit from it, that we can provide here not only when boarding the port, which is the proposal for this legislation but for the amendments that we give to the HNS, and here the HSS and in the sailing of the Adriatic as a whole provide the key dangers of sailing to the Adriatic Sea with the greatest dangers for the future of this country doubtlessly and further such income, and this is the income from tourism activity. If there's anything that threatens this country, we all know it, it's the end of the season. Because of the deficit. And because of the debt financing structure, because of everything that's happening in this country, everyone sitting here knows that tourism is and of course is always told to us by international financial institutions and development banks, and it's so simple not? That tourism is the point where Croatia stands or falls, and it will be that way for a long time. And now, because of all the fear, but literally the fear of the international community, we can't even say that we have the law. Let's get away from our own law. I'm begging you, let's not do this. Let's respect the laws of this country. We used to yell bravely: it's not enough what the government brought, it's treason. Let's at least now what the government has brought in, say, loudly, that government, say loudly. Let's have so much courage, not anymore. Just so much courage and protect that Adriatic of ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7920	Thank you very much, Mr. Chacic. Secretary of State Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7921	So here I would briefly get involved in the debate that Mr. Honorable Representative Cacic gave, in the section relating to, the need to integrate or place an economic belt or a protected ecological and fishing zone in this Act. First of all, I have to say that not only is the law not included in the protected ecological-fishing belt but the territorial sea is not included. And the other thing that implies to the government that the government doesn't want to, but by its first law that treats this issue somewhat is to confirm that it stands at the point of view that an ecological-fishing belt should be defended, it doesn't stand. And I'll say about it from the arguments, but the first argument you have here on the benches today is the Law on the Security Protection of Commercial Ships and Ports opened for international traffic which is not currently under discussion but in Article 52 of that Law we confirm the fact that it exists in Croatia and that the Croatian Parliament has passed an ecological and fishing belt and that the provisions of this law are sought and applied to them both in this law and in this law. Therefore, we are not running away from the facts nor are we at the end of the idea that we are not confirming the fact that I, as the president of the inter-resor group of governments these days, are working intensively on making a decision on effective control of the fishing-environment belt, which, as Mr Tadic said, I hope that this high house will be very quickly aware of this, and that you will see that the government has a very good intention from October 3rd to point out with which all maritime forces, with people, with equipment, ships and flyers, are intending to control the entire fishing-environmental, ecological-fishing belt. Thus, the absolute government did not want to show by at least this law that it does not care and respects the fact that a protected ecological and fishing zone has been declared. The other thing is that by adopting and proposing this Law we really wanted what Mr. Tomcic said to incorporate and implement in this Act complete and territorial waters or territorial seas and protected ecological and fishing belts. However, for three days we have been consulting the complete basic international Conventions on the Law of the Sea and our Maritime Code, we have found that in territorial waters, in the territorial sea, in an economic belt which has not yet been declared in our possession, but has been declared a protected ecological and fishing zone, that we did not want to restrict the most important right at sea, which is the right of a safe passage and for the reason that we would not come with this Law into a certain confrontation with the International Maritime Organisation, nor did we want to restrict with the European Community, and by estimating all that I will later express, what this Law implies we have just passed this bill. We do not see in the Government that this would be an argument that in the fact that no tanker who does not meet the criteria of this Law has reason to sail into the Adriatic so that even if he does not sail to the Adriatic, the right sea could not come, I repeat, with a possible conflict with the International Convention on Law. I must say that, that this is what you have proposed, Mr. Cacic and Mr. Tomcic, has brought the Republic of Spain and France, so Spain and France, and has certainly had problems with the International Maritime Organisation and the European Community itself. By proposing a law like this, we are, in the first place, prohibiting shipping to ports. The same law was passed by the Republic of Italy and the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, no tanker arriving in the Adriatic can sail into any port. That's the first thing. The second thing, the entire Adriatic is divided into 4 sectors and every tanker, each ship that sails to the Adriatic is obliged to appear in each sector in a single coastal station, so Brindizija, Bar, Rijeka and Ancona, and each of these coastal stations follows its way and it must not be kept in, either in economic belt or in territorial waters, but is already obliged to that speed of navigation that goes to the port of destination. And he is obliged to inform the port captain who, in that case, warns him if he, if he has stopped or done certain tasks in the Adriatic, is not going towards the port of the destination he announced, but at the time of entering the first sector. Furthermore, in the Adriatic, there are separate navigation schemes according to which a single tanker must rule and sail and it must not be allowed to sail, not to sail, and in this way there is control of its use of the Adriatic or Adriatic. What we should also say is that first of all, we have respected this right of so-called safe passage that every ship has when entering the sea, therefore to the Adriatic, and for this reason we did not go with, with a proposal to include in the law a protected ecological and fishing belt or to engage the territorial sea because we hold that there is no reason and can neither sail to the Adriatic and then stop in the Adriatic when it cannot enter any ports. So he can't sail on the Adriatic, he can sail, but he can't float for that reason I repeat it wasn't necessary for that part to be implemented in the Decision. Here's the thing about this part that was, which was related to, the reason why the government didn't implement the Fisheries and Ecological Belt Decision, I think it would be enough, and it seems to me, I also have to say that even the previous Government when it made up this regulation must have been in front of the same dilemma. And when the decision was made, it was only a month and 17 days after the parliament adopted, 17 days so, 17 days after the Parliament adopted the Decision extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea. They were probably even fresher then, I'd say the memories of, to the debate about, about the adoption of a protected eco-fishing belt, and already then the government had not done so before for the very reasons I've stated. I personally think that at that time should probably have used that possibility to adopt, in addition to the protected ecological fishing zone, those other attributes that are given in the maritime code to the economic belt and then there would be...a economic belt. But I repeat the evidence that the Government and its concerns and knowledge and respects the fact that there is a protected ecological fishing zone confirms Article 52. The law on the protection of commercial ships and ports open to international transport, where the need to therefore be in part of the fishing ecological zone is explicitly written, is being monitored whether the laws of the Republic of Croatia are being implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7922	Thank you very much. We have an individual discussion. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7923	Mr. President, the Parliament colleague ei colleagues. Most of the debate was actually brought out on behalf of the clubs by Mr. Tomcic and Mr. Cachin about what I wanted to be the skeleton of my exorcism. That's why I won't repeat myself, but I'll try to add some new ones to their arguments. And a little comment on what Mr. Secretary of State just said. You say we would have problems with the international maritime organisation and with the European Community. My basic question is whether our diplomacy scouted before the release of this bill would give us any problems. Because watch out for the regulation we have the regulation passed by the last government, a certain degree of protection exists and according to the regulation. As long as we're going to the law, that's why we're making an order. And don't try to expand protection if that's possible. You say Mr. Secretary of State, the fancy and Spanish have also protected their territorial seas and have had certain problems. What happened to them because they fell under the dissidents of the international community of other countries because they protected their emotions. Well, look, the Adriatic Sea is a closed sea. We're a far more unfavourable position. But France and Spain, and we have more reason to justify that protection to put an higher degree if possible. I'm curious if the government took advantage of all the diplomatic possibilities before sending the law to protect and secure them. You know, it seems to me that the government has one double criterion for the ecological fishing zone, given its internal and external use. When it comes to internal use, Mr. Cacic said, then the ruling party was currently unhappy when the law was passed. Insufficient protection for our Adriatic. Insufficiently stressing our country's right to protect that area. And that's the attitude to the inside. The relationship to the outside is fear. So we're going to review what we have, so we don't have to use it, and this is about one important question. A truly important issue, which is not at all politically related to politics, is the protection of the Adriatic. If a single tanker's hall happens there, we can forget about tourism. Not one year ten years. Especially since in the territorial sea and also in the protected fishing zone, there are such as Mr. Secretary of State says there are navigation schemes or some waterways for tankers. That I can't touch the panners go where they got. And they, even if we were to extend this protection to the territorial sea and to the ecological fishing belt so we wouldn't ban the passage of those waterways. Therefore, the right of safe passage would remain preserved. There's nothing we could do about him. Nor can we endanger him, of course. Logic is enough to protect ports and platforms so nothing will happen. She's incomprehensible to me. Because that would be an opportunity like this, as if someone were to say, look, we passed the criminal code in which we described it was a break-in into someone else's apartment criminal offense, and we prescribed a sanction and now we don't have to lock the front door. Because thieves like that, what will come now when he knows he can't because we wrote it in law. That's not enough, this protection is enough. With all the arguments Mr. Tomcic made, let's assume that some Slovenian port in some Italian port wants to go illegally to a tanker and maybe even to one of our own, illegally knowing that it's illegal. But he wants to break that law, because he's gonna make some extra profit. In that case, we need to protect the territorial sea and the ecological fishing zone, you know why, so we can stop it right now. As soon as he enters the Adriatic as he enters that sea which is of our best interest. And don't wait for him to come near the port near the coast and say hop look you can't there just law forbids you to find yourself. So I think that these arguments that we've heard here, in the sense that this should still be expanded, that they're strong enough for the government to think we have a regulation let's not rush. Think about it one more time. Either respect this amendment or if you're not sure I can understand that you're not sure if you'd have any problems with the international community. Check one more time through diplomacy. Nothing's gonna happen that bad. Let's take a month, two, three as long as it takes to check the encouragement of protecting the Adriatic, it's a closed sea. It's the sea that means life to this country. And one more thing about criminal provisions for a shipowner is 500 thousand kuna. That seems funny to me a little figure. That's about $70 a pound. That's about two and a half thousand barrels of oil. Well, I think you're careful. It's a prescribed restraining order, so who's going to be afraid of those punishments at all? That seems under-thinking to me under-thinking. Think again about the level of punishment prevented, you've thought one more time about these amendments. Two clubs, consider that together, not only will the government bear responsibility, so responsibility for this takes over the entire Parliament. If you expand that protection to the entire Adriatic, I'm sure you'll get unanimity support here. One-hearted support. We share that responsibility together, but we protect the sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7924	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7925	Good evening, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me join in and make my contribution to this debate because I must admit that the law that is before us and that I welcome it positively. Yet, to some extent, it raises doubt that we have absolutely considered everything that can be regulated with it. First, the fact that we limit ourselves to tankers and only talk about sailing and sailing tankers to ports and from ports. I think as previous participants in this debate have already found, simply not enough insurance for the Adriatic, or for our coast. So I think we should certainly extend the protection authority and the part relating to territorial waters, and the part relating to the eco-fishing belt, especially when we know that all this is now being decided is something that will only be realized in the period until 2015. So we're talking about a gradual anticiption of this law, or the introduction of a double-pane tanker. We need to be aware of the fact that today we often have oil dealers buying oil in various markets and often that oil in tankers stands at sea or stands in tankers for a year and a half and a half years, floating and waiting for the best or most favourable buyer. I don't know with what certainty we can claim that the Adriatic will not be exposed to such a position and that no tanker of such nature will ever sail right into ours, is a closed sea and also here in this sea waiting for his most favourable customer. At that very moment, such a tanker should neither sail or sail from any port, but by doing so, it will certainly endanger the safety and protection of our coastal belts within our ecological belt or within international waters. And as previous participants have already established, we know how vital it is for our economy, how vital it is for Croatia, how important it is for our future development, how important it is for the overall sustainable development of the Adriatic. Therefore, by adopting and extending this protection competence also on waterways, and not only on ports and sailing and sailing, I think it would be an important contribution to the protection of this area, i.e. for the protection of the Adriatic. As Mr. Secretary of State mentioned, the same thing happened or a very similar thing happened in France that declared that protection in its ecological zone and in Spain, which also declared it in its fishing zone. Therefore, it is obviously not so contrary to all European conventions if two members of the European Union can make such a decision. The fact that our neighbours have not made such a decision so far and that it is identical to this proposal in terms of sailing and sailing, it can only give us the opportunity to in some way encourage us diplomatically through them to make the same decision in their own legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7926	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, a 5-minute debate was held by a respected representative, Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7927	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am particularly pleased that Mr. Bacic is the secretary of state and I said that personal opinion is not as a secretary of state, but it is personal opinion that this should have already been introduced. Of course, as an expert in this area, it confirms that there are many reasons for all of us to look together for it. I really should've done it already. You should've done it already. Of course what it is now, I have to correct my party colleague in one small detail, this argument is undeniable about floating tankers, especially in open market times. You know, there's a free-market oil supply game that has a lot of advantages, but it's got some little flaws. When you don't have a monopolist in the oil supply of a country, then exactly floating tankers often appear and oil extraction on the high seas often occurs, and these tankers are usually the oldest, most ecologically threatened, most dangerous because there is the cheapest oil. So that danger of course is very real and she's even there, she's present. She won't be her already exists. And we know, of course, that we wouldn't hide much of the real truth in that, that I'm not also citing potential companies that are involved in this, which we can also think of as one of the possible reasons why we don't exactly want to include this in this text of the law, but hopefully we still do, we still do. Correction, Slovenia cannot and will never be able to do so because it has no opportunity to declare an ecological fishing zone or an economic belt. She just doesn't have a legal basis for it. Of course there is a legal basis for Italy, they can do it. I would remind you, and today you have it noted and in the press very well, that 11.3. Slovenia has sent a proposal to the international community from Portorož to make its unilateral decision on the ecological fishing band withdrawal, and that Slovenia, Italy and Croatia declare a common ecological fishing band. Supporting the Slovenian proposal, the Italians immediately reiterated their opposition to the choice made by Croatia and requested the correct solution to the problem of fishing as a condition, a necessary condition for Croatia's accession to the European Union. So a classic well-known story. We give up our rights, endanger the sea and make our neighbors happy. There's nothing new about that, of course. Now, as far as France and Spain are concerned, it is true that Mr. Bacic has very well warned about this, it has caused major serious debates, disputes, but for one simple reason that has also caused significant financial consequences for the carriers. In this case, if it is indeed as the Government claims that there is no danger or possibility of anyone entering our sea, then there is no financial damage because no one will even come into the sea. If that's the case. So the argument is off, there won't be any protests. No one will be financially damaged. And if not, but indeed someone will come into our sea, then we have nothing to think about, then we need to build on the protection of the territorial belt, the territorial sea and the ecological fishing belt. So no matter how we turn things around, they're completely clear. If we're responsible people, we have to do it and there's this old one, "If someone's offering you an apple so you don't need it, take it and put it in your pocket, you'll eat it later." In other words, we protect the sea just in case, and then we think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7928	Thank you, Mr. Chacic. Mr. Bacic, State Secretary please, more.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7929	Here I would just look back at a few things that were said in this debate and brought out. First of all, the one presented by the distinguished representative Mr. Tonci Tadic and I must say that what he said in his presentation, the Croatian government is doing right now. In the first row, and something has already been done, the part relating to the Barcelona Convention has already been laid down by the Maritime Code by the regulations on the handling of dangerous substances prescribed by both navigation and cargo through the Adriatic. As a member of the International Maritime Organisation in London last month, we were co-signatures of the International Convention on the Management of Balasic Waters and once we have drawn up an appropriate national regulation that is in line with this Convention, the Croatian Assembly will be proposed to ratify and that act which will practically be regulated and the part relating to the management of balasic waters so that, precisely on the proposal of the Republic of Croatia, the International Maritime Organisation in support of a number of parties to the International Maritime Organisation accepted a series of provisions that the Adriatic is assessing the zone with an extremely sensitive zone. Independently, therefore, on the procedure of signing the Convention on the Management of Balas Waters, we have also launched a procedure with the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Italy at the International Maritime Organisation to establish a sensitive area. We hope that this proposal, which is headed towards the IMO, will be at the International Maritime Organisation and adopted by the next year, which will allow us to further strengthen the new measures that can be introduced into the Adriatic. But regardless, we hold that the right of safe passage is what we cannot prescribe by national law as a party that is a member of the International Maritime Organisation and thus do not come into conflict with the International Maritime Organisation and it is questionable in the end how it will end up being defined, the defined decision they made before the country mentioned. As for the alleged fact that Slovenia did not restrict and pass the Law relating to tankers because there is no economic belt nor a protected ecologically... Slovenia has territorial waters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in that part, if she wanted to, she could solve the ban issue in the territorial sea, but I repeat, she didn't do it either. So all that was done in the first row was by law, the intention was to protect the Adriatic and all the actions that are currently taking place in the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development in terms of the protection of the Adriatic are comprehensive. I'd like to mention a few things we're doing and we're going to go before the government and the Parliament. At this very moment, in order to protect the Adriatic, together with the State Geodetic Administration and with the resources that the Kingdom of Norway is subsidizing, it is moving towards the aerophotogeometric recording of the complete, complete maritime goods and we plan to then move towards the creation of a catastra of maritime goods. Which would also contribute to further protection of maritime goods in the Republic of Croatia and, as a pilot, the project has already been established by Zadar County and we think that Zadar County would point to a comprehensive approach to the protection of maritime goods on this pilot project through the creation of a marine goods catastra. We also said that, together with the Republic of Italy and Slovenia, a separate navigation system is being established which will also contribute significantly to the safety of Adriatic navigation. What may be most important of all, what needs to be said, is the fact that in the process of establishing a legal person or coordination or an agency or any other body that will effectively implement a decision on the protection, protected ecologically... The belt, along with the entire equipment of the Croatian Navy, will be included in the monitoring of complete sailing and maritime transport to the Adriatic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At this point the system... in the entire Adriatic area, it does not work, but in the first phase of the coordination on the protection of the Adriatic when a decision on the protected, that is, to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea is taken, we will have a day-long picture of all events on the Adriatic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, any excesses that would be in the sense of playing the existing law, namely, do not stand because they will be able to intervene very quickly through the Coast Guard on those ships that do not comply with such a law, and I repeat, they are obliged to report to the VT system when they arrive in the first Adriatic sector. Therefore, a series of measures currently taking place at the level of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development suggest that such a law, which is proposed and all the measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at this time, can be effectively implemented to protect Croatian national interests in the Adriatic area which is clearly under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7930	Thank you very much. The debate will continue with the government's demonstration of amendments to respected MPs Tomcic and Cacic. I'm closing the debate, and for today, we'll be back tomorrow at 10 o'clock. What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Oh, yeah. Tomorrow we will go from the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax to both the Government and the SDP. We will do the same with a united debate and two laws supplementing the Income Tax Act from SDP and HNS, PGS and LIBRE clubs. The same united debate should go. Also, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, the club of representatives of the CNS, PGS and LIBRE. So, these five laws and we're gonna end tomorrow. Thank you very much. Final draft law on gradual exclusion from the navigation of tankers without double-plating, emergency procedure proposal PZE No 61. The debate on the text of the law was concluded in accordance with the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HSS I am voting on the next conclusion. It postpones voting on the proposal for a law on the gradual exclusion from the navigation of tankers without double-plating. By the end of the consultation on the possible consequences and the legal aspect of the extension of the catch ban, both in the territorial sea and the protected fishing ecological belt outside internationally established water corridors, the final draft of the law. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. I'm sorry. We have to vote against this conclusion. Who's against this conclusion? Thank you. Restraint? I find that the conclusion voted 44 against 78 abstentions, which means that the conclusion did not receive the required number of votes. It's not adopted. We're going to vote on the amendments. We also have a special table in front of us. Please, State Secretary of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development of Branko Bačić to show about the amendments. Amendment number one. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7932	Your Honor, Mr. President, it's on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7933	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amanda number two. Representative Radir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7934	Unacceptable. I'm Mr. President if I can say something about it briefly then when I'm talking about it on my own. And now I would add that, namely, the Government cannot accept this amendment for the reason that this law prohibits the entry of tankers without double-plating into ports open to international public transport. While the practical acceptance of such an amendment by Mr. Cacic would also be prohibited by sailing tankers without double shelling in the territorial sea and protected coastal belt. That's when I said and now I'm going to repeat a few arguments, that is, things that say that such an amendment cannot be accepted. In the first row of the International Convention on the Law of the Sea, Article 58 provides for the right to the safe passage of the sea, and in this way we have practically limited such a provision which is strictly prescribed by the International Convention on the Law of the Sea. On the other hand, by prescribing such a law prohibiting the entry of tankers without double shell into Croatian ports, the Republic of Italy and the Republic of Slovenia have equally regulated it. In this way, the tankers have virtually no reason to sail to the Adriatic because they cannot agree to any port. The third thing is that I also said, which is spoken on the argument that ships can come to the Adriatic and then float or wander to the Adriatic is also not standing, because our law has practically prescribed a mandatory reporting system, and that way when he comes to the Adriatic, he must practically report to the Adriatic and can't float in the Adriatic and therefore we don't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7935	Correction of the incorrect alleged representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7936	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's a coincidence we have a Convention on the Law of the Sea in front of us. So what Mr. Bacic is saying is about Article 58 and the safe passage. However, in Article 56 of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Convention on the Law of the Sea is said to have the right to protect and preserve the marine environment. I don't know any stronger rights than protecting the conservation of the marine environment, which is the right to prevent harmful ships, so ships with dangerous cargo and those ships that don't have a double bottom of their shipping into our ecological fishing zone. I would be happier if it were a full economic belt, but in these circumstances, we hold the secretary of state that Croatia has the full right to prevent such ships from passing through its ecological fishing zone and this is based on Article 56. The Convention on the Law of the Sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7937	Thank you very much. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7938	Thank you very much. Of course, that was justified in Article 56, which is why I gave that amendment. Both France and Spain have just installed the text I have proposed... /The speaker has been turned off and re-enabled./... in Article 56, therefore the amendment is proposed. Both France and Spain have installed, and they also have no economic belt but they have one ecological, and the other fishing, they have installed in their laws the same text, and therefore this country, which, you know, is a very dramatic process with a lot of clashes in the Parliament, has, however, succeeded at the time of that coalition majority to fight, the opposition of today's majority to the legal text guaranteeing the ecological and fishing belt, so if anything else we have to have involved in and into this law. Of course it's not... /The speaker turned off and turned it back on./... It's on. Someone turned it off. I apologize, but I'm not shutting it down. If someone turns it off, of course, I'll continue with the other amendments with an explanation. Thank you very much. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7939	Thank you very much. Please, who's in favor of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 3 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7940	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7941	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number four of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7942	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7943	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 5 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7944	It's accepted with the correction. Instead of saying, "the flag they're winding" the text should read "the flag they're winding."
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7945	It's lexis, okay. It becomes an integral part of the law with this terminological correction. Six MPs, Radiir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7946	He refuses under the same reason. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7947	Thank you very much. Let me continue with the argument. Of course, the argument put forward that both Italy and Slovenia do not have it in their legal texts simply does not represent anything because Italy and Slovenia have not passed the organic fishing band law, so they could not have such a text in their law. As far as we're concerned, you know it's all the same to us whether there's an incident that's going to ruin our tourist season at 15 meters in front of the port or at the port. That doesn't need to be specifically argued. Of course, the fact that the Slovenians have already made an official request to abolish the law, to withdraw the legal text. According to all, the government has already entered the negotiations to amend and withdraw Croatia from what we have barely voted on, and this same government that was firm then while the opposition insisted that an even more rigorous regulation be passed, not much for 5% to 6% of the rigorous declaration of the economic belt, makes all of us fear and represents it all together, given that both public and serious warnings have been made and therefore we must insist that this formulation, which is very clear here, is also said: "and sailing to the territorial sea and protected ecological fishing belt" to be included in the legal text." Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7948	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. If you want a count in order, I should assess it by my Rules of Procedure, but if you're asked to count it, that's right and right. So we'll do it again. Who's for this amendment number six? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Restraint? I find that 51 votes for the amendment, 77 against and therefore did not get the required majority. Amendment number 7 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7949	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7950	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 8 of the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7951	Overruled.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7952	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7953	Excuse me. The interpretation is the same as before, provided that, with the adoption of this Regulation, we have practically brought the regulation into line with the regulation and the European Union Directive, and thus it is in conformity and therefore cannot be accepted by one amendment of the Association of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7954	Here you go, buddy Tomci.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7955	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm not sure how much we all know together what this law is about. There's two things here, one positive and one negative. It is positive that by 2015 this law abolishes the possibility of a single-plate tanker sailing and by 2015 the Adriatic should be protected by the navigation of double-plate tankers. The negative thing is that this law kind of destroys this good thing because it only speaks in, about sailing and sailing from seaports. No mention of the territorial sea, no mention of the protected ecological fishing belt. There is no doubt that the full protection of the Adriatic has just been made possible by the conclusion we unfortunately voted negatively on. Since I really don't see any reason for Croatia to treat itself so masochistically when it comes to protecting the Adriatic Sea, I insist on voting on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7956	Thank you very much. Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Would you like a count, colleague Tomcic? Then we'll do it one more time, though, okay. Who's in favour of this amendment? Count it. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that 51 MPs voted in favour of the amendment, against 77, therefore did not get the required majority. Amendment number 9 of Representative Radiir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7957	The amendment shall be rejected in the same way as the reasons set out in Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7958	Hey, pal, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7959	Thank you very much. I would only warn regarding the claim made here that there must be a report of entry of ships and that there is control and inability in this sense and that it can prevent the survival of tankers with a single bottom as obsolete and dangerous today and tomorrow in the Adriatic Sea. This second claim does not state that it makes staying impossible. They log in, but they can stay in the sea, on the one hand. On the other hand, they float if they need months in the Mediterranean because it's oil sold on the free market and come at the invitation. On the third hand, it is known that part of that oil is the subject of what he was talking about here in another context, Minister Schuker, and the subject of black and gray economy. So, oil smuggling, and in that case, the question of how much the application comes, regardless of what part and to what extent this danger exists, there is no reason for us to be exposed to this danger, given that this government, this government, costs us nothing, and all of us get to apply our own laws that we have passed, which is the Law on the Ecological Fishing Belt.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7960	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that 53 voted in favour of the amendment against 77, so he did not get the required majority. Amendment number 10. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7961	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7962	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 11. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7963	Overruled. The same explanation as under point 8, i.e. under the 8th amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7964	Comrade Tomcic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7965	Thank you very much. I know what the results of the vote will be, but I would like to appeal once again that we do not accept this law because, in fact, the refusal of all these amendments puts Croatia in a very bad position when it comes to the ecological protection of the Adriatic Sea. I remember a very good debate about the declaration of a protected ecological fishing belt. I remember very well insisting on the opposition at the time, and today's authorities are to declare an exclusive economic belt. I don't know where we're from now on such a turning point that we don't even need what guarantees us a protected ecological, ecological belt. I insist on voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7966	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the amendment has been voted 52 against 77 and is therefore not accepted. Amendment number 12 of Representative Radiir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7967	The amendment is rejected the same way I said under the second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7968	Hey, pal, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7969	... as the gentleman has already pointed out... [[Specially enabled.]] I'm sorry, but someone's always shutting down. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] So, as Mr Tomcic pointed out, it is just amazing that the representatives of the same party and the same parties, here I think of both HSLS and DC who so generously advocated the adoption of the Law on the Economic Belt and considered, so to speak, the issuing of the country, these expressions were also used, the fact that only, under quotes, the Environmental Fishing Belt Act is now refusing to even mention the Ecological Fishing Belt Act in the first law where we can really benefit from what we have adopted. Who can explain what this is about, I really don't know, but it seems to me personally that it is only and exclusively that it went against the interests of the country and directly to the destruction of anything the government then brought, that even now, even if the cost of ruining the tourist season and destroying the Adriatic is going to preserve the government and giving in to international factors. As far as we're concerned, here, I'll proceed later. I hope that the next amendment will be answered by a representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7970	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Member States shall ensure that, in accordance with Article 229(5) or (6) of the Amending Agreement, the President, in accordance with Article 229 of the Amending Agreement, is informed that the amendment has been rejected immediately. I estimate and see that it's been declared less than half, so if it's okay with you, then I wouldn't go to the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. ... All right, if you accept, if you're looking for a count, fine. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Okay. Who's against this amendment? Restraint? Thank you very much. I say it was 49 against 76. Once again, I may have incorrectly read this article of the amendment, Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the vote shall be held by raising the hands for, against, abstention, and, exceptionally, if, when voting on the amendment for its adoption, less than half of the representatives present can be declared immediately by the chairman that the amendment has been rejected. Of course, if someone objectes, assess the president, then we're going to count. Please, then, I'll just go along with it and get on with it. Amendment number 13. Representative Radiir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7971	So it's rejected under the same explanation. In fact, I would only add one more thing, which is that this law is almost entirely based on the regulation that the previous government has made, just 17 days after the decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea was adopted here in the Parliament. In this way, the Government, which had also adopted the regulation, also prescribed that tankers should not enter ports opened for international public transport, and did not then prescribe, so only 17 days after the decision to prohibit tankers from sailing the territorial sea and protected coastal belt. In this way and then it was thought in the same way that it would not come clearly into conflict with the international convention, on the one hand. On the other hand, and the directive prescribed by the European Union after a well-known package of measures in, during the sinking of the Prestige tankers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7972	Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7973	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to stress that no way is coming into conflict with the international commission, which we have already proven here. So this is the wrong quote. And as for whether the government passed at the moment of the battle being fought here in the House with all that was said or not, there is no argument. I remind you that the large number of HDZ MPs sitting in this House today were then firmly against the insufficient protection of the Adriatic. They also asked for an economic belt. I hope in a vote that will now follow that some will recall their views, so they will vote if anything else is at least for this "mild protection". Of course, one important thing here to underline is the fact that precisely the oldest, most expendable, most dangerous and for our tourism as a key economic branch today and in the next decade, the tankers are just the ones with a single... So, once again, let's protect the Adriatic, let's not hide behind the port flossula, because onion protection is absolutely nothing. I call on all those who fought until yesterday for protection and ecology, who fought for the sovereignty of this country and in this area that is completely undeniable, to remember little of their views and to vote for Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7974	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. I find that there have been fewer than half of the representatives present for this amendment, and I find that it was then rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7975	I'm asking the vote, because I hope it's still not well-assembled on your part, I mean counting the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7976	Okay. Who's in favour of this amendment? Did you count it? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that the amendment was voted 52 against 75. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 14. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7977	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7978	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 15 of Radio Cacic's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7979	He refuses, I've already talked about it. And I will only mention once again, that, based on the implementation of this law, based on a navigation-oriented system, based on the mandatory reporting system of ships arriving in the Adriatic, the Adriatic is in this way fully protected when it comes to the problem of tankers without double shelling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7980	Hey, pal, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7981	Thank you very much. Unlike the current Prime Minister Sanader, I will not call for a referendum on what it was about when we voted on the economic belt and the ecological zone, I will not talk about a shameful procedure and betrayal, I will just remind myself that we are not even going into conflict with anyone here, because the fact that the territorial sea and the ecological fishing belt are being included in this law, not according to exactly the presentation that we had from the government, does not make any additional financial damage to the carriers. Because neither Italy nor Slovenia allow entry into their ports, and this happened with the regulations adopted by France and Spain, especially France when they additionally brought significant costs by bypassing their territorial sea and ecological fishing belt. Therefore, we do not harm anyone. We've already passed the law. The benefits are evident. The dangers are evident. and, of course, we have a clear threat to all of this together by Slovenians and Italians, who are asking us to withdraw the laws already passed, and it seems by all accounts that the government is willing to accept it. I also underline the power additionally obtained by the fishing zone, fishing zone, because when it comes to living in legal texts, what I propose then we have one firm protection and fishing belt, because they are bound, the ecological fishing belt is in the same law treated in the same way. Thank you very much, compared to Italy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7982	Who's in favour of this amendment? I'm still realizing he didn't get the necessary majority. There's no objection. No amendment accepted. Amendment number 16. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7983	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7984	It becomes an integral part of the law. Number 17. Government. He's here in due time, becoming an integral part of the law. 18. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7985	Partly accepted, the proposal to delete the words "physical person" in paragraph 2 is rejected. In accordance with the Law on crafts, the craftsman is a natural person, and thus a natural person may be a ship's ship's ship's ship's ship's ship's ship's ship's ship, in which case the proposer considers it to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7986	It's consensual.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7987	Thank you very much. So the amendment was partially accepted and withdrawn in this section to erase the words "physical person". 19. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7988	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7989	It's part of the law, part of the law. Thank you very much. I'm giving the vote final. What? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7990	Mr. President, despite the appeal to the representatives of some to recall, the power of memory is obviously very weak. I'm asking you nicely on behalf of the HSP Club to take a 10 minute break before the law is declared so that we can consult on the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7991	Thank you very much. Break to 12 and 46. My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. I beg on behalf of the SDP Club, the HSP pardon, first the HSP Club. Here's my colleague, Rosic. Who? Here you go, pal Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7993	We asked for a break in the vote on this Law on the implementation of double-plating tankers from our waters, and because during the debate on amendments systematically by the Government and the ruling majority, all amendments that require that Croatia extend its jurisdiction to exclude tankers without double-plating and from protected eco-fishing zones. It is about the fact that this Law, we all know it well, wants to implement the “Marpol” Convention on the pollution of the sea and the Barcelona Convention, and it consistently removes tankers without double shell from that part of the sea over which the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia extends. When the economic belt was discussed in 2001 on the proposal of the Croatian party of law, no one expressed any reserve in favour of its expansion. Moreover, together we have formed a conclusion committee that has found that this will be done as soon as possible and has been at our heart and safeguarding the interests of our fishermen and protecting the Adriatic from oil pollution through the form of an economic belt. There was no vote. After that, as is known in 2003, the Government proposed its Proposal for a Law on a Protected Eco-fish Area, which was adopted on 3 October in this Higher House. We were then as we now felt it was better, thank you, Mr. President, and we now felt that it was better to have a regime of the economic belt that was very clearly established in the Convention on the Law of the Sea, and an unprotected ecological fishing zone that calls for some parts and tries to bring them into line. Knowing that we're going to come up with a situation where we're going to have to use the full power of the economic belt, and that's especially the situation of disengaging tankers from it, so tankers that don't have a double bottom. It is true that Article 58. The Convention speaks of a safe passage into the economic belt, but it is also true that Article 56. The Convention refers to the law of the State which declares the economic zone, or in this case a protected eco-fish zone if it can be considered to protect its environment in that area. To protect the environment of the sea. Also, if we are already calling for a safe passage in Article 21. The Convention on the Law of the Sea relating to, the territorial sea is also made clear that every environmental disturbance, any pollution of the environment, falls short of the right to safe passage. It is too high to speak at all about how complex sailing is in the Adriatic, given the fact that in the middle of the Adriatic is the island of Palagreža within which there are in our territorial sea two directions of separate transport, separate sea navigation, it is too much to mention how dense the traffic is to the Adriatic, but what is important to note is that according to international law, if a tanker is doing collisions or any kind of hararium and even the diversions of the open sea that we can intervene in it according to international law only when it sinks. And if any malice occurs in an exclusive economic belt or a protected eco-fish zone if we can consider it an economic belt then we can intervene as soon as it enters that zone or the economic zone. I repeat, we've advocated a full economic belt, but since we already have an ecological-fishing zone, then we want its consistent implementation to the last point and point. And it gives us the opportunity to extend our jurisdiction and exclude from our part of the Adriatic tankers who do not meet the Marpol Convention or which do not fit the Barcelona Convention. And I repeat from that notorious fact that if the tanker sinks in the open sea we can't do anything. If it sinks into a protected ecological fishing zone, then we can do anything. And that's why it was incomprehensible for us that the ruling majority and the government so generously rejected all amendments from the opposition that went to extend jurisdiction to a protected ecological and fishing zone. But what we are particularly concerned about is that this is clearly a trend. The government appears to be withdrawing, stepping down to the pressure of Italy and Slovenia, which the daily Dnevnik wrote about yesterday, with a large title for Croatia to give up the application of the eco-fishing belt. We don't know why it's done. We want a clear statement from the Croatian government on this. We are aware that there are pressures from Italy and Slovenia on Croatia but what is completely unclear is why tripartite talks are being held if Slovenia will become a member of the European Union from 1 May, why it is not about bilateral talks between Croatia and the European Union, but again Croatia is going down in a humiliating position and agrees not to press from Italy and Slovenia. So, today's withdrawal from the opposition amendment relating to the ecological and fishing zone, or the rights arising from the economic belt, is not an accident if this whole context is taken into account. That is why we believe that Croatia does not need to give in to anyone. Croatia may refer to Articles 279 and 287 of the Convention on the Law of the Sea, which discusses all disputes through peaceful arbitration at the International Court of Sea Law in Hamburg. And nothing more than that. We have our sovereign right to declare an economic belt or its element in the form of an ecological and fishing zone. And that is why, in this situation, we find it extremely unacceptable to vote on this Act until these famous tripartite talks, which are held or should be held in April in Pula, and in particular we find it unacceptable to vote further on this Act until we get an indication from the Government of Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament of how much truth in this text that the journal states that Croatia also gives up on such a back-up economic belt in the form of a protected ecological fishing zone. If we all fought for the economic belt, especially us from HSP, if we got even that ecological and fishing zone is extremely humiliating for the Croatian Parliament and for the Croatian nation to work for an Avia we give up on it. And that is why we ask that the most urgent government is to see how true this information is, or until we get that indication that this Law is not voted on by Mr. President of the Parliament and the gentlemen of the ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7994	Thank you very much. It's a HNS rep club. My colleague Pusic. On behalf of the HNS Club, respected representative Radimir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7995	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, so today is not the first time again, but this time we have an extremely stressed one of those discussions and one of those topics that really enters the sections, and we the older ones remember whether or not Ripley believes it or not, but if someone doesn't remember to watch the debate in this House, in this House, they'll understand everything. So 4 months ago or before, I don't know 4 months, 5, enough in any case to forget all of us or one part of us in this House was fighting a battle where the government was trying to explain, explain the need to pass the Eco-fishing Law, explain that because of the strong pressures of the International Community that we were then exposed to and we were clearly told that we would also be exposed, the risks that it poses for the process of unconditional obtaining a visa and later also the candidacy and deadline for starting negotiations for the European Community. We explained that the essence of the difference is something we have a precedent for and what we can defend firmly, which is the ecological and fishing zone brought by one France and the other Spain. Well, on a closed Mediterranean sea, there are already some large lands in question, and there's no reason why we shouldn't exercise our right. YES, that's the minimum we need to go with, all agreeing to be a maximum economic belt. But warning that from this minimum to the maximum is only a space from the artificial islands which near our 1185 islands is not so important. But it certainly was better to have an even better quality solution to have a garrison belt. That's when HDZ HSLS DC and HSP, which I have to say, he didn't forget what G had to say publicly, but that's why everyone else did. You others are. The firm opposition stood against the government, with the following views being made. All of us who are in favour of declaring the economic belt are for the European Union but there is no future united Europe if there is no equality if double criteria are applied. Why not do a lot of quality something that is therefore truly based on international law. Let us pass this decision on to the Croatian builders and let the referendum decide in the next two weeks what they want and then let them have the legitimacy of both the Government and the Parliament and so on. To all this because the incompetence of this government is an example of today’s past incompetence. And the goals we politically achieved when we led and managed the country cannot be sold out. Therefore, not to mention those hard expressions which have also been expressed here, treason, traitors, shame on you and everything else. So these traitors who are ashamed you are unable to oppose the dictatorship of the internardon community are now asking only to apply Croatian laws and nothing else. Which they brought against your vocals and against your vote. To protect the Croatian Adriatic to disprove the public voices we read every day, if we had already succumbed to it we had fallen into a lot of things and in some other topics that I will not open here we would not have come out of the topic but we all know that the planes are flying towards The Hague. It's full. And the Ministers of Justice and the police smiled in front of the cameras, and there were no logs or chains. Here on one for us the key topic of Croatia is the economic theme, it is the subject of sovereignty, it is the theme of the future of this country and no matter how only the demagogue sounds and children of this country. We're withdrawing my fellow colleagues from everything we've said, some of us may have thought, I haven't, that all these views may be the result of irrational behavior. But one idealism of a national romance is not understanding where Croatia should go and what is good for Croatia. It's been revealed completely, it's only about the naked struggle for power. When the government was to be torn down five months ago, it was fine. All arguments were good, and today we are not prepared to apply Croatian laws. We are not in a law that protects for the first time the quality of the Croatian sea we are not ready to put a few words on the territorial sea and the fishing ecological zone. Which not only protects us organically but definitely puts our paws on the fishing space, and we will have that thesis sooner or later and we will discuss it and, judging by it, this majority will be the same position. That's what it looks like. You don't need to protect that either. If God looks like we're gonna break the law. We're going in the right direction. We're moving this country. It's a good course. Superstition. We keep our economic interests tight, we protect them tightly. I hope the citizens of this country recognize it, and I think they already recognize it. I told you all the Spanish French brought that into their Esa legal texts. The international conventions recognise this to us, the protection of what Tadic's leader spoke of is incomparable. It's one thing when we don't have these amendments that I suggested, and a colleague from HSS is another thing when we have them. We have a completely different level of protection. All of this I ask you to decide and please choose by individual vote to see who is behind Croatian interests and who sells them for a little power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7996	Correction of the incorrect allegation by Vice-President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7997	It seemed to me that Mr. Cacic had forgotten many things in his winding speech, and it seemed to me that he had forgotten the fact that the government in which he was sitting had passed a regulation that now wants to be translated into law. And that this Parliament confirmed such a regulation of the government of the Republic of Croatia that Mr. Radimir Cacic was sitting in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7998	On behalf of the SDP club, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u7999	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club is in a big dilemma about how to vote but it is evident that we will have to be abstentioned. Why? For the reason we estimate that sailing a tanker without a double shell is impossible in the Adriatic and that we simply have to secure it as soon as possible. Every protection is important to the Adriatic. But at this point, the basic problem that arises before us is why we do not use full protection in view of the laws passed. And that is why, although there are several oil terminals in the upper Adriatic, we cannot order which does not fully protect the Adriatic Sea and especially not ours, I would say our territorial belt and ecological fishing belt. Although, at the SDP club, it's particularly difficult for us to see double behavior. Since Ivica Racan, as former prime minister, defended the ecological fishing belt as a possible link between Croatian interests and the interests of our neighbours in the Adriatic and European Union, as a possible solution for us to achieve full protection through the economic belt tomorrow, and we remember very well at the time of the debate that all expressions were used precisely for prime ministers. It's for the Prime Ministers right now. That is why it is unclear for us, so it is unacceptable for us to not return to the laws adopted by the Croatian Parliament at this time, which did not satisfy the Assembly's majority at this time. He did not satisfy her as one solution that did not cause current conflicts with Europe but gave every government the opportunity to defend Croatian interests and try to agree with both neighbours and the European Union. Therefore, these documents and those laws that have been passed in Croatia's interest, I think, should now be the basis for embezzlement in the proposed law. We have here a constant attempt to find an excuse. It's an excuse, so the former government hasn't even put it in the regulation. It doesn't matter. Now we have the law. We know what the territorial sea is, we know how important it is, but we also know that we have temporarily passed the Ecological Fishing Belt Act. Let's install it into existing laws. Let's do it. It won't do us any harm, because we've passed those laws. Therefore, we are only fighting the navigation of tankers that can endanger the Adriatic and nothing will weaken the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the battle for Croatia's interests. He won't do anything. We're not going to use the rhetoric or the expressions that you were trying to fight the economic belt, and we knew it was unrealistic. We knew it would bring Croatia into conflict with its neighbours. We knew. But the prime minister who warned you about it, the former prime minister, with all the arguments he used to try to say that we didn't need these conflicts, you didn't respect him. You didn't respect him. You didn't accept. Does this mean that the argument in this assembly is not worth it? At this point is what argument? We have laws, we have our territorial seas, we have our ecological fishing belt. These are our laws, these are arguments and we build up the protection of these areas and limit the navigation of tankers that can get into the gauze. This is what we say will not compromise Croatia's position. And that's why at this point the SDP club, in this dilemma where it wants to fight, cannot accept half the solutions. We expect that reason will indeed prevail that perhaps at this point it is better to postpone this debate, because we expected at the club that you would accept the amendments, but now that we see that you are afraid to accept the amendments, we suggest that the Proposer withdraw, I would say at least the voting process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u8000	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, we, the Parliament discussed the gradual exclusion of the Law on the gradual exclusion from the navigation of tankers without double-plating. We have now come to the situation that after the debate was held and after the vote on amendments was discussed in one indirect way over the three clubs of MPs was essentially re-opened the whole debate on the draft law on its key and essential solutions. It's the same grace of this Rules of Procedure we have. I ask the Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development of Branko Bačić to take his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u8001	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'd like to say a few words concerning this particular section after the amendment has been completed. First, I must remember what I said in the debate when the law was proposed, which is that this law is almost entirely based on the regulation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted in October 2003, and I now say, and now I repeat, not on the fact that today's return to the regulation means the accusation of today's amendments, or on the grounds that are explained by the amendments rather than simply for the reasons I want to say that the proposer, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, at the time in October 2003, this regulation was based on the same arguments, the same legal positions that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is today taking on when this law was taken, and then it was more likely that there were doubts about this team, since all those 17 days after the adoption of a decision on the extension of the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea, surely the memories of this decision were closer, and the fact that the government could have been more recently resolved in such a way that it would have been taken in terms and protected in terms of territoriality and territory, but in terms. Therefore, the Government did not do so at that time, and also this Parliament had the decision at its first Constitutional session when it was adopted and strengthened, and thus the government regulation became a regulation with legal force and was then unanimously adopted by this Parliament, so only three months ago. However, given the need for our legislation to be fully in line with European Union legislation, and I will discuss this later, the Government of the Republic of Croatia wanted to strengthen this regulation further in a way that practically is passed in the Parliament and becomes a law. That's one thing. The other thing I wanted to say is that the fundamental reason for this law is to protect the Adriatic from possible pollution from ships. And this law is therefore based on the international Convention on the Protection of Contaminants from Ships or Marpool, which it has prescribed in this particular way, the prohibition of navigation by ships which do not have a double shell and thus the law and regulation adopted in October in that part is based on marpol, however, is also based on the European Union Directive in the section relating to the acceleration of deadlines, i.e. the deadlines in which a single tanker should be reduced depending on the size, depending on its size, depending on the year of construction, are gradually excluded from navigation. So that's another reason. The third reason is that we hold that such a law practically does not meet the conditions laid down by this law cannot be caught and there is no reason to sail into the Adriatic for reasons why it cannot sail into any port which, not a single Croatian port, because the law prevents it, can not sail into any Slovenian port because the legislation of the Slovenian State also prevents it. He cannot sail into any Italian port because neither Italian law nor prevents him from sailing into any port. Furthermore, he can't float, he can't stop in the Adriatic because his system of "shift reporting", i.e. reporting, gives him the obligation that when he enters the Adriatic he must first report to Brindizija, Barry, Rivers and Ancona and practically port captains in this mandatory reporting system and he can't sail the Adriatic because there's no reason. There's no reason he can't sail into any port and he can't float because he's passing, because in a navigation system he's not allowed to stay in that system and he has to sail. He can only come to the Adriatic to the top and go back. It's the only thing he can do this way, so where he can't sail anywhere, and he can't even float in that Adriatic. Therefore, with the established system and navigation-oriented scheme, a tanker that does not comply with the provisions of this Act has no reason to sail into the Adriatic. Furthermore, the fact is that only two countries, the fact is that the two countries have declared this law to be both a territorial sea and a protected coastal belt. However, the fact is that they do not have the closed sea that the Republic of Croatia has and that, with the same law passed by the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Italy, these ships cannot sail, and on the other hand, along the countries that declared this Law and extended it to the territorial sea, and the protected economic belts would be passed daily by tankers with, without double-circuits on their shores and thus risked the adoption of such a law. Because to them, if they forbid a tanker to sail without a double shell in their ports, that doesn't mean that ships still can't sail ahead of their shores. Which is not the case with the Adriatic Sea because such a case cannot happen. And for that reason, when we passed this Law and when the previous Government passed the regulation, it took care of these facts. It seems to me that the SDP Club at the hearing supported this law as we had, as it is here today at the hearing. This is what the gentleman at the meeting yesterday is about when we, at the plenary session when we talked about the Law on the Security Protection of Commercial Ships and Ports opened for international public transport, Mr Peru, just said that they would support this way, that this law, which we are discussing here today in the parliamentary debate on it, would just support it in the text proposed in order to, namely, there would be no politicisation and unnecessary politics when it comes to this law, which is entirely based on international conventions and on the law of the sea, and maror, therefore, the International Convention on the Protection of Contamination with Ships and the European Union Directive, which has partly prescribed deadlines that, which reduce the time in which tankers without double-pollutions must withdraw. We therefore hold that this is how the Law is in line with the International Maritime Organisation, that is, with the conventions it then adopted. This Act is in line with the part of the deadlines with the European Union Directive and in the third, third thing it fully achieves its effect, so that ships cannot sail to the Adriatic. And the fourth thing I also want to say, and I think it's very, very important. Namely, whether the Government intends or does not intend to give up on a protected ecological fishing belt, I must tell you that the Government of the Republic of Croatia founded an Interresor Working Group on 12 March, on which I am the head of the establishment, to propose a concrete solution to full effective control of the protected ecological fishing zone, and in this regard we held several meetings. The Interresor Working Group consists of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of European Integration, and we have just made a proposal that we are setting up in the transitional period, we propose the establishment of a coast guard whose basic task is to monitor and control a protected ecological fishing belt. Thus, so much as the government intends to give up on the protected ecological fishing belt on the one hand, and on the other hand, we hold that such a law protects the vital interests of the Republic of Croatia, which is the protection of the Adriatic. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u8002	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Košisa Chichin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u8003	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It would correct Mr. Secretary of State in the part where he said that ships have no interest in sailing to the Adriatic Sea, i.e. by not being able to sail into ports that have no interest in sailing to the sea. It is an incorrect allegation that, as we know, ships often float for a year and more, waiting for their buyer to perform in those ships until he finds a buyer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u8004	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u8005	Perhaps Mr. Secretary of State will correct what counterpart Chichin-Shain said, but I will do it in a different way than the incorrect assumption is in this. He actually entered, explaining here, I'm in a paradox, and it's saying that tankers with a single shell can sail into the Adriatic, I can go to the top of the Adriatic and go back. I can't float, I can't do anything, and after that, he said that I can't do it as far as Croatia is concerned, in our territorial sea, which is not true. That's exactly why. And finally, Mr. Secretary of State, he's not your President of Parliament, but I will, please, I didn't raise you for hurting the Rules of Procedure even though I could. I don't want to insist on that. But calling by the Secretary of State here is not appropriate, although it is not a disease. But really politics isn't about us here, we're about politics, and politics is about protecting the national interest here. Tankers that sail from the Ottran gate to Trieste and return back are not under our jurisdiction if you do not take these amendments into account. End of story.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u8006	I've heard the word politics, but I want the secretary of state to explain what he meant by that. Here you go, Mr. Bucci.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u8007	First of all, I'd like to answer to Mrs. Chichin-Shain's honourable representative. When I said that ships that enter the Adriatic in a navigation-oriented scheme cannot stop but must sail to the port of destination and return back. I told you to float in the Adriatic I can't. That's one thing. The other thing, I didn't say that, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, that parliamentary representatives deal with politics, and that didn't occur to me. I just said that last night, in the context of a debate relating to the Proposal of the Protection Act, on the security protection of merchant ships and ports open to international traffic, Mr. Peru, it seems to me, I do not see it here, that it is precisely the SDP Club that will not want to deal with politics to support this Law that is on the agenda today and its adoption. So, I didn't tell you, nor did I think of falling to the distinguished MPs to tell them to deal with politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u8008	Thank you very much. We are going to vote according to the club's proposal, according to the HNS Club's proposal, a single, personal vote has been proposed. Comrade Tomcic, here you go. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u8009	You have suggested, Mr. President, that the vote on the HNS Club's proposal be joined now. Did I hear that right?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u8010	The proposal of the HNS Club was to vote individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u8011	I'm sorry, then. I got you all wrong. Then on behalf of the HSS Club, I'm looking for a word. So, if I understand correctly, you intend to despite all these appeals to put this law to a vote. On behalf of the HSS Club, I'm looking for a break to consult at the club so that we can approach the vote. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u8012	All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u8013	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u8014	Five minutes off. My colleagues and colleagues, the break time is up. I'd like an honorary representative of Zlatko Tomcic on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u8016	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the beginning of the presentation on behalf of the HSS Club, I must sincerely express my regret, which is how we had to get the right to say a few words about this law from this pay phone anyway. We know the Rules of Procedure aren't perfect, and we know that in seeking the possibility that a man can get close to a microphone, there are various ways. We abused him this time, I publicly admit it, but we think the subject is so important, so important, that even this little abuse or cunning is how to get to the microphone is not such a serious sin. In fact, it seems to me that there are some topics in the Croatian Parliament, which are pre-convicted to be controversial. Who have been convicted in advance of opposing various political groups in this House. This is obviously the subject of a purely economic belt, so let's translate the protected ecological belt, that's the theme of these double-plated tankers, so all that's connected to one extremely important, if not the most important resource this country owns, the Adriatic Sea. In my four-year presidency of the Croatian Parliament, I must honestly say I did not have too many bitter moments, but one of the hard days was the day when the decision was made to declare a protected ecological fishing belt. That day was really hard, that day faced different concepts, that day was filled with speculation, agreements, and attempts to bring nothing. Of course I won't name anyone. But the trend was significant in this hall, that the day Croatia did not get, not only the economic belt, but also the protected belt. I took personal responsibility both for myself and for the HSS Club to make acceptable amendments that can reconcile all aspirations in this home, yet we get what is possible at that moment. We're crucified, we're spit, and today we're not sorry it happened. Mr. President, I've been sitting in this place, where you're sitting today. There is never any uglier words spoken at the expense of the President of the Parliament, at the expense of the president of a club, at the expense of one party, as it did just before the vote, or during the course of the vote on amendments. I've got my fingers against me. Shame on you. From this pay phone, it's been called on me to suggest that you're making noises, that we're settlers, that we should be ashamed of what we're doing. I am proud today after this debate that Croatia is a peasant party, and myself personally, then as the President of the Parliament that we have exposed ourselves to this unreasonable behaviour, but still managed to save the fact that Croatia today has the 95% content of the exclusive economic belt. I haven't forgotten what I was told by the HDZ. And today, Prime Minister Sanader said we didn't get anything from the bench. Ugly words, we've endured it. It wasn't easy. But Croatia today has at least what it has. And look at the wonders, after all this struggle to get something, today the minimum that we have received, with which today's ruling structure is completely unsatisfactory, was dissatisfied that we do not have an exclusive economic belt. So what if we had him? We don't even want to apply today this decision that we have in some kind of minimum, some kind of protected ecological fishing zone. Consistency of great. Honesty in treating fellow MPs to great ones. Respect for national values, national resources and respect for the future of this country, too much. I can't interpret this. I now pray, sincerely, to give up Mr. President from voting on this bill, because in this House sometimes it is necessary, and I said that last night, when we were hiding from the cameras of Croatian television, when we discussed the proposal of the National Pensions Act and then I prayed and I will repeat, I hope that maybe today someone else can hear me besides you here in the hall, that there are simply topics that this Parliament and all parties in the Assembly must try to reach a consensus, a consensus on something that is important. Yesterday I said it was important to the National Pensions Project. Today I say that this is very important when it comes to protecting, one of the most important resources this country and this people have, the protection of the Adriatic Sea. Well, if it's like Mr. Secretary of State said, it can't happen that he's sailing into the Adriatic, given all those restrictions on a tanker that can't cause some kind of hararium, which doesn't have a destination in the Adriatic Sea, if he can't really sail, then let's write that he can't sail. What's the problem, then, if it can't really happen that they can't get in. That it's such a control. So what are we afraid of? So what does free and uninterrupted passage mean? If that's true, Mr. Secretary of State, what you're saying, then we can not just write a smooth passage, but we can write it three times. So I really ask that we do not compete, we do not outwit things that are so important for the protection of the Adriatic and for the future and tourism and biological balances and biological resources in the Adriatic and all that the sea brings us. Once again, Mr. President, I sincerely urge you not to vote today. Let's leave ourselves a little time, try to talk and try to pass this law in something better that guarantees more adequate protection of this resource. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u8017	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has referred the final proposal of the Law on the gradual exclusion from the navigation of tankers without double shelling. It is included in the parliamentary procedure by emergency procedure, mostly in votes. There were objections to being classified as an emergency procedure. It's included in most of the votes. A debate has been held on the proposal for an emergency law. The government has made its views, arguments, reasons. Representatives and club representatives of opposition parties expressed their opposition, assessments, reasons why it should not be accepted first in an emergency procedure, why in the ordinary procedure, the parliamentary majority removed it. The debate was held. Today, amendments have also been discussed, voted on by the amendments. It's been discussed and voted on by the entire law. After the discussion of the amendments was concluded, the specific law was reopened through the three presidents of the opposition parties' clubs who presented all their reasons why they held that this law should not be passed. We also voted on the proposal for the conclusion of the HSS club to postpone the vote on the proposal for this law, which is now being given by the respected representative Tomcic, and the conclusion is not accepted. That conclusion was not accepted. and Madam Secretary, since there is a proposal for a name vote, the government is responsible, the parliamentary majority is responsible, we are going to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u8018	Jene Adam, Đurđa Adlešić, Irena Ahel-za, Zdenko Antešić, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović-anti, Željka Antunović, Franjo Arapović, Mato Arlović-aga, Zdenka Babić-Petričević-za, Stjepan Bačić-za, Ivan Bagarić - za, Marija Bajt, Ivo Banac, Luka Bebić - za, Snježana Biga-Friganović - v, Danira Bilić - za, Jure Bitunjac - za, Florijan Boras - za, Drazen Bosnaković - za, Ljubica Brdarić - v, Mate Brletić - za, Mirjana Brnadić - za, Kayo Bucan - za, Perica Bukić -, Karmela Kaparin - za, Mato Crkvenac - v, Radimir Čačić - v, Radimir Čačok - v, Ivan Če Lino Červar - za, Lucija Čikeš - za, Zdenka Čuhnil - v, Tomislav Čuljak - za, Krešimir Čosić - za, Miljenko Doric -, Valter Drandić - odrežan, Ivan Drmić - za, Josip Djakić - za, Anto Djapić - za, Sredko Ferenčak - v, Mirko Filipović -, Stjepan Fiolić - za, Katarina Fuček - za, Ratko Gajica - za, Mato Gavrović - za, Branimir Glava - za, Zdenko Haramija -, Vilim Herman - v, Silvano Hrelj - za, Nikola Ivan Žalić - against Mraža, Mrov Žažažažaža, Mr. [[We didn't hear him.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u8019	I now ask the secretary to read those MPs who have not been reported voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u8020	Zdenko Antešić, Željka Antunović, Miljenko Doric, Anto Đapić, Mirko Filipović, Zdenko Haramija, Nikola Ivaniš, Ivo Josipović, Ljubo Jurčić – abstention, Damir Kain, Ivan Lončar, Šime Lučin, Marija Lugarić, Zvonimir Mršić, Anton Peruško, Milorad Pupovac, Ivica Račan, Furio Radin – za. Vesna Škulić, Šemso Tanković, Ruža Tomašić, Pejo Trčević, Antun Vujić,...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-24-0.u8021	I find that 77 MPs voted in favour of the Final Proposal of this Act with amendments against 47 and 6 abstentions and thus passed the Law on the gradual exclusion from the navigation of tankers without double-plating in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. ... Gentlemen, the MPs will continue to work. [[beginning not saved]] I propose a united discussion - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Taxation, Proposer Vlad - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Taxation – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, first reading of P.Z. No. 10 Assembly consent, we're going to a united debate. I would ask the Minister of Finance, Mr Ivan Shucker, to explain the additional final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Here you go.
