ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22238	Dear MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you all. We're moving on with the session. The first item of the agenda is - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on explosive residues of war /Protocol V./ with the Convention on the Prohibition or Restriction of the application of certain conventional weapons with excessive traumatic effect or action regardless of the objective, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 167 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Mr. Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22239	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Report on the debate, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on explosive residues /Protocol V./ with the Convention on the Prohibition or Restriction of the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons with Excessive Traumaal Effect or Effect, regardless of the objective, with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z. No. 167. On 29 September, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed the proposal for a Protocol and reached the next conclusion. He decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on explosive residues of war /Protocol V/ with the Convention on the Prohibition or Restriction of the application of certain conventional weapons with excessive traumatic effect or action regardless of the objective in the text as proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22240	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22241	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HSP Club for 37 times I call on you to protect the dignity of the legal profession in Croatia and not to refer to the Croatian Assembly as bad translations as the translation of Protocol V. This is also evidence that neither in the Government nor those participating in the translation, or in the negotiations on the Protocol do not know what is inside, nor have they read it at all. According to how many of us have applied for this first point today, it is again evident that a small number of us have read this translation of the Protocol at all, because here it seems that the translators are getting according to the number of words that they are being paid for, because this has nothing to do with the Croatian language, this has nothing to do with the Croatian legal profession, this has nothing to do with the nomotechnics. Just look, good thing the Defense Minister's here, name. It says "The Convention on the Prohibition or Limitation of the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons with Excessive Traumal Effect or Action Whatever the Goal". So what is the conventional weapon that has no traumatic effect, especially on civilians? Let's get in the tank. Does the tank have an excessive traumatic impact on civilians? Of course he does. No, and even a cold weapon has an excessive traumatic effect on civilians. We don't even know, I don't know who's doing this with us. Let's at least pick, translators who know their jobs. I don't even know who's involved in these delegations. It is evident that the Croatian delegation took part in this. Do they even know where they've been? Do they even know what's in these, what's in the translation? Because objectively, whoever wants to apply this V protocol has to translate it from English. You'd have to translate English in order to apply it. The compositions are such, the expression is such that you just look at Article 1. I don't know if you've read it. It says "in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and the rules of international law of the armed conflicts that apply to them". There are no rules of international law of armed conflict. He's got international law, he's got international humanitarian rights. So here you just put a large number of words to make it obvious that the translator would get a larger amount for translation. What's good about all this? It is only good that part of us here, that Croatia assumes the obligation to mark minefields. So this is the only good thing. I'm saying this because we don't apply our regulations, so now we're going to have to apply this convention, and all we know is that five civilians died in unmarked minefields this year. So five civilians died this year in unmarked minefields. One civilian was killed in a marked position, and four pyrotechnics also died on demining operations. So we have to be persistent and protect the dignity of the legal profession, because people are already laughing at us when they're reading in "The People's News" all kinds of laws that we're making here. Especially when it comes to translations. It was a word of literal translation, a directive. We had a small million at this session. And it seems to me that the Ministry of European Integration must be careful when giving the seal of approval that it is in line with European Union regulations. It seems to me that they are easy hands, because this is what will happen to us, that when we negotiate with the European Union, we will have to re-negotiate all these laws that we are now passing, changing and harmonising. We'll go through one whole circle again. But what happens with this law and others is directed against the dignity of the legal profession, against the Croatian language, and we come into a situation where we don't know what we're bringing here. And so I ask you on behalf of the HSP Club, read this and you will see that no one else has read this except us HSPs and... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So why didn't you answer if you were reading? Let's not stick to party discipline here, by reason. Yes, sir. We protect the legal profession, but we discuss this with reason. Look at how one term in Article 2 I'm telling you, unexploded means of killing means that are initiated, equipped with a lighter, armed or otherwise prepared for action and used in armed conflicts. They could have been fired, expelled, launched or projected, and they were supposed to explode, but they didn't. We explain one concept unknown to another unknown concept. We really need to imagine where this is going. Where's this going? Mr. Minister, it's not easy for you to defend this thing. I don't know if you read this when you came here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22242	Well, you don't have to ask the minister if he's read it, it's a little... If you don't know, don't ask. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Ask him in private. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22243	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the House of Representatives. If it is in anyone's interest to conclude such a protocol, then that interest should be on the side of the Republic of Croatia. Why? Well, in this area, we all know, until nine years ago, there was an unfettered war on Croatia's territory and we still have tens or hundreds of thousands of mines scattered. It will certainly take Croatia at least another decade to free mines. And that means, as Pero Kovacevic said, that many more will suffer from mines, both those who will remove them, so certainly by accident or bystanders. And I believe so much that persons who are engaged in demining the territory of the Republic of Croatia, more precisely as they would say "cleaning Croatia from mines", deserve a proper status from the Croatian state in the event of their deaths or injuries, which should be the status of the victims of the Homeland War. Of course they deserve proper pay. Today, however, demining in the state of Croatia means that by Wednesday business, for someone good business, not as a rule for those who extract these mines, under the quotes "wage", but one thing the state of Croatia should take over, if the people involved in demining are not intending to declare in the event of their accident to the victim of the Homeland War, which is to provide them with adequate premiums in the insurance companies in the event of their injury. As far as the Protocol itself is concerned, I consider that these Articles 7 and 8, respectively, which literally states that any highly contractual party capable of doing so will provide assistance in the labelling, cleaning, removal or destruction of explosive objects of war, education of the civilian population, etc. It is then stated here that any high contractual party capable of doing so will provide assistance for care and rehabilitation and social and economic reintegration of victims of explosive remnants of war, meaning the other party, and any high contracting party will be entitled to participate to the greatest extent possible in the exchange of equipment, materials and scientific and technological data which do not relate to the technology of the production of weapons necessary for the implementation of this Protocol. And it ends, the High Contracting Parties will facilitate such exchange in accordance with national legislation and will not impose unnecessary restrictions on the supply of cleaning equipment and related technological data for humanitarian purposes. So, I took this part in this debate so that I would just point out that all this demining equipment should be released tomorrow from all customs or tax burdens, meaning customs, VAT and other government duties. I do not believe that companies dealing with demining in the Republic of Croatia can in some way damage or break the budget. Finally, we know ourselves that many of these companies are under bankruptcy, and therefore, if possible, this country, and even the basis of this Protocol, should meet them, although some owners of these companies, at the expense of their workers, are convulsing enormous benefits and leaving them to theirs, under allegations of "uncertain fate". It would also be good to create more favourable operating conditions for these demining companies and to engage if possible as many of them as possible, because jobs in Croatia will be when demining is for all of them for at least one decade, and perhaps more. Also aside from the fact that Croatia is crying out for help in demining, and some MPs have mentioned the need to provide as much as 500 million kuna in the budget for this purpose, which clearly exceeds all of our country's budgetary opportunities. The Republic of Croatia, my personal opinion and the opinion of the IDS Club should, at least with symbolic means, be involved in helping, by demining third countries, I don't know, let's say some Africans. Why? Not because of our status as an observer in the Unclassified Movement, but to thank those who have helped us as a state in the same time. The war on Croatian spaces will certainly never be again. I hope that as soon as our country enters Euro-Atlantic associations, from NATO further, it should cheapen the defence system and make Croatia absolutely safe. In my view, Croatia also has to lead a policy to help third countries, even if it is symbolic, because it can in some way be politically clearly capitalised. When I hope, when I say that I hope to join NATO as soon as possible, I do not think that Croatia must change its constitution in order to send our troops out of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but I am also aware that on the other hand, the NATO alliance is not a Swedish table, so that we will take what suits us, leave what we hold unwell. No, so I think that NATO is in our primary interest because it positiones us as one perspective country, and we will succeed in that, and if we help demining third countries no matter what, I will repeat Croatia myself for help. However, if the Republic of Croatia is involved in humanitarian aid in major disasters in some third countries, let us remember one such recent occurrence in a historic city in Iran, when some medicines, groceries, etc. were sent from these areas. Perhaps through some symbolism we can also participate in such a form of help to demining third countries. I believe that this is a matter of credibility, as is the question of credibility of the ratification of this agreement, and I personally hold that there will be no one in this House who could vote differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22244	Thank you very much. Minister Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22245	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Since I also received the text of the amendment of the Assembly Committee on Law on Article 3, it is proposed to add the word "body" to the word "central state body in charge of defence affairs". On behalf of the Government, we accept the amendment. I thank you for the debate and for Mr Kovacevic's suggestion. I read the text in Croatian, unfortunately English can't do enough, I don't know that I could judge the truthfulness of your allegations. Anyway, thanks for the suggestion and the services that do this responsible job, I'm going to distract you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22246	There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote on Friday, Wednesday.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22247	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please turn on your keys. Please, colleagues and colleagues. How much is involved? 95 present representatives and representatives. First, we are going to vote on the final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on Explosive Remains of War Protocol V, with the Convention on the Prohibition or Restriction of the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons with Excessive Traumaal Effect or Effect, regardless of the objective, emergency procedure, first and second reading of Bill No. 167. The debate is closed. The amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee was accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please engage. Vote. I'm asking for a result. I find that with 100 votes for, four abstentions, no votes against the passed Law on the Confirmation of Protocol 167 in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the adopted amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22248	We move to the second item of the agenda - Final draft law on amendments to the executive law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 168 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You have received the proposal in boxes, in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure, emergency procedure, united first and second reading of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to explain? Yeah. Ms. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mrs. Snjezana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22249	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The amendments to the Implementing Law of last year, therefore, have been subject to significant amendments to the Implementing Law since 2003. They were aimed at increasing efficiency and simplifying the executive process. Probably some of these changes and additions have achieved that goal. However, one significant newspaper was provided for by this Law, which was in fact an amendment to the bodies carrying out the executive procedure. In fact, these amendments and additions were provided for and prescribed that, instead of exclusively judicial, a mixed court and public record enforcement procedure would be introduced into our legal system, i.e. those amendments and additions to the public notebooks were given significant powers. Both in the field of decision-making and in the implementation of the performance. Thus, it was provided for these amendments and the additions to the Law that public notebooks would make solutions based on decent documents and implement them, and that, on the basis of the Court’s decision, except when it comes to movements, they would carry out the implementation. Therefore, they shall implement the implementation of the solutions adopted on the basis of a decent document. Then, on real estate, then by seizing the demand based on securities, then on demand to surrender or deliver the movable or to surrender the property, etc. They shall also carry out the assessment and sale of shares under the executive procedure, and the share, i.e. the business share in the company and the sale of other property, i.e. material rights. So, from this already dreary display, it turns out that really public notebooks should have been given great powers. It is true that these amendments and amendments to the Implementing Law, which entered into force on 8 November 2003, were intended for vaccination, the system began to be prepared and to be applied on 1 October 2004. However, at this time, it showed that it was simply not possible and that at this point public notebooks were not so broadly qualified. That's more reason. I will not return to the past and at a time when this Law has been passed, when there has already been a lot of criticism and objections in the professional public, objecting at all to such broad powers of the public notaries, starting from the first constitutional aspect, i.e., of the principle of government triodition, independence and independence of the court,... The trial. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Can public notebooks like... The party has such broad powers, about how I just counted them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then what is really the role of public notebooks that according to the Law of Literature can only act as... So, on the basis that public notebooks trust. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Already from the very title of the Head of the Law, the new head of the Law, this was already problematic because the instruction was to participate the public notebooks in the matter. However, the essence was also that this Law was actually prescribed, the way it was prescribed that public notebooks now have such broad powers. It has been shown that in this respect the Law is quite unworked, that there are plenty of gaps, that too many questions arise that even the adoption of sublegal acts would not have answered on one hand, and even the practice of public notebooks would not at this point actually be able to answer that. For example, the first is a series of procedural provisions that leave a series of questions. Then, for example, the provisions on the exemption prescribed by these amendments and amendments to the Law were prescribed. The provisions on the exemption of judges cannot be applied automatically to public notebooks. Why? Because public notebooks when they do some work today have different broad powers than judges do because they confirm,... some acts, making public records. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, they are already participating as persons, authorized persons, as public trust persons. And the question is, so what now if he was involved in making an act or if he was in a bank or a trading company, say, spent an assembly or something like that, and a company appears as a possible party in an executive procedure. Then, the provisions on local jurisdiction that prescribed the determination of certain wheels where public notebooks would be shared according to which they would receive certain executive items. The law didn't give any instructions, no guidelines. He left everything to the sublaw. It was easy to say that it was by some functional criteria, but what would be the criterion, for example, in Zagreb, where you have public notebooks just a few blocks away. Then, let's say you have provisions on punishment that a public notary can give. But he can't say it, I'm correcting myself, but he can't punish himself if the party involved in the executive procedure misbehaves, abuses all powers, but she has to inform the court about it and therefore, the court should say so. So if we are already giving such powers to the public notary in the executive procedure, why can he not give the penalty? Then, the provisions further on the prizes, i.e. the court fee that the public notary should determine or send to the court to determine, were left unedited. Because let's not forget that a public notary has the right to reward and compensation for its expenses on the one hand, and on the other hand, it's predicting whether a court fee remains. So you should see what that is then the height, which will be the total cost of the party participating in the executive procedure. Then there remains an unresolved question of the status of employees in the public record office as it is predicted that those persons employed in the public record office are carrying out the exercise of the authority of judicial officers. So, you should have, in fact, meet the conditions for a court enforcer, and the employees of the public records offices are persons who normally do not meet these conditions. Why? Because it may be that a public notary or public record works in a public record... which must have conditions as a graduate lawyer, passed a judicial exam, a certain year of internship, or are persons hired by a public notary to work as his administrative staff to which the provisions of the Labour Act apply. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, there we cannot automatically apply the provisions of the Law on Officials and Landowners. So there really remained a series of issues that were open, which could not have been removed in this relatively short time, nor could the public notebooks for all of this at this point be able to take over these jobs. So probably a path that would be paved by good intentions in order for courts to dissipate and that public notebooks really take over a part of the business, but probably not in this wide range and in this way that left a series of questions and doubts, it shows that simply public notebooks cannot take over at that point and that this would have one opposite effect. In fact, it would not contribute to the simplification and acceleration of the proceedings, and then to the dispensation of the courts, but rather to a completely different effect. And therefore, given what I have now stated, it is proposed that this Law, its short amendments and the additions to this long introduction, the erasure of the provisions that were prescribed, would provide that the public notebooks would take over almost all of the executive procedure except for the implementation of the movement. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22250	Thank you very much. I've got one correction to an incorrect quote. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22251	Vice President, it's incorrect that Madam Secretary of State said so. Maybe a little offensive for one job. She said public notebooks aren't up to this job. The service was founded by, more than 80% of former judges with long-standing practice, as a rule over 10 years of internship. And besides, the one who is only relevant to speak on behalf of the public notaries is the President of the Public Bookmark Chamber, Mr. Ante Ilic, who is on 24 February 2003, after the promotion of this Law that you are now hitching, literally said: "The public notebooks are professionally, operationally and now fully materially capable of these entrusted tasks".
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22252	Thank you very much. We have an announcement. The chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Mr Bozidar Pankretic, instead of a session of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, which was scheduled on Tuesday, so today, October 5th at 13:30 p.m. will be held at 12 p.m., in Hall 84, Ivan Mažuranić. Thank you. We're going to a club debate. Is there anyone on the board to take? I'm sorry, the Justice Committee, Mr. Rade Ivas, chairman of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22253	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary. The Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 11th session of the Proposal for a Law amending the Executive Act with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by its act of 17 September 2004. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The opening representative informed the Committee that the amendments to the provisions of the laws governing the participation of public notebooks in the performance were deleted. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. until 307e. the executive law was not well-accepted by the professional public primarily because of the indeterminateness and inability to apply in practice and did not produce results in discharging courts. In the debate, members of the Committee supported the majority of votes the proposed amendments. As the proposer's representative informed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is preparing new amendments to the Executive Act, members of the Committee suggest to the Government that as soon as possible the amendments are under way and that in a more comprehensive and comprehensive manner, the role of public notebooks is regulated in the executive procedures. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice with 6 votes in favour and 1 vote against decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law amending the Implementing Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22254	Thank you to the President of the Committee. Legislative? There isn't. We're going to a club debate. The first is Nikola Vuljanić on behalf of the HNS PGS Club. He's gone, so he's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HSP Club Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22255	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. What do we get from this Law on Amendments to the Law? We don't get anything, there's a situation as it is in the executive procedure today, and that's that a lot of objects, debt procedures and people are waiting for their rights to be achieved, and the only express procedure is that when the banks are taking interest in the citizens and the lenders then this procedure goes quickly, so people are left without their entire assets because of the kuna. 8. 11th of last year, the latest novels last year, which envisioned the participation of public notebooks in the event, came into force. Can public notebooks be involved in this work? I can, and it's proof that other countries in Europe are doing these jobs and we've got almost a year gone by, nothing's been done here. I can agree with this that it was necessary to see exactly what executives can participate in public notebooks, then it was necessary to do so today in the novel of this Law to determine exactly what situation is indisputable, where public notebooks can participate. It is true what Mrs. Ingrid said, most 80% of the public notebooks came from the ranks of judges, so they can do a lot of these things and carry out, but the least we expected was to make a reform step in this novel of the Executive Law, so we can sort out the situation so that we don't have a large number of cases, so let's just take what is the situation in the municipal court in Zagreb how many executive proposals and we know what the situation is. This isn't what we get. We get what we have now and in this part I say we agree that public notebooks cannot participate in all the executive procedures but then at least we expected this novel to determine which items they are where they could immediately participate in a way that dispels the courts and takes one important reform step that citizens expect from us and in a way that also the judicial authority becomes a service of citizens and that they get rid of the tasks. You could only see in the State's Attorney's Office's report how much exercise the state's attorney's office is running, representing the state as the one who's looking for a purpose, whether it's in another role. It's a huge number of objects and the value of property isn't so insignificant and it's not so small. But what I still have to notice here, I hope we get an explanation from the secretary of state when we finally take a step like the Justice Committee rightly says, let's see where public notebooks can participate in what extent and in what cases. But again, I say we have a legal situation the same as with a large number of current laws that we are passing here by emergency procedure, let's say in Article 2, transitional and final provisions are re-changed again, and this time it is about amending and supplementing the transitional and final provisions that have already been consumed. Look, on October 1st, he was already last week and here we are again in the provision of Article 106, other than the article... that applies, that's what the public notebooks are thinking of taking over from October 1st. There is no need to put it there anymore because that provision is legally consummated and it is inadmissible in such a way to tap into transitional and final provisions. It is also the same legal situation as the legacy of earlier, the first article says the entire text of the Executive Law means with all amendments and additions to the National Journal, while in Article 2 it only goes to changes and additions from the National Journals in the last 173/03. Therefore, we will support this, but we cannot be satisfied with this way of changing and supplementing, namely, it has been expected to arrange this Executive Procedure in a way that dissipates the courts and that the executions go far faster and see exactly what part of the public notebooks can participate in and what jobs they can do in doing, and thus achieve the effectiveness of the entire executive procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22256	Thank you. The next is the SDP club, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22257	I thank you, Madam Vice President, for the honor of the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will not vote for this Proposal for a Law amending the Implementing Law. Why? Because the saying is contrary to the adopted reform of the judiciary, which was adopted several years ago, along with the government, together with representatives of the judicial authority and together with representatives of the legislative authority. Three are very simple elements of judicial reform. Good normability, discharge, justice, and better control or personal responsibility. This is one of the laws that was just about to be released from justice. However, after a year of this law, the great vacatio legis left because these are significant changes, so after a year instead of already going into service we are not delaying this bill but even abolishing it. Therefore, we have several suggestions coming from the government, a delay in application, and now we have significant progress. Now we have a proposal where they say, the provisions are deleted, they won't apply at all. And what alternative did you suggest in the last nine months? Every delay of a few years, since several months, has produced several years behind in the reform procedure in the judiciary. Amendments to the Implementing Law did not occur because this law is not nice, they would say to lawyers, but simply because it does not work, because practice has shown that no one in this executive procedure is loyal anymore. That the participants or otherwise that such opportunities were such that they acted accordingly, then surely that this executive law should not even be changed. However, this law simply did not work in practice. Believers are growing nerves, there is justice on the street, because when the system doesn't work, when institutions don't work for the streets. And that's something that's very dangerous and that's something that's devastating. It's something that's devastating, because no one else was going to change that law to believe that he respects contracts, to respect contractual obligations, to respect judgments. Finally, and those obligations set out in the judgment, the courts generally do so because of the manner in which the Implementing Law is laid down cannot be implemented. So there is a question of effectiveness at all and what judgments are served if they are not to be executed. This is where the question arises, can I make it public notebooks? Outside the world, half-written people do this for prey. Then you must form an agency, any service. But the recommendation of the Council of Europe is long ago to the transition countries that have listened to the Council of Europe's recommendation that their national judiciary be dispersed from the so-called so-called. ... Unjudgmental cases. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Nowhere, but nowhere else in Europe, perhaps even in the world our courts are not overwhelmed by cases that do not even enter the jurisdiction of the court at all. Far from us all having as little confidence in the judiciary as we do, yet everyone would rather have his case resolved by the court than by the administration. Because we still trust the court more than the state administration. and it's perfectly natural and it's perfectly normal. But many richer countries don't allow themselves this luxury, to put everything and everything on the courts. And out here, let's say, specifically, in Italy, from independent legal services, so we only have two public records and a lawyer's office. and the impossible reform of the judiciary if we don't include them on this particular vision, both rest and execution. There are, therefore, five of such free professions out in the world doing court work. Also, the spoiling, the delivery, and a whole series of these accompanying services that have remained in our judiciary today and which make it ineffective. All these other refoming procedures that are being taken, so more investment, more judges, they will not be able to solve the problem unless the inflow of the case comes down to a reasonable extent. But then don't stop the availability of justice as you are, as the Government did when it delayed the application of the Family Law, so it doesn't allow our courts to resolve what the Constitution and the Constitutional Court's decision have to resolve, and here it doesn't allow you to dissipate the courts from cases that absolutely do not fall under their jurisdiction. The courts have spoken their word. It's not a trial. It's not a trial at all. There's no discussion of the law and the duties, and that's what the court has decided. So it was the intensity to solve a huge number of cases. And what number is it? We already have a million and 500 lags. Every year, courts are just conducting judicial reform, and better control is being dealt with more. The criminal court has solved 30% more cases, but for the crazy one. Every year the number of backlogs increases again. Why? Because there's an increase in inflow. And what objects are these? Well, at least there's a lawsuit and a criminal case. The largest number has exactly the inheritance stuff, the legacy, the land library and the huge number of executions, 6 hundred thousand dots. And of that, 80% of the executions are based on credible I.D.s. So these are things that don't come and are not taken to court from someone's bag, but that come in small trucks. Are you like Croatia to me as a country that is in transition, which wants to improve, reform its judiciary, which always has a poor budget for the judiciary can allow it? I don't think so. But no public records have been scheduled here, precisely because of the preparation of this law many have increased offices, hired new people. But they also did so because of the application of amendments to the Law on Inheritance. They solve desert objects without a problem. Let's just say in Zagreb there were 13 judges who worked on the deserts, they can now and now work freely in litigation, where there are also a large number of pending cases. Likewise, it could and could already be done with the executive procedure. If they needed some work, if there were any doubts that this law was too ambitious, then certainly it is indisputable that provision of its basics regarding the discharge that the public notebooks are currently solving these items on the basis of a credible document. After all, as far as I'm concerned, the government itself doesn't see any opposition. So this point could be the first one to remain free, so before there's any controversy about it, which is public records ready, then what's the problem? We didn't work here, gentlemen. In nine months, it's been time for some misunderstandings, something you don't like to fix. Less ambitious, they don't ask you for much ambition, but at least something. Nothing was done here, so we will vote against this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22258	I thank Mrs. Anticevic. Mr Emil Tomljanović came forward to correct the incorrect allegations, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22259	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, I would like to correct the incorrect fact that an esteemed colleague who literally said, none of the participants in the executive procedure behaves loyally by explaining this executive procedure as it is and as it should have been. It is an incorrect allegation that participants in the executive procedure, in particular at the Municipal Courts as first-degree courts, and that is, in the end of the line, which is their legal obligation to behave loyally and to carry out executive proceedings in the present, according to the current regulations as they apply. Compared to other incorrect allegations, and enough is enough, I will manifest myself in an individual debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22260	Thank you. The next is representative Velimir Dance on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22261	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Last year, when the draft executive law was passed, also on behalf of the HDZ Club on the bill proposal, I said we supported and supported the proposal in the section of the restrictions on the right to appeal and delay the exercise. Preventing and delaying and abuse of procedural rights, introducing sales commissions. But I've also expressed a serious reserve in overcoming the work of jurisdiction on public notebooks. Because it was, like I said, political volunteerism and inconceivableness. I said that the continued transfer of the jurisdiction of courts to public notebooks, and in order to demonstrate a statistical demonstration of the improvement of the situation in the judiciary of the party cannot achieve their rights more quickly and easily, and then blame the notaries for the slowness and ineffectiveness. And that's not what needs to be accepted, because the problem of these powerful executions will not be solved. Moreover, it was already clear to the public that something had been imposed on public notaries without discussion and proper response and agreement with them and their public record chamber. And I also believe that this issue should be resolved by certain amendments to the Law on Public Literature. On behalf of the promoter, the then deputy justice minister said there is no doubt that public notebooks, especially those who have not worked as judges or as lawyers, would have to have additional training in order to successfully carry out the performance work. It was also very tender in the name of the promoter to defend the thesis that public notebooks and the Public Note Chamber had been involved since the beginning in the preparation of the Law, arguing that the notebooks were able to take over these jobs and, if they were shown not to be, there is no obstacle to filling up 50 other public places throughout the country. We support at this time the amendment of this Implementing Act because it changes, abolishes the corrections that correct something that has been changed by force and has been complemented and where no clear objectives have been set which have been wanted to produce. And we do not support that part because there is no final solution in which this performance will still be improved and implemented more quickly. It was not known by this Law that we are now changing, how it will be produced in practice, and what it will do to a good man. We support these changes because it was once again a reform but whose background was not any improvement in neither efficiency nor reduction in the number of pending cases, but it was only a matter of transferring jobs to someone else because this corrects the way the novel was brought forward and whose provisions would have been made if the other ones as provided by the legislator had simply compromised the service that we managed to establish relatively quickly 10 years ago without major problems and earthquakes, a service which successfully carried out its task and a service that has contributed to the stabilisation of the legal order and an increase in the overall level of legal certainty. We support the adoption of these amendments because there are only three countries in the European Union where public notebooks participate in the executive procedure and only when it comes to selling real estate. We also support the adoption of amendments to the Executive Act because we believe that the overload of courts can also be solved in different ways rather than by transferring certain jobs to new tasks of public notebooks. To do other things with exceptions to this proposal that we are now changing would be determined by the court and carried out by public notebooks. And on the basis of credible documents, they would determine and carry out only public notes. As far as I'm aware, public notebooks don't determine or carry out an errand anywhere in the world. They may be performing only some activities such as public service and as far as possible according to our now existing and valid Implementing Law. We support the adoption of these amendments to the law because of the so-called model. The free Latin notary, which we accepted from the new in 1993, includes public service as a service of preventive legal protection. Public notebooks as unringed commissioners of all parties draw up documents, verify signatures, issue certificates, protest exchanges, etc. They don't have any coercion. And then turn public notebooks, these impartial commissioners of parties whose mission is to provide so-called The preventive legal protection, the repressive service was or rather a major failure. It is only possible that public notaries should and can be entrusted with the executive procedure would be able to make a decision on the performance on the basis of a credible document. But not the implementation of the exercise on the basis of a powerful such solution. If the public notaries were to also be given jobs that were foreseen by this Law that we are changing today, and these jobs that are being spoken of here, they would become the exponents of the trustee’s interest to pay them, they would have to use coercion against the perpetrators, sequestered property, forced to sell, emigrate them, etc., etc. This would lead the public service to find itself in a protracted position, and such a situation would likely lead to the paralysis of that service in perspective and the question of its continued existence on such issues would be taken into account. It is therefore good that we do not burden this service with matters that are outside its legal function and which it cannot perform in parallel with its function. To believe that the effort needed to train the notebooks will now be directed towards the creation of special specialised private contractors with public powers as it is in a number of other European countries, and here in our nearest Slovenia. Jobs intended to be transferred to public notaries as shown by other countries' experiences may be performed by persons with medium and higher professional training. With this great effort to train them, I mean the training of public notebooks he spoke of when the law was passed, then the Deputy Minister of Justice, could increase the level of competence and efficiency of judicial executive services that have prevailed over the matter of law enforcement over the past few years. When and if the execution were to be transferred to public notebooks, it would lead to a double and even greater increase in the number of public places, as they would otherwise be able to overcome thousands and thousands of executives. Such a situation would lead to a serious threat to that service. To believe that what public notebooks could charge for their operations in the executive procedure would be very modest, as the state would prove to be serious and social in other people's public accounts. On the other hand, even unfair competition may occur between public notaries in those jobs for which a relatively higher reward is provided. This could seriously undermine the integrity of the service and reduce public trust but also in the finality and state of the service. And final. In the efficiency of the exercise, citizens best see how much trust they can have in the legal institutions of their country, and the Executive Law encourages the creation of civil and business morality and order. And only the statistical transfer of cases to public notebooks and thus the reduction of pending cases in court is certainly not a desirable change for citizens. Since the believers still could not get their rights and the debtors would continue to be protected. In the hope that the Proposer of these Amendments and the addition of the Executive Act will soon provide us with some new novel and addition of the Executive Act in the sense of integrating the executive procedure through some other services of the HDZ Club will support this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22262	Thank you, sir... On behalf of the IDS Club, Representative Caine has applied for the debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go, buddy Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22263	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, the esteemed State Secretary, the esteemed gentlemen of the House of Representatives. First, by this law we are late, if we are four days late, or if we adopt these amendments tomorrow or supplementation, we will be five days late. Why? Because it's 1. Ten. Article 94 should enter into force in 2004. The law of law. So there are no necessary implementing rules and now because of this lack or, as Mrs Antunovic said shortly before, neglect or nerada, or because of this non-shallance as I would say, articles 307a are now lifted, all the way up to 307th of this Implementing Law. The truth is, as everyone said less that the notebooks today would be difficult to do this job, it means work. The question is, do they even want it because they have the possibility of making a great living anyway, without being overly resentful to anyone? However, as much as the book fees may be inappropriately high, this does not diminish the need for them to exist on the other hand. However, their fees for many are rudely high. In this argument, on page 2, it is literally said that it is estimated that the application of these provisions would lead to the dispute of the executive procedure, confusion about dealing with a number of situations which could in practice arise, and it is unclear that these provisions would be applied for example, for example, a series of procedural provisions are not prescribed by law. The place of competence of the public notary, the establishment of criteria for the uniform distribution of cases, the problem of spatial conditions of public notebooks for the performance of these tasks, the staff conditions of public records offices, the invariability of the exemption provisions laid down by the Law on the litigation process, and so on and so on. The law is, as everyone said, adopted a year ago, and after that year, it's already changing. That's when it was explained, I don't have that explanation in front of me, but I guess everything contrary to what's in this explanation of these amendments and the addition of the executive law. It's interesting that the argument was written by the same people and then and now. Then what has changed in this country? The government has changed clearly, the ministers have changed. Now, what does that mean in the end? That the state itself encourages confusion in the legal system. To foster mistrust in the legal system and systematically, I dare say the widespread uncertainty of both our citizens in the legal order and institutions in these areas. Nowhere in the world is there likely to be easier changes in organic laws than in the Republic of Croatia. And the question arises where does it lead? I hold first of all the mistrust in the state that ultimately has in case we are bypassed by all relevant institutions in a large port. And that's actually the point. Until we offer the world one, one permanent legal order and Croatia will not develop. Until we offer our citizens a permanent legal order, and they will not engage to the greater extent in the welfare of this country. It is this law that comes, by my judgment, to one of the powerful influences that the notary lobbyists had on the Ministry of Justice. Article 307 states here that public notebooks, on the basis of judicial solutions on the execution or solution of a clear court, carry out an activity on real estate by confiscation of demand based on securities, on claims to surrender or deliver movable property or to surrender real estate for the purpose of emptying real estate and clear division of things. In this matter, we almost would not need the courts if we left all these powers to the notaries, but they do not go so widely into the old European democracies because they do so to the notaries and leave it in a very narrow form in Europe only three European countries. However, whether it is now smarter to go to an amendment to this law or to law enforcement through a series of sublegal acts or implementing rules. I think that's the point. Those who have proposed this legislative proposal understandably will defend it. Those who propose amendments will clearly dispute this legislative proposal. But where the truth is, though, I suppose at this point the performance in this form is difficult to carry out at least not exclusively our notebooks. It is true that this permanent, permanent change of standards, the law largely harms the Republic of Croatia. Croatia simply cannot afford the luxury of changing every government over and over again by the whole legal order when it assumes power in this country. Okay, this law is not or is in force we see it all for 4 or 5 days by tomorrow, but regardless of all these improvisations, I think these improvisations are bright and they don't help the image of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, why hasn't this law changed like that last week? So on Friday and that we were at least within some legal deadline when there was a chance and that should also be, you should get an answer. For the end of as logical as the change in the IDS Club is, it wants to warn of harmful and destructive practices for the country. So, I don't know, maybe it's best to be abstentioned, and on the other hand, it's good to support this law for one detail, because in the public record process other than the reward and fees for the notaries, the court fee would also be paid, which would say that the procedure for our citizens would be incomparably more expensive than it is at this point. So the costs would increase in general for citizens, and it certainly is not necessary for our citizens to do so, and it is in some way necessary to get up, but it should be warned in parallel with that, probably at the height of the public note fee, for which they are not to blame, but also the tariffs behind which the state institutions stand in some way. The dispersion of courts about what was just before for this speaker is clear that it should be imperative, but since it is obvious that this government does not intend to make these implementing decisions, I do not know what is left but to abolish these provisions even though we are all aware that the next day will live at least in part of the possibility and in our public notaries to carry out the performance. It will probably not go as widely as it was proposed in this legislative proposal or in the former legislative proposal, however, one day it will certainly happen because Croatia has 600 thousand outstanding tasks at this time, and it is clear to all that the courts cannot fully implement this because they are not prepared for it. That's why the IDS Club, I don't know, will most likely be restrained when this legal proposal is made.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22264	Thank you, colleague Cain. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Josip Vresk. Here's my colleague, Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22265	Madam Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs, I understand the government's haste to bring about a quick amendment to the executive law and simply because it has been applied since October 1st of this year and there was really something urgent to be done, but I don't understand any other things. First, indeed, the former government had a model that wanted to achieve two goals, which is the first objective of discharging courts, and the second goal is to increase the efficiency of the executive process itself and to remain with the model. Of course, some countries know the model that public notebooks carry out certain things, not all of them, but certain actions in the executive process. Some countries also have some other models, but most of the executive proceedings are not carried out through court. As for that first objective, which is the dispensation of courts, courts are the most burdened with three types of cases if they look at court statistics, then it is very clearly visible. These are primarily desert objects, these are executives and these are land-based books. When we decide which of these cases are to be excluded from the jurisdiction of the courts, we have actually already taken one first step, we have excluded the desert objects and assigned them to the work of the public notaries. According to their vote, land-based book items cannot be excluded from courts because they are simply land-based book departments, or as they like to be popularly referred to as land-based book courts related to the court, and these cases must remain in court. The rest are therefore executive and one small group of outsider objects that are not numerically represented, and executive premiums. As far as these non-partisan litigation cases are concerned, it is also true that one part of these items would fall under administrative jurisdiction, and that is where it will be necessary to react. And in fact, the largest figure that burdens the work of courts is executives. If we just exempt these four largest courts, which are Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and Osijek, then we'll see how many gkodišni inflows of executive premises and how many of these are increasing from year to year. The former government has chosen a model to assign individual, not all, actions to the executive procedure to the work of public notaries. She left enough time for me to bring in the sublegal acts needed to do so and to prepare public notebooks so that they could carry out their duties. As for the qualifications of public notebooks, I find it really hard to talk about people I claim to have been highly educated for the job. That they had been educated in a way that had graduated from law school, passed a judicial exam, passed public records and exams, and had so many years of internships prescribed by the law. And if we had finally made sure of that, we could have made sure because they've been doing desert procedures for a while now, and I think the ministry is satisfied with their work. Let's not forget the other thing, that most of the shop in the executive procedure is now conducted by judges, conducted by an official in court. Of course, under the control of the judge and mostly without the right to sign because their actions are approved by the judge or by a particular judicial referendum by his signature after he controls the case. Now it's hard to compare one and the other kind of predret and say it's not even a subject, how complicated one objects are as complicated as the other. However, I very responsibly argue that we would achieve cumulatively both goals if we continued to leave such power to the public notaries to carry out the executive procedures, of course I agree that this is now impossible. Because neither the public notebooks are prepared for this, nor are the sublegal acts passed, and it is difficult to discuss it. I understand from that side of the government. I don't understand the other thing. This part of the law is now being taken down, so we're erasing, and we're not substituting it with anything. We know that our executive procedure is what it is, that the law is one that does not allow us to conduct the executive procedure quickly. And we're not substituting anything. I hope that at least what the representative of the government said in the work of the board, that we will see very quickly in the light of the day a new modern executive procedure, and that you will very easily agree that most of the disputes end unfortunately, unfortunately, over the top. Why I don't know it that way, but that's the way it is. What we should also say here is that we often hear a story whose rights should actually be protected in a modern executive procedure. One is to protect these social rights of debtors, the other are to protect the rights of the believer. Every modern law enforcement law, and all the wrong ones, the shield of rights and debtors, but it protects rights and creditors, but it enables the executive procedure to be swift, to be effective and to be fully legal. I don't think these changes can be done without being achieved. On the other hand, I understand again the government why it is so, I hope that it will soon come to light day I repeat before this Parliament, the new modern law of law. However, however, the Croatian Peasants' Party Club will not support these changes for these reasons, believing that the government had quite enough time. First, to bring in sublaws, and secondly to organise public notebooks themselves so that they can carry out the executive procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22266	I'd like to thank Agent Vresk. This ended the debate on behalf of the clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. The first is Mr. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22267	Madam Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a law that re-determins the provisions of the laws that have been passed earlier that puts them out of force. My opinion that these provisions really need to be put out of force by law enforcement law simply these doubts which the Government's representative said from this pay phone and, in fact, which are mentioned in this argument are really very serious characters. And indeed if there are and there are constitutional legal doubts about the possibility that the notebooks are carrying out these actions to which they are authorized by this law. I think you should appreciate that. As for how this would work in practice, I think it would be good to do one simulation or one assessment of how many of these cases would actually be solved by the notebooks, and how much they would discharge the courts in that way. In my opinion, I think that would be very little. Because the job of the notebook would be reduced to the following in this situation. When a party submits a proposal for an enforcement on the basis of some credible documents, therefore any account, whether the bonds were copies of the accounts. He submits a proposal for a real-estate performance, on some property for a dream on paper. Or on something else, the notary would be in a position to put a solution meant to place a stamp on that proposal and make a decision on the matter. The party within 8 days has the right to object to this solution, and where we come from, we come back to court. I think if you made one statistic you'd see that very very few objects and a very small percentage is where the complaints in those 8 days are gone, and where it actually all ends up in that actually stage. So on the other hand, I think we should absolutely respect these reasons for the government's very doubts actually one such solution. And if there are solutions out there that really public notebooks participate in certain stages of the executive process, I think it should really be very studioy and very analytical to approach it. And with changes to the future executive law, it is certain that it will have to be redefine the law itself to public records, including the definition of a public notary in order to remove constitutional legal doubts about public notaries. And indeed, this law, I must admit, is not perceived as the government's resignation from some kind of judicial reform and as something that the government doesn't really want to dissipate. Because I have to say those objections that were that nothing was done in nine months, we can compete with these speakers and say that nothing was done. Or some of us can say that a lot has been done, but actually citizens who have specific cases in courts will best assess whether something is happening in the judiciary or not. The problems of the judiciary are indeed great. And eight months is too short for something more significant to happen and something more significant in practice to feel that it's happening in the judiciary. And certainly this four-year term will not be enough for the situation in the judiciary to be fully resolved. And that the situation would be as our citizens expect. But in my opinion and in fact what I see in practice, the most significant measure that this government has taken and which we, as a Parliament, have passed through the amendment of the law on regular courtships, is this. That we have passed a legal provision whereby the President of the Supreme Court has the right and authority of cases from those courts that are burdened with sharing those courts which are less burdened with resolution. E, I see it in these cases and I know very well in practice that a good part of the case is, for example, from the County Court in Zagreb, sent to the County Court in Požega, Gradiška, Slavonski Brod and all those cases that have been convicted in fact for an even longer number of years to wait at the County Court in Zagreb, are slowly returning resolved from these small courts. This is one measure that I think is, which has actually been proposed long ago in professional circles and should have been proposed in 2000 and far before 2000. So before 2000, we had far fewer unsolved cases in our courts. And that's why I can't agree that nothing is done about the judiciary. This is one measure that in practice works and gives results, and I think that in these four years, it will certainly contribute to the more efficient work of our judiciary. I am sorry, because here it was said that these amendments to the law when the legislator had passed them, and he had brought them, and I agree in the best interest to speed up the executive procedure which is indeed trom and slow, that the Government has now not obtained the opinion of the Public Bookmark Chamber, because I personally spoke to many of the notaries, and also to the representatives of the Chamber and all agree that these provisions cannot be revived and that these provisions in this form should be removed from the law, which of course does not mean that public notebooks should be removed from the application and in some redefining of the executive law should certainly be taken into account and they should be included in this process, but in one way that will not cause such doubts that are constitutionally legal. Or imagine an executive procedure that predicts that in the executive procedure they can also express fines and penalties by reason. According to this, the public notebooks would have the right to impose fines, a prison sentence if it were to be imposed in an executive procedure, and he would have to give the court a brief ruling to resolve it. These are less theoretical possibilities which in practice actually have very few and what in practice we can hardly, hardly see. But anyway, this is a law that we absolutely have to pass, because it's de facto since October 1st in force, and it's actually inconclusive. And since it is inconclusive, we have to put it out of force, but the other thing is that we really have to warn, and I'm glad, because we've heard from the representatives of the government and the Justice Committee and the Legislative Committee that the government is working on amendments to the executive law, because the exercise is really, we say, the final stage in protecting citizens' rights, because a man can conduct a court procedure to establish or recognise a right for many years, he can invest money in court fees, in lawyers and all that. After a long number of years of trial in this litigation, his right is recognised and then comes into effect and in fact all of it, all of it, turns out to him in vain, because he does not exercise and regulate his right to do so. The exercise really needs to be arranged in a way that can be fast, efficient, elastic and that as little as possible narrows this circle and medicines and instruments through which this performance can be drawn up, through which this performance can be delayed, because this is something that is still possible under existing legislation. And this law must indeed be passed for technical reasons, but in any case, the problem of the exercise exists, and I hope that the government will follow these current legal changes that have been brought into the judiciary, by my belief for good, that it will also do so in the subsequent legislative changes to the Implementing Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22268	Thank you, Mr. Bosnjakovic. Next up is Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22269	Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, let me tell you about the draft law on amendments to the executive law, introducing that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law itself, as we already had the opportunity to hear, came into effect in the month of November last year. However, Article 106 of the Regulation delayed the application of Article 94 until 1 October 2004. This article, i.e. the additional articles of 307a, is to be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. up to 307s. A detailed institute for the participation of public notebooks in the task of introducing, for the first time, the judicial public-book enforcement system into our legislation and that it should have been applied and included as a mixed system, i.e. a combination of conditional jurisdictional powers vis-à-vis the public-book jurisdiction in the conduct of the exercise itself. Such a system in line with the legal decisions, gives public notaries authority, not small, and it comes down primarily to: 1. So that they make decisions on performance based on a credible document, they should and should implement those solutions, unless it is a movement operation, and the basis of Article 307a. paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2. public notebooks would base judicial solutions on real estate, sequestering securities based on securities, then demand to surrender or deliver property, or to surrender real estate, and in order to empty real estate and share things and 3. should carry out in the executive process the assessment and sale of shares, and the share, i.e. the business share in the company and the sale of other property or material rights. These undoubtedly very important changes to the executive system, and the transfer of competence to public notaries in terms of the intensity of the applicant, were to be obtained by resulting, on the one hand, the dispensation in terms of the reception and resolution of these cases, in the first instance of municipal courts, and, on the other hand, the public notation system in the Republic of Croatia was to be promoted as a new body of the executive procedure, which would be more effective in solving those cases and thus contribute to more up-to-date justice and legal certainty of citizens. However, it is whiteish that this system is not applicable at the current level of organisation of public records, i.e. inapplicable. When we talk about public notaries here, of course I am talking about their degree of organisation, and certainly not about their professional preparation, education, education and so on, because we have already had the opportunity to hear in the debate that these lawyers are educated with passed and judicial and public-booked exams, with enough years of work experience, of course not only public-book jobs, but also other justice jobs can be done absolutely, in a good way. However, this system is impossible to apply in practice. Its application would result in even greater confusion in solving executive cases and further certain further accumulation of pending cases. They are not without legal bases or criticisms that are addressed to this system from professional circles, which we can recognise to two basics: the first one was and is today still existing constitutionally-legal or constitutionally-legal nature, because it was claimed and claimed that the system is directly contrary to the constitutional principle of the government's tridivision, hence the executive, legislative and judicial principle. So, with the basic principle that all the judicial authorities, but precisely all the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia under the Constitution, are, of course, carried out by courts. And secondly, a public-book or professional, we can also call it the objection that is based on the Law on a public notary where a public notary is defined as an impartial commissioner of the parties, not as a body which has the jurisdiction to carry out court proceedings in a specific case of enforcement. In addition, we have a whole number of other problems, I will not list them all, some of us have had the opportunity to hear with quality reasons, but local competences in this public notary system are evident, further setting up criteria for the equal distribution of objects, then problems and spatial conditions and status of employees in public records offices, and of course also the controversial subsidiary application of the Law on Parietal Procedure in relation to the application of the public notary exemption institute in a particular situation. This "exemption institute" is therefore by force of the law we have a reference to the application of the Law on Procedural Procedure, therefore absolute trial, not a questionable, not a disputed trial in these situations, but in some other situations these are, in general, objecting to enforcement, or a solution to enforcement on the basis of a credible document, where, after an automatic resolution or legal solution under the object of such objections, the courts decide. So it's impossible to leave out that link, or the connection of the system. We have had the opportunity to hear this, as an execution is quite the opposite of a procedure based on a litigation procedure, but the practice in the conduct of the conduct of life, it is actually seen from specific cases that even from the exercise very often one, of course an executive case is obtained, but which, by applying the procedural rules on it, decides the local and really competent courts as first-degree courts, so municipal courts. It is pointed out by itself, and in short, that the implementation of the cited provisions of the Executive Act is not possible, so the proposal for a law amending the Implementing Law should absolutely be supported in this respect and, of course, in the emergency procedure and related to all those deadlines that we had the opportunity to hear in the debate. However, allow me to conclude only two sentences, of course about the system of public, public record system set up in the Public Bookmark Chamber, and that is what we had the opportunity to hear about today. It is evident that public records as one particularly regulated law, so either profession or service, and also related to staff who are educated and trained to deal with, not only public record work, but would dare to say so more sophisticated legal problems and subjects for sure not only enforcement or executive law, but also this system should experience a certain change, here and that is my message in relation to the resolution ministry, because often fellow public notaries are respected, regardless of their profession in practice, are reduced to people who place stamps on certain documents, and where their knowledge and everything they can and even contribute to judicial reform for these reasons is not easily and based on legal provisions. Well, of course, in terms of some new solutions or solutions in the Implementing Regulation, there would be no burning, but it would be necessary once again to search this system and to bring one another into line, that is, in a way that goes for the judiciary and for all of us, for society as a whole, the best solutions, and it should ultimately result in a reduction in the number of cases, an update of the case, legal certainty and, of course, a more effective judiciary as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22270	Thank you very much. He's still Mr. Rade Ivas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22271	Dear Vice President, Madam Secretary. Just a few words about the bill that's in front of us. In fact, the amendments to the Implementing Law were implemented last year in a very large amount, with the main aim of disbanding the court. Articles 307a to 307 were introduced and the participation of public notebooks on performance was prescribed. This proposal proposes that those provisions be repealed. These provisions are laid down and introduced a mixed judicial-book enforcement system in which public notebooks have been authorised to adopt and implement performance solutions on the basis of credible documents, to implement decisions based on judicial solutions on property operations, sequestrations, securities-based trajects, on a request to surrender or deliver property or to surrender real estate in order to discharge property of things and carry out in the executive process of assessing and selling shares and shares, i.e. a business share in companies and the sale of other property or material rights. These provisions in professional circles, as well as in the part of public notebooks and courts, the judges have had major criticism over certain indetermination, i.e. inability to apply in practice and at all their contribution to the discharge of courts. In fact, one of the main reasons for introducing this institute was the legislator's desire to dissipate the courts. The question is here and are the public notebooks today trained to conduct these procedures in view of their personnel in possession of the space and premises they have. I'm not questioning the ability of public notaries to lead these proceedings, certainly they're qualified people, especially people who have both court practice and law practice behind them, but it's obvious that at this point, for a number of other reasons that are presented here, they would not be available. Otherwise, the idea of trying to relieve the courts is very good. The fact is, today the courts are loaded with executive cases. We've heard here that there are over 600,000 executive cases, that they grow year after year, and the idea that the courts are dispersed and this way is welcome and it's commendable. However, at this point, we are obviously not in a position to be able, or matured, all the conditions for this to be done. The fact is that the provisions of Articles 307 and 307a and 307a of the Implementing Law cannot be implemented because they have not adopted a series of implementing provisions and, on the other hand, the courts, since the law has entered into force, would no longer be able to, or would no longer be, competent in the procedures for which the jurisdiction of the public notebooks is provided. Surely this would also lead to legal uncertainty and impediment in solving executive cases. That is why I believe that the adoption of this Proposal for a Law amending the Implementing Law is necessary and should be adopted. But I will also repeat what we on the board have concluded, that we support and suggest that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopt and prepare a new Law amending the Implementing Law, which will regulate the role of public notaries in the executive procedure in a comprehensive and comprehensive manner. I believe that we will also have this law in the debate, and as far as this law is concerned, I propose and believe that the Croatian Parliament will accept these amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22272	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 207, the time has passed for the application of 10 minutes at 11.03. Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22273	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It is evident that the application of a mixed system, i.e. the Institute of Public Registration, will be either delayed or deleted as a possible institute and a possible measure which should have primarily contributed to the resolution of more than 600 thousand outstanding disputes in relation to the implementation of today in courts in Croatia. In the case of the adoption of such a bill, it was primarily managed by the fact that the structure of those 600 thousand executives, which is what this is about. The very fact that almost more than 100,000 items in Zagreb itself refer to so-called The communal order, i.e. the operation resulting from municipal services, is in favour of the fact that the largest majority of the debtors are citizens, primarily through municipal services, electricity, water and everything else. It is precisely this reason that, in order to relieve court proceedings, a proposal has been adopted that public notaries can perform those services in which there should be no elements of the dispute in nature, as the elements of the dispute were precisely the main thesis of all those who advocated that this was incompatible with the role of Commissioners impartial. And precisely these elements of the dispute in nature in most of these cases and there is no argument that at this point, and which is unquestionably also the representatives of the associations of public notaries and the professional public absolutely holds that at this point today, and on October 1st of this year, there was no operational possibility of using this instrument. But we didn't do anything to get to him. We have not adapted and we have not implemented the whole procedure in this way and therefore, of course, the huge work that has been, only accumulated, the problems will of course not solve themselves, and it is unquestionable that the courts, above all, insist on the adoption of certain measures. Is that a measure of sharp so-called. The implementing law, whether it is a measure to introduce public records into this system that is not entirely incompatible if we exempt the elements of the dispute in resolution, that part of the resolution that would solve the public record offices. Of course, we come back to the fact that it is necessary to defend, the believers or the debtors. What should be the law of law against one another? Social justice often becomes the most important element in public debates, and usually this element of social justice is referred to the wrong place, and then the element of social law is directed towards the court. The Court is not an element of social sensitivity, it is primarily an element of the rule of law and the element of law, and social justice and equality should primarily be sought in response to society, therefore in response to this Parliament or to the legislator who should prescribe the elements of social justice and thus help and resolve that node. Because it is evident that the growth of executives accumulated every year cannot be answered by the strength of the law and without taking into account the social element. Why? Well, the fact is that in the last few years since the so-called "application". a more restrictive attitude towards executive cases, that almost 20% increase precisely the subject matter of the Executive Law on municipal and similar issues. According to this, citizens obviously cannot meet their obligations, can neither within the framework of the home budget, but clearly cannot do so in the context of loans and loans raised by banks. However, banks have found their way of responding to them in the nature of things and do not need stronger and better quality executive law, they have found instruments to push citizens to make what citizens are obliged to do so very quickly and very effectively back. Therefore, the non-implementability of the law is not exactly that it has affected all equally, it has struck all but different. Someone got hit in the plus, and they keep someone down. Therefore, this social sensitivity and the differences that exist in society cannot be treated through already passed laws or by the court to ask them to act differently. Therefore, and it is said, although the government's representative did not say anything about it, that it is seriously considering a new executive law that should be more firm, it should probably be on the side of the creditors, but it is said that it will sublime some new measures that have not been known so far, which is that it will be able to sell real estate and property in the event of an implementation and a 50% price in order to settle 10% of the value of the total property. It is said that there will be an instrument of full pay seized, so far it has been limited to ensure that social minimum, and then great lawyers say that it is actually good and that it is in the citizens' interest because then it will have full credit, it will not be a third of its salary, but it will have a full salary, and after that it will fail, it will probably not matter anyway. So today we're just talking about the segment of the abolition of the Institute of Public Literature in a way that we don't even need in nature. We could also postpone this current one in time until the adoption of a new Law on Business that I am sure, and you see that both agree and others disagree when the law is passed, that these institutions of public notation should still be left behind and that in the future they should be left at the fullest of their contents to be placed precisely on those elements in which there is no legal dispute and to perform those functions that are not incompatible with the aspect of public notation. Therefore, I do not think that there were any particularly justified reasons to delete public records and to automatically send a message that they are not able to fulfill this function, because it is evident that they will not then appear in the new final draft of the law which will obviously be firmer and will be on the line on which they are apparently looking for advocates who always speak for the believers. And that's why I can't personally support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22274	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22275	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. By discussing this issue, we must certainly come from the question of what is the situation in our judiciary. We need to talk seriously and openly about it once, because this situation is unbearable. That's creepy. Well, look at these lawsuits last for 10, 20 years in completely banal disputes. And then when the citizens finally come to some kind of final judgment, what then? What can they do with that powerful verdict? I can't do anything, I need to open a new executive process. And now that executive's been going on for 10 years again. And who's using all this together? Well, that's certainly what he's using for debtors, con men, usurperers, all those who are responsible for the judicial system in this country not working. They're here for a win. The believers are certainly cut off and all those who in any way are damaged in their own right that should be exercised. What was the former government going to do, what was the intention when it proposed the introduction of the notebook? So it was guided by the idea that this process would speed up and its too long, unwarranted long duration would be the ultimate injustice. Because really, do these executive procedures have to last that long? Look, there's some kind of reasonable deadline, every solution would have to be totally brought in within 15 days, for the longest month. And that doesn't last in that, so reasonably short, acceptablely short. This extends the ad infinitum. We can't agree on that, none of us, regardless of party membership. We can't say the duration now, so let them last, what then. Something must be done. The former minister tried, therefore, to bring in the notebooks. The current minister says it's wrong, it needs to be changed, and it doesn't say what's right. We haven't heard what's going on here. Which will make one bad situation change. We didn't hear that recipe here. Look, it could be a valid observation that the execution is a deep-destinal business because it's conflicting within itself. That's what the theorists say. Okay, that's fine. Let's respect that. Let the courts bring solutions, even in those undeniable cases. Let them come up with solutions, but then that implementation of that solution must be a trial. This can be done by anyone on the basis of, of course, judicial authority, the basis of the law to which the court can share the execution of that exercise. In any case, something has to be done. Well, come on, there's no minister, we're all waiting for something to be done. It's easy for us to wait. They're all waiting for those who are denied their right. They need to be answered by the question of what will be done. Look, when the former government proposed, therefore, the introduction of the notebook, HDZ was against it. I personally thought they knew why they were against and that they had a solution to how they would do it. And that as soon as they win power, they will come with that solution. It was seen that they had no solutions either then, they don't have it now because they'd probably offer it. But it's important, a solution, to find a solution. The government, we hear here, is seriously considering, is seriously considering changing the executive law. It's getting a little comical because we hear here every day that the government is seriously considering something. Well, it's been eight months now. Well, that time for serious thinking is already up. So I would fully understand that now this Law is changing because it proposes a new, better quality, smarter, which will solve the problem. The results of these thoughts the government is taking we don't see here. So let the minister or make the judges do more work or change the executive law to make him tough and efficient, as we have heard here or let him do anything, anything. But this unbearable solution, this unbearable situation has to stop. It has to, the sooner the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22276	Thank you very much. The government should keep serious, not just stop thinking about it now. I think about it all the time. ... Snježana Bagic, please. [[You can't hear the speaker away from the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22277	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. At the end of the debate, I don't think it's a question of what the goal is. It is clear to all, especially those who have conducted some kind of executive procedure. And this is that something, therefore, that the claim made in the court proceedings or on the basis of some executive document that may even be a public record document, they made the payment of their claim because their debtor did not want to charge it in a peaceful procedure. Therefore, after sometimes and quite a long-term procedure, they are exposed to the implementation of the executive procedure in order to collect their claim at the same time. So now that the question is raised, it has often been asked, since the 96th time we first passed the Implementing Law and later through its several amendments and additions, and today in the debate, who should be protected? Debtor or believer? It is necessary to respect the social moment and in this segment should be provided through all laws, including, in the future, the Implementing Law, certain protection to the debtor. However, the executive procedure is not ultimately a social category, it should be made possible for those who could not do so in a peaceful procedure, to force their debtor to collect their dues. No matter who the believer is. The believer is always a certain person who has a particular claim that must now be paid politely. And what is the purpose of all the executive procedures? This is to adopt a system that will be quick, efficient, and where the believer will relatively quickly obtain the payment of that claim. The second question is, in this context, of course, that the implementation of the executive procedure falls within the reform of the judiciary, that is, those measures that we need, which we are obliged to take towards our citizens in order for them to do so. Among the objectives of the judiciary, judicial reform is primarily about removing a large number of cases, discharging courts. Because there really are procedures, there are situations where, although these proceedings are in a broader sense a particular trial, they are not judicial proceedings, there is no principle of contradiction and it is not necessary, there is no need for them to be conducted by courts, on the one hand. On the other hand, that those judicial proceedings which are judicial proceedings should be reduced as much as possible. In this context, we are witnessing that a series of measures are now being implemented in grantshops that show results because these court proceedings really need to remain because of our structure in courts. We've unloaded part of it, leftovers carried out by public notebooks quite successfully. Even so, there are certain difficulties, objections, that they are, that they are too much, that they cost more than they would be in court, so they will be able to think about it. And of course, in this context of the executive procedure, there was, of course, an idea, intended by the proposings in the previous term to make public notes available to the public for the purpose of discharging courts to carry out executive proceedings. However, it has proved to be ambitious, but sometimes it should be both rational and reasonable,... to some realistic measures because this kind of breadth of power that public notebooks would get shows that at this point, that's what I was saying at the outset. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I didn't mean to underestimate public notebooks, I appreciate all my fellow public notaries who were supposed to meet a lot of difficult conditions to be appointed for it. It is shown that they, or their public record offices, are not able to take over at the moment. Why? Because it is said, among other things, that I do not repeat, that not public notebooks but persons employed by them need, in order to carry out these tasks that they take over, these are all, almost all the tasks of the exercise other than the exercise of movement, to meet the conditions that a person needs to be executed in a court, so to meet the conditions for a senior judicial adviser or judicial adviser, it is a completely different profile of the person from those who are currently working in public records offices. Who's supposed to take over? Maybe... why not, the government doesn't run away from it or say eventually that it can't be public notebooks. There are not many examples, and we have been warned by the European Union that public notebooks carry out especially on a larger scale, not as we have proposed to carry out the performance. That's if they're doing it, it's within a very limited range of completely different than what we're proposing now that they just take over. Here, as the example was, there is a particular segment in some countries in public auctions, however, there is no ban on doing so and every country is judging what services it has highly trained to assess which jobs public notebooks will carry out. If we're going to relieve the courts, yes, why not. But then, if you're already... someone else's jobs, that service we're going to trust needs to be trained professionally, able to take over that we don't have one opposite effect. That's why this law is not a status quo, he says until further notice, until we find one better, more quality, more rational solution, let the courts continue to do so. With all these objections that courts are ineffective but trusting someone else, whether it's public notebooks or some other service, I personally don't think that they can do it exactly half-written people need to finish some schools anyway, pass some courses, train themselves to be on... citizens and successfully and quickly spend the performance. In this segment, this Amendment of the Law is a status quo but the Government as we have already said, as we have already said on the working bodies, it is my failure to say that I did not, therefore it is proposed to delete these provisions and not to postpone them because by November at the latest, it will propose amendments and additions to the executive law which will remove certain difficulties that have arisen in the application of legal remedies and postponed and propose in that segment which is possible and which does not really constitute a trial for the affairs of the public notary.... or pardon the courts for the purpose of dispensing courts to take over other services. It is true that this law should be voted on Friday, as it is not, the government has proposed its own amendments to remove this 5-day gap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22278	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Voting when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22279	Second, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments to the Executive Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, Proposal for a Law No. 168. The debate is closed. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the debate. So we'll act in accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure, therefore, shall we vote on whether or not we will accept, discussing two amendments to the Government. Please engage. Please vote. Score. 80 for, four against and 23 abstentions. Four abstentions and 23 against, thank you. Madam Minister, please explain Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22280	I can do it right now, 1st and 2nd, since they're...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22281	No, first you'll have one, because it's being voted and discussed separately.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22282	The provisions of this Act shall apply, in accordance with Article 2a, to proposals for an implementation submitted until the date of entry into force of this Act. This is a purely technical amendment needed since we have already adopted the Law on Consummation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22283	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Only a representative of the club can come forward. I'm closing the debate. Please engage. I am voting on Amendment 1. Government. Score. 93 votes for, four abstentions and 10 against, an amendment accepted and becomes an integral part of the law. Minister for the Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22284	In this amendment, it is important to make the same technical amendment, so Article 3. The proposal for a law amending the Implementing Law proposes that this law enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication in the ‘National Journal’, as Article 1 of the proposed law is deleted from the provisions of the Implementing Law on the participation of notebooks in the performance which are based on Article 106 of the Implementing Law. The Act amending and supplementing the Implementing Law should apply from 1 October then provisions on the entry into force of the Law should be brought into line with the abovementioned amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22285	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please engage. I am voting on Amendment 2. Score. I find that the amendment has been accepted by 84 votes in favour, 8 abstentions and 15 against. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please engage. The vote. Score. I find that with 79 votes for, 3 abstentions and 24 against the law on amendments to the Implementing Law in the text, as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22287	We move to - Final proposal of the Law on the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education, second reading of P.Z. No. 74. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. Discussions were conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Željir Janjic State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22288	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. Here is the Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education in the Second Reading, therefore, in the regular parliamentary procedure. Although under a different name, in the first reading it was called the National Test Centre of Education. Given your quality suggestions, so when it comes to the name of the Law, we accepted your proposal, and in the second reading, I hold that we have a very precise name according to all your suggestions and suggestions. Honorable ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this Act will create legal assumptions for the establishment of a national Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, prescribing its activity and structure and other issues necessary to carry out the activities of the Centre or the external evaluation of education. The external evaluation of education in the Croatian School has not been so many times highlighted the importance of introducing an external evaluation of education and we definitely approach it now and the moment you vote this Law we will create assumptions that the external evaluation into our education system is being introduced and that I would say from the foundation change our education and that the major problems are being solved but we do not have the illusion that the external evaluation of education will create a number of problems and detect those problems that need to be solved. So far, we haven't been able to talk about the comparableity of schools, and we don't have any indication how good the school is. By passing this Law, the establishment of a facility like this will give us the conditions to find out. This will open a process that is desirable to our school not only for schools based on these indicators to be able to correct or improve their work and will be highly motivated for it but will actually open up the ability for schools to self-inflicted and to do everything themselves to make education at their school as much as possible. The final finale should be to raise the quality of education with us. The establishment of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education after the adoption of this Act will be completed by the end of this year and will be ready for the external evaluation of education in the coming year. What goals will we achieve, before I list them, allow me to quote, one representative from last debate in the first reading that said that the education of our high school students in different parts of Croatia is dramatically different. We will achieve more goals with this, and I am sure that these differences will be eliminated. We will establish national standards of student achievement. We will standardise the examination procedures, achieve equal legality of all students in the Republic of Croatia, give higher education and knowledge, better connect secondary and higher education in the perspective of primary and secondary education. We will certainly improve the quality of work of schools, equalise the preparation of students of all schools in the Republic of Croatia, better define the objectives of education, create assumptions for better participation of students and teachers. It will develop the knowledge that success at graduation depends on the work of the students and on their learning and thus actually ensure that the effectiveness of the study is much better. DO NOT speak as we are now saying that only 30 percent of those who enroll in study, study and finish. Of course, we will better prepare students for lifelong learning and adapting to new labour market requirements. What I have to mention here is that during the first reading debate, you said there was definitely something to say about this is the state graduation we announced and that we will prepare to introduce all these preparations will be completed in this school year so that from the beginning of the next school year, all those high school students who enter the first grade 2005. In 2006, he'll count on the state's graduation. We will talk more widely about this when we go with a supplement of the Law on Middle Education, and I will just announce briefly in Article 67. Among other things, the law on secondary education is said to be attended by high school graduates, the final exam is attended by students of professional and artistic schools. Here will be a supplement that will say that the state's graduation will take place, and then we will talk very extensively about the State's graduation project in this high house. Now allow me just a few words. The State Graduation Project, I would say, was launched already in 2003 as part of four projects carried out by the Institute of Social Research and commissioned by the Ministry of Education and Sports. The project was in fact an analysis of the conditions for the introduction of state graduation and that part of the project was completed, the new project of introducing state graduates into the Croatian school system was submitted in early August of the month, the reviewers assessed by the end of August, and after that the competition for 6 scientific recruits was launched and the competition was concluded on September 30th, the election will be completed by the end of this month. It is about 6 scientific recruits who will cover the areas of Croatian language, foreign language, mathematics, nature, social humanities and psychology. Let me just briefly remind you of some solutions that you thought were better, and we are most of your proposals and accepted. In Article 4, we have cited what are the jobs to be done by the Centre and what are the public powers here is now precisely defined. Furthermore, in your good proposals, you said that it should certainly open the possibility that the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education co-operates with others and with the Educational Office, of course, and that was accepted. You felt that the Croatian Parliament should play a greater role in all this, that it should be informed and you requested that the Statute of the Centre be adopted with the consent of the Croatian Parliament, not the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in this final proposal it was accepted. You also asked for a more precise definition of departments and services that would be in the Centre, it was also done. And when it comes to the Governing Council, we have opened up the possibility of the Administrative Council, of course, building upon the proposal of the Minister by making a public call. There were a lot of proposals that referred to the future director of the Centre. We've prescribed general and special conditions this time. We accept your suggestion that the doctorate of science doesn't have to be a condition, but it's not prevented from being. It may occur to a person who meets all the conditions, but to be his handicap, he doesn't have a PhD in science. So, such an option is now open, a highly professional cook, but not an impediment to the possibility of it being more than that. Perhaps it was a little unclear what kind of expert advice it was, whether it was 5 or 6 members, now it's very clear, also on your suggestions to be more external, we accepted it, and now we went to such a solution. So, in addition to what I've mentioned so far, our ambitions are indeed that in this I would say to the development project that the external evaluation of education applies, of course, not only to secondary schools, but also to primary education, and not to the fact that the ambition of including primary education for enrolment in high school is to be defined differently, as is the state's graduation for colleges, to be some form of small graduation, which will be more precisely determined in secondary education. The ambition is also to extend external evaluation to everything called education, which has to do with education throughout the Republic of Croatia, allow illustrations to work only one example to mention, we now have foreign language schools, which are mostly registered as companies and have no control over them. At this point when you send your child to a foreign language school, you have no clear indicators where it will be better mastered by foreign languages and where it will be worse. Given that they are on the market, there will be an open possibility that any foreign language school that considers to be extremely valuable, that it has something to show that it will report to the Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, to ask that those schools value and how much it meets national standards to get accreditation, so that one accreditation will have, and the other one will not, a clear signal to parents where they can enroll their children, or where education will be better quality. I only mentioned one example, we can spread it to everything else. I must also say here that we have not accepted a part of your proposal for a different solution. For example, the issue of "eniqueric office" has been asked, it will be justified since the agency was established by the end of this year and this will refer to higher education. Equally, there were questions, and why this did not include higher education, so on the external evaluation of education. I must say here that according to the Bologna Process, we have an obligation to set up a higher education quality agency, even a secure million euros, and that will also have to be approached, so at this point high education, so it won't be at the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, perhaps in the future. We talked last time about a project that is of national importance. I want to thank you all honestly for making a lot of good suggestions in the past, in the first reading of this law. We have clearly said that these things are really a desirable consensus for all parliamentary parties in the Croatian Parliament. Since we're doing it in good faith, since we know how important it is, I hope we're on our way to accomplish it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22289	Thank you very much to Secretary of State Želimir Janjic. Since the debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, I assume that the rapporteurs want to take the floor. Before I give my word to the board presidents, I welcome to our gallery a group of citizens, I think they're Senj students, so let's welcome them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] President of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22290	Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its meeting of 23 September this year, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed the final proposal for a law on the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education. The Committee and I personally consider, we keep the Law important, we think it is one very, very significant, perhaps the first but significant step in reforming the entire system of our education and creating certain criteria without which this system can be difficult to operate. As Mr. Secretary of State has said, this Law establishes a reliable and objective evaluation of the results of education, including the organisation and implementation of the State Graduation. An independent system of evaluation based on professionalism and ethics will help both students and teachers safely, and will produce stable, very important, very important, positive effects on the activity of students who will actually fix their orientation towards gaining knowledge rather than fighting to collect or collect grades. Then on the effectiveness of schools that take responsibility for the quality of education and the achievement of good positive results. Thirdly, to the functioning of the entire educational system because clear and uniform criteria are defined, standards for each teaching subject worth the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the Law also provides for the public of work, the principle of public work, the Centre as public constitutionals, which also has its responsibility towards the Croatian saobre. If I didn't, I'd just like to mention another very positive shift in the relations between the ministry and the parliament. In fact, before this session began, I found the final bill on my desk, and I sent it to all the members of the Committee asking them to deliver their comments and suggestions. That is what has been done, as you have heard, many of these remarks, the proposals have been accepted. So when the bill in its final version came to the Committee, the debate was practically very much, I would say so harmoniously and a consensus was reached which is really very important and very necessary in these matters and so let's say unanimity, unanimity was achieved. It is among those things, among the proposals that have come from members of the committee, which the legislator has adopted, that is, the fact that the Committee is responding, that is to say, to the Assembly. It seems to me that this is an example of good cooperation between the ministry and the Committee, which allows the debate to be held in a very thorough way and that without some tensions, without haste when these proposals come at the last moment to achieve the best possible results. I say, therefore, that the Committee on Education, Science and Culture unanimously proposes to adopt this Final Bill on the National Centre for External Education, for the evaluation of external education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22291	Thank you very much. What, excuse me, colleague Leko? The Legislative Committee, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22292	Madam Vice President, I have been asked by the chairman of the Committee on Legislatives to state on behalf of the Committee the position of the Committee. At the 19th session held on 28 September this year, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on the National Centre for Higher Education Valuation. The Committee supports the adoption of this Act, but the final text has been made by the Committee to make certain remarks about it and I am behind the speaker. In particular, the Committee proposes that Article 4(2) determine whether it is an implementation or adoption or only a draft plan. Plan. And whoever brings and makes a strategy isn't visible. Furthermore, under subparagraph 10 it is necessary to identify which institutions are involved and which are involved in professional education. In paragraph 3, it is necessary to leave out the indication of subparagraph 17, this is important, for the reasons why public powers cannot be given to carry out other tasks relating to the conduct of national examinations and the external evaluation of education. Of course, public authorities should first refer to subparagraph 9 relating to the conduct of international examinations. In addition, it is necessary to correct the call for points which are not points but for the sub-paragraphs in all the provisions of the proposed Law. In Article 8, leave the unnecessary indication of parts of the internal structure, which is normally governed by the Statute of the institution. It is also necessary to supplement the provisions of Articles 10 and 11 by stating the fundamental obligations of the Director and the Board of Directors' rights and tasks. It shall also indicate an inappropriate statement in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 11 as regards the conditions to be met by the Director of the Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22293	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Committee. We can start a club debate. First is colleague Zeljko Pavlic, Libra, please welcome colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22294	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So let me first take this opportunity to congratulate myself on October 5th today is the World Teacher's Day, so I wish all of our teachers the best, and I want them, first and foremost, not to celebrate their next and next holidays in the circumstances of what they are today. We know that today most teachers, therefore, strike to meet their demands. But let's go back to the law itself. Club LIBRE will support the proposed law, i.e. the establishment of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. As early as the first reading, we cited the main reasons for its adoption, which is the fact that its adoption is based on the December 2002 Assembly's conclusion, which required the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose the establishment of an institution which would be used by the Republic of Croatia to carry out an external evaluation of the educational system including the organisation and implementation of the state graduation. The Club LIBRE will also support this Act because some of our important remarks relating to the accompanying role of the Croatian Parliament have been accepted in the second reading, i.e. his Committee on Education, Science and Culture. This Law also introduces the obligation to bring the Statute of the Centre with the consent of the Croatian Parliament and the obligation for the Centre to report on the results of its work by the Parliamentary Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The Club LIBRE will therefore support the formation of the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education but would also like to warn that by adopting it, only a small part of the problem that we are alerted to today is precisely the strike of educational workers who do so today on the World Teachers' Day on October 5th. Namely, this law that we are adopting today would be high-quality and life-saving should solve some basic problems in our school so that, before applying this law, they have the same educational conditions for achieving results in external evaluation of the success of students and teachers. What does that mean? So this means that, in our opinion, we should equalise all our students and teachers in the conditions in which the educational and educational process takes place, i.e. The minimum educational and pedagogical standard should be adopted and applied. Unfortunately, the minimum educational pedagogical standard in Croatia has not yet been achieved so that on the ground we have schools that are perfectly equipped with all the help while in some schools classes only take place with the help of chalk and boards and often in three shifts. Not to mention, we're only a third of our schools have sports halls and we're 23 students on the computer at the bottom of the European scale. If everyone doesn't have equal conditions for the adoption of knowledge, and they will have unique obligations, the question is, how fair will the system of external education itself be? And we can also ask that question. how fair is the system and the system in which employees of the same employer receive different salaries regardless of having the same professional equipment. Of course, I am referring to legitimate complaints from workers in the education system who today, with their salaries, are lagging even more than 10% in salaries compared to their colleagues in other state institutions and who have the same expertise. Can we, in this way, continue to receive a satisfied and motivated teacher? In response, we can also use information that only about 18% of high school professors and 10% of primary school teachers are used by the computer in the classroom. What we would like to warn you about is that before the Centre's work begins, the process of discharging students should be completed, i.e. bringing in a new knowledge catalogue. Club Libre supports this law and because it also contains some parts of our project “New School” whose goals coincide with some secondary objectives of this law, which are to create equal conditions for all students, better quality knowledge acquisition, promoting child creativity, teaching programs adapted to the interests and preferences of children, full-time learning and so on. Our project “New School” also envisions the evaluation of school work through independent institutions at national level, which is thus also achieved by this law. And one of the conditions for achieving these objectives is to ensure both external and objective monitoring, evaluation of the quality of schools and the functioning of our education system, which would also allow systematic analysis of the causes of success and failure of education. We do not currently have any objective picture of this system, and therefore we do not know which way to go to improve the quality of our education, and we all agree that something needs to be changed. We wander from one announced reform to another, and the situation actually remains the same. For example, in 1997, the primary school completed 52000 students, and after the 4th year of 2001 the same generation of high school completed 48000 students. So that's where we see less than 4,000 students. We have a large number of students who don't graduate from high school. The data continues to tell us that in 2001 some 44,000 students were enrolled, with only about 13800 graduates. All this results from the fact that Croatia is at the very bottom of the European bottom by the number of inhabitants with higher school and college, somewhere around 7%. Our neighboring countries have about 15%. Croatia has only 150,000 inhabitants with higher and 267 000 with higher education. This is not the basis on which we can build our future, so it is vital that we train our education system. Of course, it is an important element of this law and the introduction of a state graduation which would significantly speed up the internal transformation of the school system and permanently improve its quality, so one of the results of the introduction of the state graduation would be a reduced proportion between enrolled and graduated students. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Libre Club will therefore support this law because it supports the establishment of such an institution. It calls for this to be achieved as soon as possible but we point out that its establishment only takes the first step and solves only part of the problem in the school system and that at the same time issues must be resolved, both material and spatial issues in which students and teachers act as a condition for the implementation of external evaluation i.e. the application of this law. I just want to repeat that more than 90% of our school classes take place in two or three shifts and that if we are to introduce a school in one shift, as stated by the minister himself, we must greatly increase investment in education and science. We also repeat that the question of status and the status of teachers and scientists themselves who continue to lag behind their fellow state services even though they have the same expertise. Just to remind you, Libra tried to reroute this year's budget right into the project "New School". The introduction of one-way teaching and equalisation of teachers' salaries but unfortunately our amendments were not accepted. And to finish it, then, Club Libre will accept this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22295	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I think you colleagues and colleagues will all agree that we can congratulate teachers today on World Teachers' Day. We're also sure it's not the only thing teachers expect from us. Thank you very much. The next is for discussion by counterpart Ivanka Roksandić on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22296	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, so here I join these congratulations and can say in the beginning that the adoption of this law is already a small step, but significant in the reform of education and the status of our teachers and professors. At first, I must point out that the HDZ Club will certainly support the adoption of this Law. Finally, here is the Final Proposal for a Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. We must point out that every good remark is as Dr. Selem in the debate at first reading by the motionors accepted and as such incorporated into the Final Proposal of the Law. Everyone will agree that a center like this is really necessary. We're aware that in practice we've never had an institution like this before. Although the Institute of Education has been dealing with the problems of monitoring, improving and developing systems of education, building different analyses of the situation, applying research in the system of education and education but not implementing a system of exactly this external, independent evaluation of the programme, and thus developing a position for students not to learn about the evaluation that was highlighted in our first debate but to acquire knowledge and skills. I must point out that people who are practitioners, which are our teachers, high school teachers, welcome the adoption of this law and the establishment of such an institution because this way, by introducing a unique strategy and methodology in conducting exams and external evaluations in education, will increase the school's responsibility for quality education. These results will allow the school to learn its place on the school scale and take steps to improve the achievement of its students. From the reasons given by the applicant in the final draft of the law, it is well pointed out by all remarks and proposals by the representatives for improvement that have been observed in the first reading of the law. It is important that the final proposal created real conditions for the establishment of an institution, and it is clear from the reasons that the applicant provided that the ministry was planned and needed funds precisely in the period 2005 to 2007 for the employment of employees and for the provision of the premises of this institution. And already for the preparation of the work of this centre the funds are planned in this state budget for this year as well. As is the location assigned to a future facility. After all the relevant remarks and suggestions, the applicant also noted the proposal that the centre on the results of all the work except for the government which is the founder of the institution, reports the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, at least once a year in Article 6. The law is visible. Which certainly points to the importance of this issue. The HDFor advocates' club must have submitted two amendments. The first amendment to Article 4(2) of subparagraph 17 is proposed to be deleted. In accordance with paragraph 3, in order to delete and number 17. And for the reasons that the sub-paragraphs 6 and 7 of that same Article are sufficiently clear to the public authority, it is therefore indeed unconfirmed that this sub-assemblies 17 and are also widely given the possibilities of other public powers. So it could be interpreted differently. The second proposal, i.e. the second amendment, is referred to in Article 8(2) of subparagraph 5, where the name for one of the approved units of this centre is proposed to be the logistics department of the organisation and the conduct of the examinations. We suggest that the word logistics be deleted. Which, in this case, should not stand, because in the words of organisation and implementation, there are also jobs for which the department is set up. And finally, in an explanation, the Proposer states, and I'll quote it. Law-making can produce a number of positive effects, in the educational system, among other things in informing higher education institutions and the labour market on the content of secondary education and competences adopted because the execution clearly describes acquired competences, and knows what is behind the assessment. Improved status of education and knowledge in society. In line with this proposal, I must warn myself that I hope that the ministry will launch other activities to address the improved quality of education, above all already mentioned today by adopting pedagogical standards. As well as the need for specific regulations in cooperation with higher education institutions to establish relations between national graduations and qualifications for enrolment of higher education institutions. The Croatian Democratic Community's club proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of a law on the national centre for the external evaluation of education.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22297	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The following came forward for discussion on behalf of SDP club colleague Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22298	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr Secretary of State, will be assisted by ministers, colleagues and colleagues. According to their own school experience, 29% of students show that often or very četso avoids boring teaching, and almost 1 Thursday and shows more tendency to avoid teaching when Got is possible. A large percentage of our high school girls and high school students who mark and flee from school is an alarming data that calls for action because schools still exist because of students. Although such avoidance behavior may be considered a normal adjustment to often frustrating conditions that students at school are subject to. We have also spent too much time here in the Croatian Parliament and in the public discussing what and how to do in protest without doing almost anything. The position of the SDP was and remains that changes in education should be gradual and should be conceived as a set of concrete measures on which the national consensus exists. And in this sense, the SDP club will support the adoption of this law, the more our club has just proposed in the last term and the Croatian Parliament has adopted a conclusion that obliges the government to propose this law. We have proposed this from the SDP, deeply aware of the need to set up a system of evaluations, because exactly the system of evaluation and the quality of evaluation is a measure for the quality of the entire system. We thought then and today that the introduction of a school evaluation system is a good step which can, for sure and will, encourage other changes in the system because just systematic implementation of the evaluation will give us insight into the right state of things to define the problems and offer the way to solve them. A few concite sentences about the law itself. During the debate in the first reading of the SDpa Club and individual MPs and SDP representatives made numerous remarks to improve certain provisions of the law and the applicant almost fully accepted them. In our first reading, we noted that a very important description of the activities of this future center is. The applicant also fully accepted the SDP proposal, on the need to amend Article 4 of the Law, and better and more precise definition of the activities of the Centre. By accepting this proposal, the centre itself is set up and significantly more ambitious and influential and welcome. But we hope that the Proposer is also aware of the importance of these really major changes. It is also related to the previously accepted proposal to better and more precisely define the centre's design units and bring in a functional link with the employees in order not to have a form without content and vice versa. The first reading also led a lot of discussions about the conditions to be met by the director of the centre. At that time, it was suggested that one of the two conditions for the future director to meet the doctorate of science. We considered this provision unnecessary, and we suggested that the final text prefers the concept of competence to meet some of the more or less justified formal criteria. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is also good that the government has accepted our proposal that the annual report on the work of the centre is submitted to the Croatian Parliament or the competent committee on education science and culture because we consider it to be important topics and results that we hope will have a major impact on the overall school system and its structure. As well as adapting the education system to the labour market and in order to expand the base of interest for education problems and promote the importance of education and its quality. A few sentences on the metrics and future activities of the centre, as this is extremely important. In the SDP, we consider it necessary to define very clearly the concept and importance of external evaluation in education. External evaluation is a set of defined and clear measures and procedures aimed at assessing and assessing the efficiency of the educational process and objectively monitoring the outcome of education. The external evaluation shall be carried out by an institution outside direct educational work and shall be a section of the internal evaluation carried out primarily by pupils and teachers. That is, schools themselves and evaluating their own success. By establishing this centre, we are about to establish an institution that would deal with external evaluation. We consider it necessary and also pointed out that the most famous and popular segment of external evaluation is the national prom is an important element. However, only one element must be developed throughout the system and other external evaluation meetings should therefore be developed. It is therefore good to see both the applicant and the debate in accordance with the right reading only changed the name of the centre and better defined the activities. In this regard, we in the SDP expect that the education ministry will very quickly present the overall development and implementation project of the entire system of external evaluation, so as not to find ourselves within a few months in a situation where we have a formed institution that has no clear plan of what to do and when to do. The more time to stall, the more we do not have, because we are already behind Europe in this area. And any further delay and delay would mean the collapse and further deepening of a gap that is not in Croatia's interest. It is also very important to establish effective cooperation mechanisms for the centre and other public institutions, in particular the Institute of Education, so that data obtained through the evaluation process can be used as an indicator of the necessary changes in the content of the school, i.e. in the curricula and programmes. Because only functional integration of external evaluation systems with other segments of the education system will achieve the desired goal of implementing external evaluations and giving an incentive to introduce innovation into the education system, in managing the system and creating an educational policy. Without this integrated and complex system based on high professionalism and ethics, we will not achieve the desired goal of improving the quality of education and education work, as well as of directing students to the desired goals of education achieved by work and pawning. We also need to be aware of the vote in this law, because the limit between good implementation and hard work is extremely thin, and in particular the poorly designed and executed system of external evaluations can have devastating influences, especially since the purpose of the school is at stake here. Therefore, we should be very careful in making final decisions and warn the ministry and Mr. Minister that it is high time to start dealing with serious matters, especially girlic reform, i.e. the process of national girls being adopted. In this sense, the selected methodology of work for the adoption of girls from the catalogues of knowledge is completely missed, should be done on the contrary, as it is necessary to design the objectives and outcomes of education and levels of competences achieved against our use of knowledge from catalogues without a clear and very precise objective. Knowledge catalogues can only be an effective assistive tool of measurable indicators, but they cannot in any way and must not become a criterion of evaluation. It's just that our legal system in education doesn't know the catalogues of knowledge at all, it's a requirement for teaching programs. Knowledge catalogues can be a bad message if we want to promote competences and desirable levels of cognitive operations and acquired skills. A few words about State's graduation. The state's graduation is written and talked about in public, and because of the closeness and perception of the simplicity of the subject everyone feels about the state's graduation and talk, but contrary to the popular belief that the state's graduation as a magic wand will solve all our problems, the truth is quite the opposite. With the expected positive effects, the introduction of state graduation will generate numerous problems and will cause major earthquakes in school. Therefore, it is necessary to prepare and implement the project of national graduation gradually, respecting the current situation in schools and respecting all the specialities in different parts of Croatia. Because if, and only if the project of introduction of state graduation will be based on relevant scientific projects with respect to the experiences of the countries that have introduced the State Graduation, and if we will, we will view the introduction of state graduation as both a process and a result, the state graduation will ultimately be a good project for the benefit of students and schools, and not just another trauma in the whole system. We in the SDP want to warn and call on the current educational authority to take good care of it. In particular, it is an important way to form the standard of the entire system of state graduation. State graduation must be conceived so that throughout the course of education it directs learning from factography to solving problems and from reproduction to creation. We also have a big job to do to adapt participants and users of the education system, because if only one generation of students are damaged because of the introduction of a state degree, it will be too much. There is much to be done on the development of a emerging instrument that, in the opinion of us from the SDP, must not be imposed from above some council of all-knowing wise men, but must be the result of the work of a new centre with schools and students, and there is much more to be taken into account about state graduation and other projects. One little thing that might not be about this subject. The entire system of evaluation and the establishment of a quality management system will be incomplete unless a system of internal evaluation is established parallel to the external evaluation system, and it would be good if the Ministry of Education prepared the project as well. At the very end of this debate, and on the basis of all that has been said so far in the debate here in plenary, as well as at committee meetings, the SDP Club proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion that the Government would undertake to comply with the obligations set out in Article 86. Laws on the Middle and Article 11 The Law on elementary education offers a pedagogical standard to the Croatian Assembly so that we do not come into a situation where all of our students and pupils at the end of education are questioned and valued by the same indicators, without providing them with the same initial conditions. In different parts of Croatia today, children have different conditions of education, have different opportunities, and today we decide to examine them eventually with the same instrumentaries. It's not fair if we decide today or when we're going to vote to question them eventually with the same instrumentator that we also don't decide to have the same opportunities. I repeat, it is not fair to our children, but I think given what counterpart Roksandić said on behalf of the HDZ Club that there will be no problem with the conclusion unanimously and adoption. Finally, the SDP Club will support the adoption of this law, indicating that we will closely monitor the implementation of certain legal solutions to make sure that the real objectives of improving the quality of education and promoting a new system of work-based values and competences are real. And in the end, colleagues have already mentioned today, World Teachers Day, that on behalf of both SDP and teachers, teachers and teachers, teachers, and teachers, and teachers, but also future educators, I congratulate their day, join their demands for better social and material status, and in some way I tell us that we can vote here the laws of such or such, we can vote projects, we can vote on reforms but the whole story falls or passes on to a teacher who has to be trained to do his job and do the best he can because school is very simple, when the school bell rings close and remain in class teachers with their children. It is therefore necessary to invest in teachers and their education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22299	Thank you very much, colleague. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. He is the first representative of Markovanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22300	Thank you, Madam President. Well, it's incorrect right at the beginning, that we don't do anything for school, and this law proves otherwise. And as for the gradual changes, I realized it for four years nothing, and then four years of pressure when we're no longer in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22301	Thank you very much. Another correction to an incorrect quote. My colleague, Roxandić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22302	Well, dear vice president, I must correct my colleague Lugaric's allegations. We can't accept the assumption that the minister is dealing with unserious matters. He's doing very serious things, colleague Lugaric, and even today's law, I think it's a very serious thing, especially in the process of reforming education.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22303	Thank you very much, colleague, although I do believe that the colleague did not say that the minister was dealing with unserious matters but was continuing to do serious things. Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. HNS club PGS, vice president of the House of Mrs. Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22304	Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This law and the establishment of a centre is a function of improving the quality of education, and from that point of view it should be looked at to what extent it contributes to the basic and fundamental objective and purpose of both this and a series of other laws and measures that should be taken, which is to improve the quality of education. Education is of course always popular before the elections, because everyone is concerned and everyone can somehow have a relationship with it, but otherwise education is considered a soft "soft" topic to be good and necessary, everyone is for, but no one's right to care, no aggressive steps, no great passions, no burning advocates. However, in some environments where the objectives of education already have to be achieved, such as Finland, it is justified, for Croatia at least in the next foreseeable period, education must be the central strategy of our development. It is in Croatia and an instrument of the economic development strategy. We're not going anywhere without education, we're not moving in the development. In a few years when we enter if everything is okay, in the European Union, we will have the only serious chance with high-quality and highly educated people on other markets or segments of the labour market we will not be able to compete at all. Therefore, it is also clear today that the only highly educated labour force from Croatia has competitive competencies on the European market and, as the Irish said in their time, that their strategy is education, education and somewhere has brought them along with some of the smart porn reforms. This is the case for Croatia during this period of the strategy of economic, social and any other development. The strategy of integration into the European environment and European frameworks is education. We're not going anywhere without it. Many times in this House were spoken and those famous figures were mentioned 7.2% highly educated in Croatia, 11.5% high and higher educated, 20% higher and higher educated, European average 30% high and higher education, Finnish average. This law should be considered with two levels, from itself, for the position of purpose, that is, the objective to be achieved by this law. From the level of the law itself, I think we all agreed, there's not much problem. There are three points that, on behalf of the HNS Club, the PGS would like to point out here about one of the articles we have also submitted an amendment, given the law itself, so on the inside. The problem the secretary of state mentioned here and which must be resolved and to which more attention must be paid is the relationship between the State's graduation and this evaluation of education. It is clear that this evaluation of education is, of course, related to the entire course of education, and not only to the end, but there must be an organic logical link between the concept of state graduation and this concept of evaluation of education, these are simply pooled vessels and should be treated in such a way and it would be good to have some legal proposal to link these two segments of educational evaluation in this sense. The second element refers to Article 6 of this Act, which refers to the confidentiality of data relating to persons who are being examined and the results and which states the degree of confidentiality of data and safeguard measures, shall be governed by the Statute of the Centre. This, in our opinion, is not enough, should be brought into line with this provision with the Data Secrecy Act, because it is potentially as sensitive as all those protected by the Data Securitisation Act. And thirdly, Article 8 and, in that respect, the PGS Club has submitted an amendment. Here in the list of jobs the centre and its departments will be involved with, mentioning among other things, the Department of Higher Education Records. It is our opinion that higher education is resolved or should be dealt with at universities of higher and higher education, therefore at the post-medium level and given that this provision is not a place in this law and should be omitted from this law, because it is, of course, logical and obvious that universities, i.e. universities, will define their criteria for enrolment in higher and higher education institutions in accordance with their standards and criteria governing higher education institutions, therefore it is simply the wrong address for this job. But the second, of course, is to fix everything and nothing is a big problem. The second, however, the position from which this law should and may be seen and must be seen, is the position of the purpose and purpose of this law, and the purpose and purpose and the sole purpose of such an institution, i.e. the establishment of such an institution, is to improve the quality of education. From that point of view, this law, or this institution, if you will, is located in an airspace. This is one of the rough estimates of 15 elements of the system measures needed to regulate the quality of education. It's a good measure, it needs such a center, but only one of my own here rough appraisal of 15 measures that are necessary. If it stays like this, it'll be another one of those policy laws, the magazine. We talk nice here in the Parliament and then we put it on the shelf and nothing. There is an even worse possibility, which is that this centre becomes a cover so that it is not further working on improving and controlling the quality of education. Let me just say it harshly. In order to ensure the quality of education, such an institution may be included in an internal or internal system for quality assurance and external or external quality assurance mechanisms. Internal mechanisms are only the evaluation and evaluation of teachers by students, then developing a culture of quality education, evaluation campaign in schools because simply the quality of education and the quality of teacher will be recognized as something that is positive, and not as something that is most often negative because it only brings confusion and new things that were not usual to learn so far, the education of teachers that is directly related to the university and one whole yet series that I do not now enter into a series of measures of internal, therefore internal evaluation of education, and then external mechanisms. This centre is one of the elements in these external evaluation mechanisms of education, i.e. the evaluation of what is the outcome of learning and from that point of view, of course the whole idea of the knowledge catalogue is the last point or the last step in this process, not the first, because what students are learning is the main measure and the main goal of what they are getting in education. That is why we need the National Agency or the Centre for the Implementation of such external evaluation, the National Centre for Improving the Quality of Education, we need to approach education in general and define the objectives of competences, so those abilities that students acquire in the process of education. However, among these quality building mechanisms, the key role plays an increase in school autonomy. We have talked here today and we often mention colleagues and colleagues who talk about it, of course they have the right, we need to bring pedagogical standards, but we here in the Assembly of Pedagogical Standards should bring only through the budget. And pedagogical standards should be defined in professional institutions run by teachers, students and high school professors. They are invited to define pedagogical standards, and in the Assembly we are invited to define the means that we consider necessary to ensure and single out. The second and international and European Union recognises the instrument for improving the quality of education is the social position of teachers. The social position of teachers today is, of course, appropriate to speak of it, since they too have stood up to defend their position, but that is, it is not just a union issue. It's a question of seeing a government society, the social position of a teacher is the way a society says, it's important to us education, it's a priority, it's key, or it says, well, we'll talk about it a little because it's always a convenient one subject, but it's actually marginal. Of course, the top manager should be paid maximum. Because there are few, because it's precious and it brings, it creates wealth. But top teacher, top professor of that, apparently, there's a lot. Of course, each of us knows that a top professor and top teacher is just as rare, as precious, and at least we also need to develop as well as a top manager. And therefore, a top teacher and a top professor without adequate social status, without adequate pay simply won't go into that profession, even when he finishes his profession with whom he can go to the profession he will try to escape from that profession, because it is not socially valued and quality education. Without the secured social status of teachers and teachers in schools, we're not gonna do it. In addition to getting a better quality school, it is clear from the research carried out in all European Union countries that the main, main variable or the main element that has an impact on the quality of knowledge when students leave school is the length of their stay at school. In other words, the Finns and the Canadians who are at the top are, having a stay at school all day and the possibility of learning at school, not just taking new material at school. For such additional obligations we need, of course, the additional time of these teachers, the additional time of those teachers in schools. And in order to ensure that we just have to give them more money. If we believe that this is something that is important for this country, and our opinion is that there are no more important things and there is not particularly in the next 10 years a more effective strategy for the development of Croatia than this. Therefore, the HNS Club of PGS will support this law for symbolic reasons. Because we think it's good to start moving around in the area of quality enhancement and evaluation. But if it stays only on this law at best, there will be nothing, and in the worst case, an alibi will be created to do nothing. So let's not let him stay on this bill, and let's take advantage of what teachers and teachers warn us about today, which our own children warn us about for years at school and bring a number of other measures I've talked about here that this law will do not only with policy law, but also with real school law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22305	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Mr. Željir Janjic reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22306	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, let me just briefly refer to what you said in your debate. In any case, caution is also needed when talking about purpose and goals, of course we accept it. But here, among other things, I have only one little thing to mention, we have also predicted that, among other things, the parliamentary committee is considering the report of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, so the possibility is also open in this high home to actually make comments, proposals based on these reports and that it is actually encouraging all of this which you have rightly warned. The second part I wanted to look back on is the amendment that the Croatian People's Party gives. So it's about your proposal to delete this department for higher education records. We will, of course, consider it. I'm not going to tell you now and I can't stand the attitude, and how we're going to show about this amendment. But let me tell you a little bit. The ambition, of course, is to introduce a state degree to make it easier to enroll in an educational vertice, or to the institutions of a high school institution. It is imagined, therefore, that the committees in question that are actually going to create these questionable questions, I am now starting from the very top that I am not talking about all classes from first to fourth, that they are imagined so that they are made up, a professor from the university, of course these respective committees will be a lot and teachers from high schools and the Institute of Education. Therefore, they will most directly create, i.e. clearly state what is needed in which college as an essential basis for continuing education. If they're going to be the ones who make the most of the decisions, if they're going to create it, then it seems to us that there's probably going to be some colleges that will take this as a substitute for the entrance exam. How much, we don't know at this point. So, but I want to say, if there will be only two colleges of all of us in the Republic of Croatia, then that possibility should still be opened. We don't want to ask the university to do it anyway. We do not conceal that ambition is, but of course it will be their thing and colleges themselves will very clearly say whether he accepts it or not. How technical. So, this department would actually have a job and it's not hard to do that actually all that the student achieves during his education, of course that part will be scored, otherwise he'll learn only for the state's graduation and neglect all this rest. and the basis of the success achieved at the State Graduation would make it very clear what the student did. So, already somewhere in March of the month, the graduate could say what his colleges are, a priority for enrollment, let's say a), b) and c), and then, based on all that data, it could be very easy in this department to calculate and create a ranking list where it would be very clear who was over the line, or who was below the line. So I had to really tell you what the idea was, not prejudge what colleges would do, they're absolutely autonomous about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22307	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Professor Dr. Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22308	Dear Mr. Vice President Baby, colleagues and colleagues. The HSP club decided that its members would vote according to their own conscience under the law. I will personally be against this bill for principled and concrete reasons. It's about one tendency to introduce pedagogical paternalism into our society and it's selective only for schools and high school education, no one dares to touch the autonomy of the university, God forbid someone starts in Ilica some kind of an institution or a centre for the evaluation of knowledge in colleges, so that my students will be rated as the children from the village of Laza in central Slavonia who will be from English, German, mathematics, think they are excellent and then get a good or enough grade here. It's about big things, especially when it comes to kids in elementary school and high school. A few days ago, I was in Switzerland, and people in Croatia don't know that bees in Switzerland can't survive for 15 years. The kid there never saw a bee, never saw honey being made, never being stabbed by a bee and never seeing a hive. The type of knowledge or knowledge that will have to or can be checked by this centre concerns a standartized, uniformed knowledge, they do not test the emotional intelligence of children born in the country who, having some other elements of emotional intelligence and practical knowledge that do not have children who have a chance or think they have the privilege of being educated in large cities. I would also take the opportunity to personally congratulate teachers on behalf of the Club, and this means both teachers and primary schools and high school teachers today and to support them in their request to raise salaries but also by increasing and improving working conditions. It is unserious by the minister to say that he would join the teachers strike, we must not allow such sizophrenic situations to be created where you turn out to be a strike teacher today and a minister and fight for salary increases and for a change in the memorandum of the International Monetary Fund that forces you to reduce wages. The text of the reasoning states that the draft law adopted the proposal by a colleague of Czech Republic and mine as regards the name of the law which was originally the national test centre of education. It is now proposed to have an equally confusing and imprecise name, the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. In fact, I wanted to say that the concept of national in Croatian literary language, less than in 87 or 90% of cases can be translated as a state center, or an earthly centre, and that excessive use of the concept of national confusion for an average person, is behind it a complex traditional and paradigm theory. So it could be some central or state center for evaluation, not education, because it would point to some systematic evaluation of education, but to the education or knowledge of students anyway. So it seems to me here, that we're in front of a big dilemma that's going to be in the perspective of most professions. Modern societies rest on various forms of regulation between human, professional and other relationships. One of the basic aspects of regulation is laws and legal coercion. The difference between a legislative forcing to regulate human relations and professional coercion is that a small number has in modern societies over 60, 70,000 occupations have ambition and the ability to turn into a profession. One of these occupations with priests, doctors, lawyers, notebooks, judges, military officers, could, nurses who are also involved in professional autonomy, and should be teachers and teachers. We're treating them here as the ones we're going to super-evaluate on behalf of the state's higher ground. What is most ridiculous in this proposal, the legislative proposal, I can identify only one concrete implications of this Law, which was presented on page 11 that one house will be built in Ilica or adapted to which about 3.5 million euros will be spent, it is completely undeniable. The issue is in the process of demetropolisation of social and state life in the Republic of Croatia, why is it that the centre or whatever we call it, could not be founded in Varazdin, Zadar, Split, Rijeka, Osijek, why does everything have to be in Zagreb, and in Zabreb, Ilica? Why must everything be reinvested in the account of taxpayers and not used one of the numerous buildings that will remain after the reduction of the military potential of the Republic of Croatia or to give way to the space assigned to the Croatian People's Party in the Street of Prince Mislav from 4-10, which is arranged and could be moved tomorrow. When it comes to specific legal provisions, I will concentrate on several articles. Article 12 which has one embedded error. He talks about the Centre's expert advice, predicting 4 members of which all four must have PhDs in science. I think it's too high and unnecessary. It would be better to determine that one of the members must have a career in primary school regardless of the scientific title, the other in high school. It would be good if the director of the centre were not also the chairman of the expert council but should say that the president of the expert council is not the director of the centre and not as it says now that he is the director of the centre. And finally, when it comes to the establishment of a centre if it is a public institution there is predicted to be the founder of the centre of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it would be more reasonable and closer to our practice to be this High House. The Parliament of the Republic of Croatia should be the founder of that Centre. All in all, I think the consequences of the application of this Law will be additional fear and frustration among students, students, teachers and teachers especially outside major cities. I'll repeat what I said at the beginning. A large part of the people sitting in this High House and the largest number of people watching us right now were educated in smaller places, in villages, in the knowledge we acquired may not have been in the Latin or knowledge of Greek or English, or in German or computer demarcation were adequate, equal or superior to the knowledge given to children in Ilica where this centre or in Kustoshia will be but these knowledge is immeasurable through this center. And we're going to get into a situation where we're going to go to the model of the American Testomony where kids aren't really going to learn how to say it here for more grades, I don't see anything wrong with that, kids need to be given pluralism of school experience, their teachers and teachers need to be deeply bowed down and they need to express their skepticism. And I'm going to recommend a pedagogical lesson, but it would be good for her to listen to it. Article 8 of which lists the tasks to be carried out by the centre has put the service of general affairs and public relations in the first place. I think the general ministry is too focused on public relations. It would be good if, as Ministry of Marine Matulović-Dropulic, less focused on public relations and reformist experiments and focusing on a more serious job, on a long term. In that sense, I say the HSP Club and its members will vote according to conscience, and I will, from the deepest beliefs and faith in all professions, be against this law as it would be unserious to introduce the National Centre for the Valuation of Confessed Pedagogical Measures, which the priests say so and applies to rural and urban teachers and teachers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22309	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Luka Roic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22310	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues so on behalf of the Croatian Peasants' Party, I would like to congratulate teachers and teachers on this payphone their day, unfortunately, to be held on the strike. Instead, I could say that today we are discussing reasons and problems why our children are not in schools with their teachers and teachers, and we are discussing this law. On the other hand, as an HSS officer, I am pleased that we are just discussing this law and that a law has been proposed from the field of education which was basically created in Croatia by the Croatian peasant party from the HSS Minister, a cheerful minister in the former government. The proposed text of the Law on the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education has been amended and updated by the Law on the National Test Centre of Education, which was developed by the former Ministry of Education and Sports, adopted in 2003 by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and sent it to the Croatian Parliament for first reading in view of the proximity of parliamentary elections, the debate and adoption of the proposed Law. The law of the former and current ministry has been reaching the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament since 12 December 2002. The text of an explanation of the reasons why the law is passed is almost the same. With a little cut, and data on the necessary funds have been modified, which is understandable because the circumstances have changed in the meantime. For example, in 2003, a space for the Institute of Education was provided, and thus for the work of the Centre as we heard in Ilica, Zagreb. There is no question of supporting this Law, however, by the HSS, because it is the continuity of school reform procedures, but it should insist on implementing the law provided for by the dynamics. First of all, providing money and hiring experts because otherwise it will be just a dead letter on paper. It should be stressed that countries with developed education systems have similar institutions. In addition, most countries carry out an external evaluation of students' achievements, schools and teachers' achievements. This national examinations shall be carried out in order to determine the quality and effectiveness of education in all individual teaching subjects. Then by organising a state degree to more objectively value the knowledge of future students and to achieve a fairer entry. More than 40 countries in the world are involved in the international evaluation of the achievements of 15-year-old students, etc. “Pisa program” in which Croatia will join in 2006. These forms of external evaluation, together with other forms of monitoring the quality of education, can be achieved by the projected Centre which, above all, is a professional and scientific institution independent of any influence of any kind, and an institution which connects itself with other similar in the world, which would allow the Croatian education system to compare activities in creating a European educational space and allow for a better evaluation of education policy. It is realistic to expect the europeanisation of Croatian education that will help both this law and the envisaged National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. Because of all this HSS will support the proposal of this law as a law of continuity because, as I said among other things, our party and its resolute minister in the past government participated in creating a system of education for our children. The HSS Club will therefore support the adoption of this law, expressing support for all those who advocate better education for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22311	Thank you very much. We would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 207, it is time to report a debate of 10 minutes. At 12.48. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and DC, Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22312	Mr. Vice-President, State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, 15 years ago, at a time of black totalitarianism, one state realized that there was a relationship that was a causal effect between raising the value of human capital and raising social values. Some 10 years ago, a transition state not far from us also realized that investment in the value of human capital is actually an investment in national well-being. None of these two countries are called Croatia, unfortunately, either first or second. The first country to live in the totalitarian social order by many who are not yet referred to today is China, which you imagine on the central committee's triumph, has decided that in the first 10 world universities in top ten students there should be at least 4 Chinese. And within 10 years, they've accomplished it. In 1993, Slovenia adopted the education strategy by consensus again in Parliament and claimed that there was a direct link between investment in human capital and raising the gross domestic product started to develop an education strategy. Croatia unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, no matter who rules, who is prime minister over the past 15 years has almost done nothing. In fact, I don't think we've all figured out what education really is and how education really needs to be evaluated. Noting the example of China and Slovenia, I just wanted to say that it is not enough for ladies and gentlemen to evaluate students by agreeing with their fellow Letica that this will cause or that it could cause an unprecedented testomony and great pressure on children's heads, it is not enough to value only students. It's not enough to value a teacher. It's not enough to value a school. It is necessary to evaluate the national education system, and not ultimately, to actually evaluate our own position, the average attitude of a citizen towards education. That our average attitudes are such that we consider education to be the most frequent spending of social money, that education is most often considered and that in practice, unfortunately, we show it as something that is so necessarily evil, but which doesn't deserve better material and social status, it also shows today's warning strike. This is also evident from the many strikes that took place for the former governments and for the previous ones. It shows the constant dissatisfaction of our teachers. There is no dispute about the need to pass this law and the need to establish a centre that would deal with external evaluations of education. And when we took the nomotechnically legislative rule of this law, then I'd say there's almost no objection to it. We're looking at the administrative issue of an almost perfect law that I think is a detailed and well-established way of regulating this area. But it's something else. How well - measured the law can fit into a system that is unfortunately chaotic and which unfortunately does not exist. I'm afraid he could cause more damage than good. TO ACTUALLY challenge the system, destroy the system, and perhaps if we could find one good feature or good effect then we can say that it will certainly show all the weak spots of the entire educational system in Croatia. For the sake of caution, I think a metaphorical sentence, it's like having a good one and a grace in some sport, but it can't fit into the system, so it can't play with others on the team. I'm so afraid it'll be with this law. He will determine how to evaluate the student, how to evaluate teachers, how to evaluate schools but practically does not determine how we will evaluate the entire education system, and does not determine how we will see the effects of the implementation of this law. When it comes to self-evaluation, I think it is necessary, above all, to point out what will be evaluated. I think all those who have so far said that the majority of knowledge will be valued, that the law of reality causes or at least encourages the possibility of an unsuspecting testemania. I'd say even one evaluative totalitarianism, that the law will actually force the doings of constant evaluation, as well as teachers. But that it will not practically value everything that a student must gain in school as a competence or anything that he can acquire in order to say that he has successfully completed a given year. A certain share of the elementary school. Or that he got a degree. For example, it is symptomatic to say here in Article 4 that it plans to examine therefore educational measurement and external examination of knowledge, skills and other competences. It is very important to say that, unfortunately, the Croatian school most often used mechanically to memorize data in which it is more and more focused on facts rather than skills acquired, mostly practical social skills, I am afraid that the skills and other competences will not be measured. Which, in the end, if you want, can be read exactly in Article 7 in which it does not appear anywhere that there is any department, that there is any administrative body or body that will be involved in the examination of skills and other competences. We all know, ladies and gentlemen, that's what many businessmen have told you about, that one of the basic disadvantages of Croatian schooling is, that's what we have, perhaps, the most average educational children in general culture, who almost know everything about everything, but they don't have any necessary practical skills. We have finished students today who come, so they've finished their profession, they've got their calling, when they get a certain occupation, when they're taking care of work and show their practical skills, then we practically realize that they're not qualified to compete with any of them. Therefore, the secretary of state should measure the skills and other competences. It's not just about getting knowledge, we kids don't just learn to know as much as possible, to be encyclopaedically educated, but first of all we have to teach them to be practically trained to apply those skills. That's why I think you should think about it. And secondly, what can't be interpreted from the text of the bill is what they serve and what the purpose of the evaluation is. Because we need to know what we want to value. Is the purpose of being worthy of a student and a teacher in this, and since then, of course, depends or may be the subject of the overall philosophy of education in this country. If we want the student to be happy at the end of the educational path, we want him to be competent, whether we want him to be self-qualified. We just want him to be able to get a job, if we want him to get some social skills. We want it all together. If we want all of this together, I think that should be our goal not only to keep the student as much as possible, but to be a happy person. That's what we call qualifications that can hire him or that can continue him in further education. Make him comfortable at school. Let's not, for example, be exposed to excessive testamania. It's a constant approach to the value of knowledge. If we want all this, then I'm afraid we're not going to do it with this kind of evaluation that we can read in this law. What's important, though, is that if we look at the social purpose of passing this law, then we should say that each evaluation is related to two concepts. Motivation and competition. If we take motivation, we need to ask ourselves what will actually be the motivation of students and teachers to value what will be the motivation of schools to be valued. Ladies and gentlemen, you know what's going to happen. We're going to evaluate the students. We're going to be evaluating teachers. And then what's the point of value? In such a system where it plays likeness, where it's more important, it makes itself, where it's more important where you come from, where it's more important that you have the best man's family connections in your positions, the value doesn't make much sense. We're just going to expose the children to a sensitive age, a constant stress that will only then appear to be trauma when they realize that all of this really didn't mean much to them. Of course it's not something I don't put on someone else's secretary of state and the ministry, it's ladies and gentlemen the attitude of all of us to education. No matter what political party we're falling into, and it's in the best interest of what our idelologies are like. We all have to advocate that such phenomena are no longer in society, because then the intriguing motivation of every student and teacher and even this extraordinary motivation makes no sense. And secondly, Croatia and the Croatian education system because of part of the reasons that I cited the existence of a similarity of nepotism-bound employment, there is a sick lack of competition. The basic concept of today's American education system is competition. That's where kids go to school because they play and compete. If we don't want state secretaries, we get this, that schools compete to compete with each other, that es teachers and children compete in one game. Not in some sick competition where everyone will want to reach a certain level that we have set, but on one playing competition, about one of the joys of schooling. If we do not, then, achieve that competitive spirit, practical evaluation will not mean much to us. Only when we are in this competition and evaluate the teachers who are in this game, in this student competition will they achieve better results, only when schools that achieve better results will they get more from the budget than those schools that achieve poor results, only when the teacher who, for example, is here as my Varazdin teachers, who seem to have won 20 music awards in the music competition 18, will have adequate pay and will be adequately evaluated for it. If the children and the whole school are to be valued, then it will make sense to talk about the value. Otherwise, that evaluation won't make much sense because in the end, we're going to even it all up in the uranium hunt, everyone's going to get the same thing, the kids are going to be demoted, and teachers are going to be demoted. Finally, the HSLS and DC Club will support the adoption of this law. We believe that it is necessary to evaluate, but once again, the entire education system by asking nicely the Ministry of Education to think quickly and to submit an education strategy to the Assembly in order to know what we really want with our education system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22313	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first was Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. ... He's losing his right to debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Antun Vujic, please. He's not here either. Mr. Nikola Vuljanic. He's also losing his right to debate at this point. Mrs. Danira Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22314	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Also in the debate on the Bill's proposal in the first reading, most MPs made a positive statement about the idea and concept that the government represents in the adoption of this law. We can say that we are going to meet positive examples and European examples and experiences on external evaluations of education and education. I therefore believe that although the proposal for a law of 17 articles can be seen as a relatively small law, by discussing the proposal for a law on the national external education centre, we are largely ensuring and enabling the improvement of the quality of the Croatian education system as a whole. Equal criteria of the study achieve exactly the same conditions for all students and enable direct comparison of data, data that will give us a real picture of knowledge, not only of students, but also of schools from which they come. Therefore, external evaluation will provide diagnostic and formal information that will enable educational policy makers, school directors, teachers, the public to have reasoned discussions and lay the basis for planning development and improving school work. From this proposal of the law, I read the preparedness for the Ministry of Science, Education and Sport, headed by Minister Primorac and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to deal with reforms and the necessary structural changes of the Croatian education system. We are simply trying to catch the connection also to our children, teachers, teachers, parents, and consequently to the Croatian economy and society as a whole to offer quality, and of course to catch the connection with the modern society of advanced technologies. In that I see all the truth and the meaning of this final bill. Although this is the final draft of the law, allow me one small remark. In view of the fact that Article 4(2) speaks of scientific research as one of the tasks of the National Centre, I believe it is necessary in Article 5. The final bill changes the sentence in which it is said that the centre can co-operate with scientific and educational institutions, the Institute of Education of the Republic of Croatia, and other related institutions, natural and legal persons. I suggest that the word "can" be thrown out, because this means that the centre can and does not have to cooperate with other scientific and educational institutions, respecting the autonomy of the centre's activities, but also the need to apply the latest scientific and professional knowledge from the field of measurement, education of the external evaluation of knowledge, skills and other competences. According to this article, Article 5 would then point out: the Centre cooperates with scientific and educational institutions, the Institute of Education of the Republic of Croatia, and other related institutions, natural and legal persons. I put up with it in the form of an amendment. Dear colleagues and colleagues, one of the quality criteria of national education systems in the European Union countries and other developed countries of the world, such as the United States, is just an optimal and high-quality system of external evaluation of the education system. Our choice is quality in this respect and I welcome and support the adoption of legislation on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22315	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22316	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President, I listened carefully to Mr. Secretary of State today when he explained the reasons, motives and the need to establish a national centre for the external evaluation of education, and in his introduction he gave several assessments of the problems that exist today in education in Croatia. Among other things, it was said that by setting up this centre and its functioning, it would become a condition for us to solve the problems of our education from the foundation, that at this moment we do not have an indication of the quality of education, that this approach and this centre of school would motivate for better work, and that the finals of everything should be to raise the quality of education. It has also been found that there are many differences in education, in quality of course in certain regions or areas, in order for this centre to be in a position to give a higher level of knowledge and education, better participation of students and teachers, and as a finale of just one of the previous steps to the introduction of state graduation. We are discussing this topic today quite accidentally on Teacher's Day, but it is certainly not quite an accident that on this very Teacher's Day, and when we are conducting this debate, in the Croatian education system, from primary, secondary to higher schools, there is an ongoing strike initiated and partly the same or similar assessments of the situation in the education system and what has been publicly said so far, and in an explanation of why this national centre, some of these findings or mechanisms, should be the one to remove these problems. So let me remind you of where this consistent assessment exists and where we all expect together that the introduction of a national centre could or should contribute to removing the problem. Just as the introduction said, and in several discussions, namely 12 points of the common finding, I will look back only to six. We haven't had a pedagogical standard in primary and secondary education for years. It has been also said that if a pedagogical standard does not exist at national level, is it possible to introduce a uniform system of evaluation and evaluation of work, if each entity in the educational process works according to its standards or works beyond standards, or without standards. Another common assessment is that so far there has been insufficient concerns of the state about the quality of teaching, and what is particularly important is that there are no material incentives for better quality work. This centre will not help solve this problem to create conditions for material promotion and rewarding the quality work of people who lead education processes. The third finding is that there is a lack of personnel in Croatia per region and per subject. In this respect, this centre can also be only in the function of consulting the ministry as one of its responsibilities and activities is foreseen. It is further warned that the existing regulations that speak about the evaluation of the work of people who are involved in education, and that is the Collective Treaty on Science is not respected and not implemented even though it is in force. So now we are also talking about an existing regulation that should contribute to better quality work. Furthermore, there have been major changes within a few months on the right to return to VAT in the purchase of scientific equipment. If scientific equipment is not in the function of improving the quality of work and the ability to compete in results, then probably we are talking about different systems. And on the last, there are no more serious and thoughtful reforms, which is why there is no adequate funding for all three subsystems. So we finally came up with money that doesn't follow and these efforts or ideas that should lead to a public institution that will evaluate the work of teaching staff, as well as those acquired knowledge and skills of the students themselves. Based on these dissatisfactions brought out by people who are in education in Croatia today, so I presented their assessment of the problem and I said half of it is consistent with what we heard this morning and in the introduction, demands are being made and what should be dealt with in order. The radical shift of the authorities in relation to the activities of education, quality control, the removal of the lack of personnel and increased funding. This first and second, we will probably all immediately and the Secretary of State and myself and everyone in this Chamber will agree that it is necessary and possible. They'd probably discuss with money whether these projects need more money or not. Second request, radically change the attitude towards people in education and science. In particular, they warn that one of the problems that demotes better work and staying in the profession and service is the unresolved issue of resolving and meeting housing needs. That's what we've been talking about for years. Protecting public education as a public good available to all citizens. This requirement clearly requires that the ease of commercialisation and the flow of public goods and these public activities can be extremely dangerous if we know that most of the population does not today have the opportunity to finance their children's primary or secondary education from their pockets and I also support that the quality of public education must be at the same level that is offered if it goes on a commercial basis. Furthermore, the appropriate and responsible functioning of the ministry and the creation of an educational policy as well as the policy attitude towards education. If today's debate on Teachers' Day, and the introduction or establishment of this centre, at least at these consensual points, is possible for the continuation of negotiations and joint construction of the overall education system, regardless of the current strike and the fact that they continue anywhere, I will be pleased that they have also offered you, in the executive authority and in the legislative system, that we are not discussing the quality of education only when we realize that there should be pedagogical standards, only when we propose the establishment of new institutions or institutions, or methods of evaluations, but rather jointly try this debate in a way, or at a time and at a time when there is a state budget and talks on whether we will single out 3.8 4.5 or 5.2% of gross social products for education. At that time, it would probably be a strong argument for all these State Secretary assessments of the state and needs of the education system in Croatia to focus as much money as possible on these activities together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22317	Thank you very much. Ms. Representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22318	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. In creating an educational policy in the Republic of Croatia, the final draft law on the National Centre for External Evaluation fills the gap so far. The state of the national system that would ensure objective evaluation of the results of the education process is necessary to improve education in Croatian education. The proposed law will allow for the development of models of evaluation of students' knowledge and skills as well as the success of educational and educational institutions. Professionalism and ethics through an independent system of evaluation can certainly help students achieve their own goals of education, including national prom. Teachers support the adoption of this law and the establishment of an institution where, through a unique methodology in conducting exams and external evaluations, the responsibility of the school for better quality education, rather than practical learning for evaluation, will be increased. As a result, the proposed law, which I support, will create normative, professional and technical opportunities, on the basis of which an institution will be established to carry out an external evaluation of education as well as to conduct a state degree. The founder of the centre is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the centre has the necessary independence, and the purpose is to improve the school system while raising the quality of knowledge, test culture and equality of all students. In Article 11, which speaks on the terms of the Director of the Centre with a high level of expertise and at least 10 years of working experience in education, I believe that the active knowledge of one foreign language in speech and letter is sufficient and would not narrow down the choice but would open up a greater choice for the Director to choose. In addition, Article 12 sets out the expert advice as the expert body of the centre, consisting of the director of the centre and four members who must have a PhD in science. I also support the amendments of the Croatian Democratic Community Club to Articles 8 and 4. Therefore, by supporting the adoption of the proposed law and with a view to the even development of the Republic of Croatia, I believe that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, within the scope of the Croatian State, will propose to adopt a pedagogical standard and it is up to us to provide Croatian teachers with the conditions in which they will be able to fulfil all the tasks that will be put before them. Just passing this law is one step in resolving the teacher's demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22319	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Ms. Representative Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22320	Dear Mr. Vice President, although I agree with most of what my colleague Byte said, I think we should clear up at least two things here. First, this law will allow students to pursue among other objectives of education. That would be fine if we had defined education goals that we don't have at the moment. When I spoke on behalf of the club and said it would be, that it was finally time for the ministry and the minister to start dealing with serious things, that's exactly what I thought was to define and bring in a new national girl. And secondly, at the end of the day, when you said that teachers need to be provided with conditions and that we're doing it with this law probably, that was the reason for today's strike. These conditions to teachers and what they are looking for will be ensured in the adoption of the state budget, among other things, for the next school year, and I hope that in a similar way we will discuss in the implementation of the budget when we see that in the first six months of this year we have not invested a single drop in the permanent training of teachers and not a single drop in school equipment equipment, which is exactly what teachers were looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22321	Thank you. Replication response, Mrs. Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22322	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am pleased that most of us MPs, and so do my colleague and I agree on the adoption of this law and that we will both raise our hands for him. However, just in the requirements that we received from teachers regarding their current strike, we have one of the thesis, a mechanism to control the quality of the educational process, etc. which is exactly the adoption of this law, so I said it was on the trail of a teacher's fulfillment request. And when a colleague mentioned finances, unfortunately the collective contract signed by the former government in 2001, and according to which the regress was not paid, and about 200 million kunas are in progress in charge of the ministry, so unfortunately, there are also Christmases and jubilee awards that are also not paid, that is 30 new millions of kunas now being paid during this and the following years that are ahead, which make it impossible for us to meet everything we want in school right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22323	Thank you very much. Mr. Agent Ante Markov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22324	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow secretary of state, a colleague and a colleague. First of all, congratulations to all the teachers on their day and my support for all those efforts that go to those in charge to convey knowledge and their status. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education and I welcome this final proposal. I don't come forward here as much as most parliamentary representatives, but mostly as a parent, because here, when we're in that role and above all, we're interested in our children, but also in society, and also in everything that means knowledge to create here everything that's good for our children, and what's good for our children, it's certainly good for society. By reading this final draft of the law, I believe that the external evaluation of educational achievements truly ensures more objective monitoring of educational outcomes than internal evaluations and evaluations that are common in our schools and which are conducted by the same teachers who are also teaching students. In the last ten years, students who unfortunately are learning more and more about grades and less about really gaining knowledge have been often spoken of. The flood is characterized by knowledge that is sometimes suspected by justification. In the competition of honourors, often unfairly deprived students from schools who have significantly higher evaluation criteria and a more extensive lecture programme and where an excellent rating truly guarantees students' knowledge of the grade excellent. The normative way of estimating has won over the content, precisely the reason why this National Centre is being introduced lies right in that fact. The idea of the National Centre for External Valuation has been present for many years and is not unknown that the government has passed and above all Minister of Education and Sports Mr Vladimir Strugar has repeatedly initiated this idea and I think it is good, although it is not a common case, that both in Parliament and in the context of opposition and opposition we agree that good ideas and that it is good to continue with good work where it cares. This is one of those bill proposals in which there is obviously no doubt that it is well initiated, the idea really generally accepted by consensus and here is pure pleasure and to discuss such proposals of laws that are affirmative and do not cause duplication. In the assessment of the situation, it is clear that no external evaluation models have been developed in Croatia, that there is no state-level expert scientific institution that would be responsible for implementing the external evaluation and harmonisation of Croatia and European standards. I believe that the law will provoke positive effects at several levels, and I will mention three that I consider to be the most visible. First, students will be motivated to, in addition to advocacy to get good grades and to adopt certain material quality, so knowledge should be increased, and knowledge really means power. Secondly, the effectiveness of education will be increased by defining the new curricula and the programme that is the starting point for all activities. Third, the centre will contribute to the gradual change and harmonisation of the Croatian and European education models. Institutions dealing with external evaluations are part of an educational system in many countries, and the state exam is part of a century-old tradition such as England, Finland and the like. countries, and central national test centres exist in many other European countries. The independent evaluation system should be based on high and professional and ethical, and can undoubtedly help all subjects in the educational process. In this regard, I must stress one discrepancies in Articles 11 and 12. In accordance with Article 11, the conditions for the Director of the Centre shall be laid down where the Director must be required to have high professional training while the Centre’s expert advice is discussed in Article 12. The Centre's expert advice has a president and four members. The members of the expert council must have a PhD in science, and the president of the expert council of the centre is scheduled to be the director of a centre for which it is not prescribed to have a PhD in science. Given the complex tasks and special conditions, I think it would be logical, and also necessary because of the authority of the future director of the centre that the law determines that the director should be a doctor of science. With the comments mentioned objectively, I believe that this law should be supported and I hope that, in the near future, our children and children, together with children from more than 40 countries of the world, will be included in so-called. "PIS" programme, which means international evaluation. This would enable them to set up the mentioned center, and we should make sure that it functions and functions in quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22325	Thank you very much. Here's a few more MPs, an MP, and with that, I don't know where Mrs. Ingrid is. She answered. Let's get this over with, with this agenda item or we can start at 15.00 hours with Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. I mean, time's up at 1:30, so I'm talking, so we'd better close the session, start at 15.00. The first is Mrs Anticevic's turn, and then a representative of the promoter for the final word. We continue, ladies and gentlemen, to continue with this item of the agenda and as last in the debate, Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22327	Thank you, Mr. President. There's another government official, and I welcome him too, my colleagues and my colleagues. As the entire SDP Club supports the adoption of this final proposal for a law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, so do I. And I think that here in the Croatian Parliament today there is an absolute consensus on the need to adopt such an institution and, in the end, it is quite right in the explanation that an independent system of evaluation, based on high professionalism and ethics, can help all subjects in the educational and educational process. First of all, students and teachers, just to focus, to focus themselves on the desired goals of education and to try to achieve them by their own work and pawnage. I don't think there's anything to object to. However, this institution itself, which will therefore be responsible for creating this single mechanism objectively, is also conducting an objective process of estimating knowledge and helping teachers. What teachers today? Teachers, teachers who, behold, in Croatia celebrate their day on this day. Today is supposed to be a happy day, both for teachers and for students. Today, however, it is not a happy day for them. And we here, perhaps in opposition, would be completely irresponsible if we were to rejoice right now, behold, to such a failure and strike of teachers who instead of today to celebrate, they were forced to strike. I don't think a lot of people would agree with what they're essentially teachers are looking for, and they're asking for this tomorrow, and this task can be done properly. However, they are suing the country's lack of care about the quality of public education against encouraging private schools for the rich, and they also say about politicians. There's a shortage of personnel in regions and by objects. The state pedagogical standard is still lagging out. That is why the SDP Club has also proposed a conclusion that the government is obliged to propose a pedagogical standard to the Croatian Parliament within 6 months, in accordance with the Law on primary education and the Law on secondary education. The trade unions say that we absolutely agree, that they are being stopped or that half reforms are being carried out. And then again, this one institution that we're establishing by this law is just going to be a mere letter on paper again. It's unconvincing to support and return our scientists from abroad, and that's what we want to encourage right now, including this institution. Well, two months ago, the director of our most significant, most respected scientific institution, Dr. Marcella, announces his resignation because he says, without politics, there's absolutely nothing I can do. Look, these are the things that need to be caused by all of us serious concerns. It's inconclusive, she says, and that's all there is to talk about, but there's too little investment in new schools in university campuses. Teachers aren't looking for anything that's impossible. What is needed, and ultimately, both Mr. Minister and Prime Minister have repeatedly stated that science and education are at the very top of the list of priorities. Even an ad has been published in media where Croatia is being propagated as a country of knowledge. And here, while you spin that still promotional office situation is completely reversed. It is quite understandable that the government cannot have 10 priorities. He can't even make five priorities. One, two, no more than three. However, anything we discuss, any resolution and the sector is said to be the government's priority. And what does Minister Primorac do? It's easy not to believe the eyes when you see the headline in the paper that he's about to join the strikers. He who is responsible for all of this, these shortcomings would be removed in order to implement the reform mechanism. Maybe when he realized that he was actually supposed to resign, if he didn't have government support, then he got a little aeral. We've already seen that from today's statements. What will be referred to the students is certainly well imagined by this bill. To encourage students, that their final knowledge will be objectively valorized. Even then if he's somewhere, he can be during school, he's been damaged. But why this excellence? Why those pointless fives when there's no talking about estimating excellence for employment in government institutions? They're accepted because they say grades aren't the only criteria. Then what's the only criterion? A similarity, that's what we were talking about. So, what's the point of all this? What do we need knowledge for? And if we've discovered some new criteria where it's not excellence, where it's not excellence, then it might be that we would encourage world corporations that just valorize it. We may teach them that there are other criteria that are much more important, as the government is practicing in its resources. So what's the message for young people? You're learning, and practice is completely different. We don't need great ones. Why? Because they might be too good for those institutions. Is that a message? I think we should seriously imagine ourselves all of us, and most of them the proponents, therefore, the government that is here and this example shows that there are excess words, and the lack of works.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22328	Thank you very much. Now state, uh, correction of an incorrect quote. Excuse me. Mr. Velimir Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22329	Well, just for the record, let's not get into the record of what Mrs. Anticevic said in her famous windy style. The minister didn't aerate, but he did, you probably thought he was a retard.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22330	Thank you very much. Finally, the proposing representative, State Secretary Mr. Željir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22331	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. First of all, I want to thank you all honestly for this debate. I want to thank you for supporting this law. Equally on the amendments you have submitted, we will consider them tomorrow, and we will declare them tomorrow. There is no reason not to accept the amendments, just as we have accepted the suggestions you made in the first reading, if they lead to the revision of the text of this Law. Let me look very briefly at what is said. I was just saying that we have no illusions that this facility that we're about to establish is going to solve all the problems in school. A part of the problem certainly does, but it will open up a number of problems, or find them, that is certain. We are aware of everything that has long been done and not yet been created and the solution to these problems needs to be approached. The biggest mistake would be not to start from nothing but to solve in this system of education only current jobs, so we have to turn to some projects that will start solving the problems that have accumulated. Of course, we are aware of the need to adopt a pedagogical standard, where fortunately it was brought three or four years ago, we know what that means, but it really is necessary. I hope that this House of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be able to access and we also know that before us and solving problems such as the issue of the network of schools, I would dare say the network of programmes to be as rational as possible, that we are facing the same reform of vocational education, that we need greater separations for education from gross social products, but the fact is that today we are saying about this law that we all agreed on that we should do so, that's what you said in this higher home, that's what the Ministry suggested, that's what the trade unions themselves said before today. Here, speaking of the law itself, the question of ethics, I want to make it clear here that perhaps the best solution was that such an independent institution was founded by a natural person, however, we must start from being a small country with not so many inhabitants and that we should probably wait many years for such an initiative to occur, so the best solution is whether it is the Republic of Croatia, the founder, and the founding rights are exercised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that we are establishing this institution that will be independent of the Ministry itself, we will try from the very beginning to lay it on the best foundations. Let us only use one example to illustrate the approach and the kind of institution we want. In the course of the science project application, state graduates, you know that the project manager could have proposed to the Ministry of Science recruits who would be hired. For these very reasons, however, it was not a solution but a tender was called, 452 candidates appeared, they immediately received only evaluation questionnaires and after seeing them 212 gave up and these others would be invited to interviews and certain tests so that we would really get the best. That is what we would like to say at the very beginning that this will be approached in the best possible way. I hope that you too will follow the work of this institution through the Parliamentary Committee on Education, Science and Culture that you yourselves have proposed, that you will be able to make your proposals if you consider it necessary to improve the work of this institution. In that belief, I would like to thank you once again at the end of this debate with the promise that we will consider all amendments submitted and those leading to better solutions certainly. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22332	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22333	Final proposal of the Law on the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education, second reading of the Proposal for a Law No. 74. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by MP Vesna Pusic, representative Ante Markov and the HDZ Representatives' Club. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to make a statement on the amendments, first we're going in a row. Amendment of MP Vesna Pusic, please, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22334	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. This amendment is accepted by the Government. I just want to say for a little while, of course, there are other ways that some colleges accept the state's graduation as a substitute for the entrance exam, so that you might not think that we're getting into some segment of university autonomy, we accept this amendment for these reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22335	Thank you. The amendment has been accepted and becomes part of the law. 2nd Amendment of Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22336	The amendment of the respected representative Markov cannot be accepted for the reason that in the first parliamentary debate it was very clear that the doctorate of science and the director may indeed be restrictive and this solution that we have now offered to be VII. We believe that we have met these requirements. Thus, the possibility is not closed if under the same conditions all other conditions have to be accepted by the Director and the Doctor of Science. Therefore, we have not closed down such a possibility and, for these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22337	Thank you. Since the amendment does not have an amendment, we must vote. Come on, come on, come on, come on, To vote. The result? I find that the amendment has not passed because it voted for 20, 7 abstentions and 81 against it. And the third amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club. First Amendment 1. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22338	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Amendment 1 of the HDZ Club Representatives, the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts in part. Therefore, the first part of the second subparagraph of paragraph 17 is deleted because the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education should also carry out other tasks that are related to this but we accept this second part to be deleted in paragraph 3. 17 because this should not be public authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22339	The Proposer agrees with this act of acceptance of the amendment. It becomes an integral part of the law adopted in that part. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22340	Amendment 2. The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22341	Thank you. It becomes part of the law. Amendment by representative Danira Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22342	The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts this amendment. We accept the possibility to delete "can" and that this institution should cooperate with other institutions or public services, and we believe that this is acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22343	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. And there is still an amendment by the HDZ Representatives' Club to delete the "two foreign languages" in Article 11(2). You should put "one foreign language."
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22344	The Government of the Republic of Croatia also accepts this amendment. This will not prevent the possibility if two candidates are registered on equal terms, the possibility of receiving a candidate who knows two languages and not one language is open, so this amendment is acceptable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22345	Thank you, Secretary of State. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please come in. Score. I find 101 votes for, 5 abstentions and 2 against the Law adopted on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. We also have one proposal for the conclusion of the SDP Representatives Club, which reads: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to propose a pedagogical standard to the Croatian Parliament within six months in accordance with the provisions of Article 11. The basic school law and the provisions of Article 86 shall apply. High school law. Please, Secretary of State, be clear on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22347	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot accept this conclusion but I must inform you that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is working on this document. I am responsible here to say that the draft pedagogical standard for secondary education is in line with Article 86. The law on secondary education has already been prepared, that we will discuss it and that the draft pedagogical standard for primary education is under way. For these reasons, we couldn't commit on a deadline. Of course we'll do everything we can to get that document here as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22348	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22349	Your Honor, Mr. President, the SDP Club has proposed this conclusion in accordance with its position as well as the position of all the clubs that have been discussing here. In fact, we felt completely wrong that at the end of school all students were being questioned by one exam without starting to have certain conditions. The obligation to adopt a pedagogical standard is an obligation to bring it to the Croatian Parliament and, in that sense, our responsibility, and especially because of what the secretary of state has said if they are really preparing, we do not really see why they would not vote on this conclusion, and in that sense we remain in favour of this conclusion. And I repeat again, it was the request of all clubs during the debate at the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22350	Thank you. Please come in. To vote. The result? I find that 37, 1 was abstentioned and 70 against the conclusion. So he didn't get the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22351	We move to agenda 44 - Proposal for a decision to declare "National Day Against Violence Against Women". The motion for a decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have accepted the proposal into the boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this Decision. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Here you go, Vice President and Minister Mrs Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22352	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I'm glad to be back with you, and I welcome you, and in short, with a few of the freshest, perhaps. So, the government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to this high house to declare September 22nd the National Day against Violence against Women. We will accept if you respected ladies MPs and gentlemen MPs accept to be among the few countries they will have, which will also win their national day against violence against women, however, I would like to remind you that there is an International Day against Violence against Women that is 25th November, however, on that day of course around the world, and Croatia is also talking about violence in general but most of course about violence against women. If you decide that September 22nd will become the National Day against Violence against Women, we will indeed settle into the very top of the world, among the countries that are here in this symbolic way want to say their non-violence and, of course, not violence against women. I want to remind you of what motivated the government and I must remind you of the excellent cooperation with women NGOs in Croatia, because that is, of course, their initiative that has been talked about a lot in the public over the past years. Namely, on September 22, 1999, when a terrible crime took place in the court of the Municipal Court in Zagreb, and when deathtime judge Ljiljana Hvalec, lawyer Hajra Prohic, wife of the perpetrator of this terrible crime, Gordana Oraškić, was killed, and she was badly wounded by the writer Stanka Cvetkovic. She is truly miraculous, thank God, miraculously getting out of all of this and able to survive. The perpetrator of this terrible crime, so Mrs. Gordana Oraskovic's husband managed to undetectedly enter the deadly weapon to commit this triple murder, and attempted murder and flee from the scene of the crime. Since the Government of the Proposal for a Decision made just before the 22nd of September of this year, we expect that the Croatian Assembly will give its support to this idea, this proposal, but in cooperation with NGOs, we have set up a panel in the municipal court building on September 22nd of this year that will permanently warn and will permanently remind us of this event. That panel was placed next to the courtroom where the event took place and since that day since that triple murder in that room no one has ever entered, there has been no further debate. If you would, or if you would, take the decision of Madam MPs, the Members of the House on September 22nd as the National Day against Violence against Women will certainly be another contribution to the fight against violence against women but also to the fight against violence at all because it will certainly be sensitizing the public to this great problem that must be spoken of publicly, which must not be spoken of publicly. Because violent behavior will certainly not agree and must not be generally accepted, especially not quietly accepted. And the general public condemnation of such behaviour must be a constant practice. That is what we really need to talk about all the time. And I will say a few minutes later why I personally think it is important to talk about it continuously, that it is important to talk about it in Parliament. In fact, I'm going to give you information that makes it very easy to follow clearly how domestic violence is really violence, that is, violence against women, because the victims are mostly women and children, unfortunately, in the upward path. In the year 99, the offender's misrepresented number was 353. The total number of damaged persons was 624. In 2000, the number of offenders reported for a criminal offence, i.e. the offence of violent conduct in family 3420, total number of damaged persons 5325. In 2001, the number of offenders reported by the perpetrators was 5004, the total number of damaged persons 7159. In 2002, the number of offenders reported in violation 6600, total number of damaged persons 9182. In 2003, the number of offenders, therefore for domestic violence and the number of female victims, was 9151, the total number of injured persons 12 thousand 260. In 2003, the number of damaged female subjects was around 67%. And now, of course, I have almost the freshest data on the first three months of this year, which are worrying, so because they show, so when you look from the 99th to today that the number of these parts is growing. It's probably one of the reasons that violence is increasingly being talked about, violence is becoming more and more publicly condemned and, of course, we believe it encourages victims to warn and report abusers. Here's what it's like to be the first three months of this year. The number of perpetrators of domestic violence reported in 1650 in 2003 and 2540 in the first three months of this year. Total number of damaged persons in the first three months of this year 3426. The number of women affected, 2275, is 50% higher than in the same period last year. The number of damaged minors 36% higher than in the same period last year. And the number of perpetrators detained by a misdemeanor 88.8% higher than in the same period last year. So this gives us the right to conclude that by sensitizing the public, by adopting quality laws that regulate the issue of domestic violence, and the number of those victims in the family, the number of women who decide to report and break up the vicious circle is certainly greater. However, these data also show that this is an evil violence against women in the upward path and that we have to do everything to stop it, and then, of course, every year as much as possible, or from day to day as possible. Also, the results of the analysis I have, which I am not going to read to you in detail now, show that the bully is mostly a mate, an ex-marriage friend, an extramarital friend, but unfortunately also a son, so the bully is always a male. However, in order not to get the wrong impression, I must say that there are, of course, cases of serious violence against men and that it should also be condemned. So, ladies and gentlemen, these are all the reasons why the government is proposing to you, to make a decision to declare September 22nd the National Day of Combating Violence Against Women and, of course, to be a day like any other day I believe in which we will fight domestic violence, violence against children and violence against women. Just for the end of the information by the respected representative and gentlemen, the information that we are at the end of drawing up a Strategy on protection against domestic violence. Representatives of non-governmental women's associations also participate in the development of the strategy. I believe that this will be a quality strategy that I can say something more about later in the debate. and also that since the start of its mandate, this government has given very strong support to women NGOs who are fighting violence and of course support from the budget and support through the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and that this intensity will, of course, continue in the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22353	Thank you very much. Meanwhile, he also submitted a report to the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yes, you do. The Committee on Gender Equality. Here you are, Mrs. Carmela Caparin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22354	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Combating Violence against Women submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 17 September 2004. The Committee considered the proposed act in the capacity of the home working body in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee supports the decision to declare the National Day of Combating Violence against Women. The members and members of the board referred to institutional mechanisms for promoting and protecting women's rights in the Republic of Croatia. It has been pointed out that there are material regulations in the Republic of Croatia that protect and promote gender equality as a fundamental constitutional value, which is a national policy to promote gender equality with the national policy programme to promote gender equality in the Republic of Croatia from 2001 to 2005. Then the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on Protection against Family Violence, the Law on Equal Communities, the Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, which prohibits discrimination in the field of work, and the Advocates for Gender Equality and the Office for Gender Equality. The Committee notes that national policy for promoting gender equality requires action programmes and programme tasks, i.e. the tasks required by the Ministry to carry out. The Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament used its legal authority and requested reports related to violence against women from the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior. Data from the MUP indicate an increase in violence against women this year by approximately 50.1% compared to the previous year. In the debate, the Committee supported the need to mark Croatia's Day of Combating Women's Violence on November 25th as a permanent mention of the tragic murder of three women in the municipal court of Zagreb. It has been pointed out that violence against women occurs most often in the so-called. The safe environment, the family communities and the thugs are spouses, fathers, out-of-wedth partners. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision to declare the National Day against Violence Against Women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22355	Thank you very much. In the name of it, we're going into a club debate. On behalf of the HSLS and DC Club in the first part of Ms. Vice President Djurdja Adlesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22356	Thank you very much, fellow Vice President, Your Honors and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister. As a club of HSLS and DC, we will absolutely support the proposal for a decision to declare September 22nd the National Day against Violence against Women. And I believe it is good to remember on this day and in this debate what happened in 1999 in the court of the Municipal Court in Zagreb and Judge Ljiljana Slavec and lawyer Hajra Prohić, wife of the perpetrator Gordana Oreskovic and the notary Stanka Cvetkovic. The only thing we keep in mind is that to this day the proposal of this law has not been found and that we have not dealt more systematically with this problem all past years even though there has been an attempt. We are aware of the fact that violence against women exists, that it is one of the worst problems, not only in Croatia but throughout the world. And there's data that we've had opportunity to hear, which is that every third woman in the world has been a victim of violence throughout our lives. The United States we like to call on is talking about a million cases a year. The Russian government estimates that 14,000 women are killed every year by their partners or family members as Bangladesh speaks of 50% of all murder victims that the perpetrators are their spouses. In 26 countries of the world, including some members of minority communities and immigrants in Europe, Canada, Australia and the United States, the UN report, the family planning office warned of a specific problem of violence among women whose data relate to victims of sexual mutilation and indeed in countries that we believe can be called "developed". The European Union countries also talk about a third or a quarter of 170 million women and girls who suffer violence. The UN has been more systematically dealing with this problem since 93rd, by adopting the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women and placing them in the priority area of action in promoting equality between men and women. In our case, the real scale of violence is pretty hard to figure out, the last few years we've been significantly more active. However, the fact is that the data we could hear from the Committee and the Government is alarming. But also the fact that most of such works that occur between the four walls, which is because of shame, fear, guilt or lack of even information about adequate assistance services, remain silent and unreported. The exact data on violence against women are indeed needed in order to determine the measures against them as well as adequate processing of all forms of violence against women. And those who before the government started systematically doing it, who did most of the work, above all in raising awareness of this problem, and then in volunteering for these women, were certainly NGOs who did a great job. And that's why I'm particularly glad that the government is including them in lawmaking this time. I may really repeat some of the information you've heard here but I don't think it's ever enough to tell our public again. These are the data of the 2000 MUP when 67%, 71 victims were women, usually husband, then father, son, ex-marriage partner and ex-husband, and then there are even, listed as stepdads. In criminal acts against sexual freedom and sexual miracle, women are almost the only victims in almost 90% of cases. In last year's data, we have data on the growth of victims of domestic violence, and it's just a woman. So we have 17% of the murders, 23 attempted murders by their partners. With 12%, in 12 cases it's a cold weapon, in 11 cases a gun, so that raises the question of gun control, while 10 women had various tools, hammers, axes, of which four women succumbed to injuries, so they were killed, and 6 were able to survive. There's information from the police that says that every single, every fifth woman reports violence. According to the MUP data for the first three months, we also have data on the increase in violence victims of 66.4% and women's gender. The fact is that we can talk about stronger social sensitisation, the activities of NGOs, governments and citizens themselves, however, these data are indeed alarming. It's said that more women were killed this year than all over the year. So in the first nine months of last year, there were 10 murders where the victims were only women. Indeed, there should be something to say about organizations dealing with women systematically for many years before governments did so, and the Association Step, from Karlovac, who has serious financial problems, the Association of Hope from Osijek, but also different shelters that generally do not have enough room for all the women who ask for help. And they also have no financial resources to ensure adequate work. I can only say on the example of the town of Belovar that the biggest crowd in the secret houses is somewhere behind the martini. Which speaks enough about the reasons for domestic violence. Of course, the problem of financing these houses has always been opened, we have received promises and the first concrete government support this year, but I have also warned in several past years that local self-government that cares about primary schools, kindergartens, and also about firefighters must indeed have a serious obligation to finance one, minimum of one secret house in the county. Minimum one. If we admit this fact. I would also like to say something about the Law that we have passed over the past few years that speaks of the measure of the separation of abusers from the family. I think there's even 55% of cases solved, which is about 3500 cases. That's a huge number. However, if we do not amend Article 17(3) and (4) where, with a safeguard measure, it is indeed necessary to precede a minimum request to initiate the infringement procedure, then we have done little. But also the initiation of a case against a person who knows about violence but is not reported by one or another, and most often it is fear of abusers. These are really large, large numbers and it would be interesting to see how many, such cases where no cases of domestic violence have been reported, have been sanctioned. Of course, it would be good, and that is something that I believe and NGOs will strongly insist on making new laws, which is to enable legal, provide victims of domestic violence with free legal assistance, i.e. free legal representation, because we have information that says they are in the highest percentage of women. However, there are data that are unfortunately equally accurate that they are either women who are housewives, women who are jobless or earn significantly less than their partners and of course cannot pay for expensive legal services. I really can't, and that's why we think that's where the state should jump in. What we could certainly do, which is shown by some cities that apparently have enough financial resources but also some smaller cities, which is at least help with free textbooks for single - parent families. There are cities that have done this. Free textbooks or priorities for enrolment in kindergarten and lower prices because it is certain that they are families that are necessarily poorer. Let me also remind you of a proposal that has been written about a lot, but unfortunately it has not been lived. And it seemed to me that if we looked around him without political colors, we'd have a consensus. And that's the alimony fund. Indeed, one real measure to achieve women's rights is that we know that women are often the ones who stay with their children. So I sincerely hope that by the end of the year the government will find the funding for next year. We know that there's already been unused funds since this year, that the alimony fund is functioning. It is therefore acceptable for us to propose a national fight against violence against women, but it would not be acceptable for it to be a day of memory of victims while, of course, silenced some anonymous victims or a day when we would only condemn violence against women but would indeed come from such a decision and concrete measures that would help such women and such furrows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22357	Thank you very much. The second part of the presentation on behalf of the Club of Representative Frano Piploić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22358	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government, dear colleagues and colleagues! In front of us, one of its content is a thin, thin document and it is very important for its effects. At the Democratic Centre, we support this initiative to start systematically at the country level, even if this is the way to combat or oppose violence that has actually become a feature of today’s time, today’s man. Violence follows us everywhere in every place, on the street, on the job, on the tram, on the plane. So wherever a man is going, where he lives and works, he's exposed to different forms of violence. This is primarily about man's violence against man. We have other forms of violence. Violence is known both to nature and to the plant, animal world, air and so on, but this form of violence is primarily what concerns us here and we need to find ways to resist this violence effectively. In addition to violence against women, it means that when we talk about gender violence, we also have violence against children by age, violence, and older ones. And that's violence present. We have whether or not to admit and violence against men. We have violence when we talk about where it happens, I say on the street. We have violence in the stadiums, which is particularly present in our society, and they're looking for modality to stand up to that violence. There's no game of Hajduk and Dinam, and one of them doesn't happen because there's no violence and there's no harm done and our police don't arrange in those cases. When it comes to violence against women and this argument given here, it is clear that it is about violence that occurs exclusively in the family. And it's also clear that whoever is causing this domestic violence according to this statistical data that we have here is primarily husbands, fathers, sons and extramarital spouses. So it's them who do it, it's violence. And that's why I think it might be better if we want to protect women from this, that this decision to declare the National Day of Combating Violence against Women extends to domestic violence because the family is where it all comes from. This accident we had on September 22, 1999, when two, four women died. Two of them, one of them was a lawyer, and the other judge, they didn't get hurt here as women but were involved in the case, one court dispute that couldn't be settled in the family, came to the court, and probably a man would have died there if he had been and had represented the interests of the late Gordana Oraskovic. Clearly, so we can't talk here about having been pointed here, this crime against a woman. The woman was killed here, the incident was conceived in the family, in the family he developed, and then he came out, entered into a broader context, a social context, and there unfortunately he was tragically resolved. And that's why I'm in favour, and I'm going to make an amendment that this decision, to change the name of the decision, is not to be a National Day against Violence against Women but a National Day against Family Violence, because that's what we're going to protect children. I think we protect children who are also the subject of domestic violence, we protect older people who are also the subject of domestic violence, and I think there are also husbands who are also the subject of domestic violence. Unfortunately, men get here...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22359	I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22360	...shows like the ones who are the ones who do the most. In an explanation, it means that it is a kind of conflict-of-social relationship that arises and develops in a family that is threatened by fundamental human rights and individual freedoms...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22361	Excuse me, mate, time!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22362	...but families as the fundamental communities of every society whose holders are in the largest number of family members; husband, father, son, out-of-wedth husband. It's more appropriate to put an emphasis on the family. If this name remains, it turns out that in Croatian society at all levels there is violence against women which is not true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22363	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect quote, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22364	The vice president is incorrect that he told counterpart Piploic that the late Judge Praiser and the lawyer did not suffer as women. It doesn't matter if they were killed like women. The woman was the victim and the women were the ones who put themselves in the defense of that victim. And that is precisely, therefore, that vulnerability because it is precisely women, although they are often the only victims and most often provide either in an institution or outside the institution for the assistance of victims. And the question now is whether a man would get hurt is some sort of bill here. Rarely when a man is raised in such situations by a gun.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22365	Thank you very much, colleague. Please, you must know the Rules of Procedure. We have one replica. My colleague Sobol. ... [[/Intruder: No replica. ...Speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22366	I picked up the line, but then I didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22367	Please, nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22368	If he can't, then I'm the one who picked up the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22369	Replica, then nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22370	Then nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22371	If it was a correction, it could be. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, colleague of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22372	Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, Madam Vice-President of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP club, I would like to point out at the outset that we will support the decision to declare a national day against violence against women. An initiative that has existed since the day of this tragic murder at the Municipal Court in Zagreb, and we expect that this day, loving that day, will truly talk about violence against women. The most common questions about violence against women are why she stayed with him, or why she didn't leave. Since this is the case, people who have not survived the violence in the house think it is obvious that society is not yet sensitive to the problem of violence against women. The question we should ask when we hear about a case of violence against a woman is how to stop a bully. The priority issues to which rites should be offered effective solutions are. How to help women victims of violence? how to provide them with protection, what protection, how to increase their safety when one goes away, since many women are killed after leaving the bully? What methods are most helpful, therapy, yes or no "What therapy? When women victims of violence decide to leave, do they have anywhere to go? How much society separates funds to help shelters for women and children. How many separates to prevent violence at all. How are the victims protected by law and how does their exercise work in practice? In our country with a problem of violence against women we have lived for decades. But there was only a little more public talk about this in Croatia than 10 years, and this was the establishment of NGOs that at the time began systematically to protect women victims of violence. Unfortunately, in our country, official state statistics on violence against women do not exist. However, there are police black reports, there are data and experiences from women's groups that provide support and help to women victims of violence. And it shows a steady increase in violence, which shows that in the first few months of this year, the number of women killed in domestic violence has exceeded all over the past year. And what the actual number of women is exposed to violence. Physical, sexual, or psychological in the patient cannot be accurately determined, due to the lack of research and data collection, and because in one part of the woman still do not report violence. The father killed the mother of seven children. Defending his mother with a knife to a drunk father. A woman and children seven years alone in a family hell. Raped his wife, sentenced to parole. He abuses children and his ex-wife. His wife came back and attacked him with an axe. Convicted so he kept beating his ex-wife. A woman broke both her arms and her spine. Victim of violence in the family cops insulted. Drunken strangled his ex-wife in front of his little son's eyes. Drunk knocked out a woman and a stepdaughter pulled her hair. Unmarried wife beat and raped after she turned him down. Only some of the headlines in the Croatian daily press have been in recent months. and these headlines best speak of the problems of women victims of violence. The suffering of psychic and physical children, repeated violence, false promises of never again, problems of mild punishment for the perpetrators. The lack of understanding of the environment, the issues of police conduct, and the victim is thus spinning around in the circle of family hell. One of the NGOs that has been involved systematically for years in helping victims of violence spent last year researching domestic violence called the economic aspect of domestic violence against women. It's an autonomous women's house, with the support of the then state institution for the protection of family, motherhood and youth. On a sample of a thousand women aged 18 to 65. The results showed that 21% of subjects experienced physical violence, relationship or marriage. 35% of respondents witnessed domestic violence. 40% says she knows that their best friend had a physical attack from the man she was having an affair with. The frequency of physical violence in former relationships or marriages is even higher. 59% of the divorced women experienced being roughly pushed by their ex-husband or hairbrushed. 54% received slaps, 22% suffered heavy beatings, and 26% survived an attempt to choke. Especially surprising are the data of sexual violence in the family. 24% of women responded that the relationship was forced into sexual relations against its will, 5% said that it was immigration once, 11% two to three times, and 8% four and more times. And psychological violence, measured only through verbal violence and impact threats to data in Croatia, suffers an extremely large number of women. Shouting, rough words, swearing, calling names and so forth, 44% of women experienced in the current relationship. Of the ex-husband, that form of abuse experienced 67% of women, the threat of strokes in the current relationship was 27% and 61% of ex-husbands. As far as the legislative framework in the fight against violence is concerned, therefore, it is a figure that speaks of violent behavior reported by violent behaviour for 99 years on the 2000 relationship of a tremendously different one. We remind the family that there is no mention of domestic violence until mid-99s. Therefore, all statistics on this matter date back to July 1st, 99th. It was not until the end of 2000 that we introduced a criminal act of domestic violence into the criminal justice system, and since the semi-indication of 2003, a special law on protection against domestic violence. We specifically remind the government of national policy to promote gender equality. The provisions that speak of fighting violence against women, and therefore we support that this day is also marked as the day of fighting violence against women. And he says, when it comes to making a national strategy, we will, of course, support the national strategy to fight violence at all. But we remind ourselves that there is an obligation to develop a special national strategy to combat violence against women. Because women are the most common victims of violence in our country besides children. We also remind the government and are essentially looking for some way to answer that. We remember the debate on the state budget from the beginning of this year, we remember the millions and 300 thousand kuna that are foreseen in this state budget for the purpose of helping victims of domestic abuse. I remind you that there was a budget rebalance that these million and 300 thousand kunas were left, and according to the report for the first six months of this year, out of those million and 300 thousand kuna, a little more than four thousand kuna was spent. So those funds that are specifically in the budget for helping victims of domestic abuse seem to us, not to us, but according to the report we have from the government, it turns out that they are absolutely not being spent, and as far as helping NGOs, we welcome, of course, that this government, as well as the past government, is hearing, at least in this part, we can say this in the SDP Club, at least for now, existing shelters to help victims of violence, such as the Autonomous Women's House and Group Step, but we expect that through a strategy to fight violence against women to try and solve the problem of existence and work and such shelters, because it shows that these shelters are very necessary. Finally, we want to warn of certain tendencies that come from individual and highest church circles. In fact, we have recently had the opportunity to read in a daily newspaper that there is a pilgrimage to the celebration of the family from the archbishop’s mouth, which he has warned about, in fact, some 6,000 pilgrims about unacceptable tendencies in our society, where we are talking about some equality in marriage, where we are talking about some kind of freedom in marriage, while neglecting the natural authority of the family, is primarily meant by the authority of the father. This is a reliable article that came out in the paper and at the SDP Club, we expect the government to take all the steps in order to make domestic violence less and less violence against women at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22373	Thank you very much, colleague. One rectification of an incorrect allegation. Here's a colleague of Piploic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22374	Well, I'm going to correct the alleged colleague Sobol in the section where she mentions the church and the church dignitaries that they've advocated the authority of the father. She probably read it in the papers, and in the papers, it's not enough arguments to confirm the truth. That's for sure. From the context, there is no way for the church to conclude this, that it is only fighting for the authority of the father. First of all, the church is fighting for the authority and dignity of the family, it's the Nucleus, it's the core in which individuals live.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22375	You haven't corrected the incorrect quote, you've explained it. Correction of an incorrect quote requires a more precise quote. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected colleague Ruža Tomasic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22376	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. I am looking at all these laws that should help women and in some way prevent violence, which is the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on Protection against Family Violence, the Law on Equal Communities, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act that prohibits discrimination in the field of work, and the Advocate for Gender Equality and the Office of Gender Equality. According to how many of these laws we have, it seems that we women are the most protected beings in Croatia, and then I see that in the Republic of Croatia from 1.1 to 30.3. In 2004, there were 1,960 victims of female violence in just 3 months. So, with all these laws of violence, and especially against women, it grows from month to month. Instead of implementing existing laws and respecting them, new laws are proposed, for this seems to satisfy the conscience in some ways. Well, if that's the case, then let's propose another law. A law that requires that all those who commit violence simply report themselves to the police. Let's try. It would be almost as good as these laws mentioned above. The fact is, no matter how good the law is, if it isn't implemented, it's nothing. Still, I would just like to point out that, with this proposal for a decision to declare a national day against violence against women, the Croatian Party's Right Club supports this decision. I'd just end up being happy, and probably the families of these victims, that we got the results of the investigation, so we know how it happened, why it happened, whether it could be prevented and how it could have been prevented and what was done never to happen to anyone again. And second of all, it's just a shooting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22377	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22378	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. Let me state the position of the HDZ Club. The HDZ Club supports the proposal for a decision to declare a national day against violence against women. Violence against women is present in every society regardless of the political, economic system, wealth, race or culture. It is certainly a complex social problem and constitutes a harsh violation of human rights. The Croatian Constitution lays down in the provisions governing personal and political freedoms and rights in Article 23 that no one should be subjected to any form of abuse. Violence against women is partly not possible because it is not reported by women. In part, research is not conducted, but despite this, police reports, as well as data and experience from women groups providing support and assistance to victims of violence, show a steady increase in violence. The most common are victims: women, children, older and powerless persons. Violence against women's sexes is most often carried out within the presence of domestic violence, which should represent the safest area of life for a woman. The trend in domestic violence continues. According to the government's reasoning, the above data show an increase of over 50% compared to the same period last year. In Croatian practice, there is still no sufficient sensitivity to the problem of violence against women, which is unacceptable and there is no excuse for it. In the future, our family is a fundamental institution of society, and any violence must be contained, including violence against women of women. In the period from 1 July 99, as we heard by 31 December 2003, the number of female victims in the total number of damages in the Republic of Croatia was 23,489. Of these 49.52% of all cases, the perpetrator of violence was the victim's husband, in 18.99% of the perpetrator was the victim's father, in 6.28% was the ex-marriage husband, and in 2.17% was the mother of the victim, or in 1.47% of the perpetrator was the ex-husband. During the same period last year at the level of the MUP in terms of gender, 17 persons were injured and 7 were female and 7 male. In view of the gender crime of the murder in an attempt of 19, male persons have been damaged, and 13 women have been injured. Since the society in which we live is a patriarchal society, a broad education is necessary in order to cease to tolerate domestic violence, and to put the victim, not the bully, at the centre of attention. It is alarming for domestic bullyes, as experts have shown, dear gentlemen, that there is a transmission in the behaviour of the previous victim of violence and itself become violent. 0It is evident that the public has mobilised and that violent behaviour has been reported over the last year more than before, but we still need to work on optimal cooperation and coordination between the state bodies of the MUP, the Ministry of Justice, the Centre for Social Care and Schools. Violence must be reacted without delay to the effective judiciary and the enforcement of criminal sanctions. In the Republic of Croatia, a legislative framework is set up as in the Member States of the European Union, but what stands before us is the resolution of the so-called "mobinga" which is not regulated by us, namely long-term emotional abuse at the workplace that leads to discrimination and exclusion from the world of work. So far, polls have shown that women have been affected in two-thirds of the time in Mobing. The HDZ Club believes that the public needs to be sensitised by the problem of human trafficking, especially women, because we are a transit country, and on the basis of a national plan to combat human trafficking, we can combat this form of crime in order to protect women as well as children. And finally, the HDZ Club supports the national Day of Fight against Violence against Women September 22nd, because everything we do gentlemen in that section is progress in relation to the past period, and it will remind us of the day when a truly terrible massacre took place against women in the municipal court of Zagreb, such as the International Day of Combating Violence against Women on November 25th reminds us of the murdered three sisters in the Dominican Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22379	Thank you very much to my colleague. Let's move on. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, colleague Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22380	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Madam Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives' Club will support a decision to declare a national Day against Women's Violence as a permanent reference to the murder of three women killed on September 22nd 1999. In the fight against violence against women, it's the least we can do. The data unequivocally states that women are often and often victims of violence. They are the most common victims of domestic violence, and abusers are mostly spouses, ex-husbands, extramarital spouses, fathers, and even sons. Statistical data are based on reported cases, unreported cases are far more and difficult to assess whether domestic violence in our society is seen as something that belongs to family secrets and that must be hidden from the eyes and ears of people outside the family. Women hide violence and violence both because of the perception of violence in our society and because of the inability of society to protect the victim of violence. And after a report of violence almost regularly only when the situation has long gone beyond the limit of endurance for women is forced and continues to remain in the house or apartment along with the bully. Violence is repeated and sometimes ends with murder and serious physical injuries. It's only after we find out that a woman has been a victim of violence for years, that the police intervened, but the victim and the bully continued to stay together in the apartment or house. Hence, we have received with our sympathies the efforts of the family ministry to do something to protect the abused in the family. With compassion we also received an item of the budget in that ministry called "Protect the Insolent in the Family" planned with a million and 300 thousand kuna and these funds are not large, but the message is large. It was an encouragement to all abused and a source of hope that the time would come when the abuser and the abused would no longer have to live together. The disappointment came with a report on the implementation of the budget for the first term. Out of the planned millions and 300 grand for this purpose, only 4 thousand and 86 kuna were spent, which raises doubt about the seriousness of the intentions of the authorities to do something more serious about the realization of protection projects abused in families, most of which are women. The abused left only good words, persuasion of understanding, one word of the abundance of pathetics, and the rigid reality that nothing happened in their protection. A woman is not only a victim of domestic violence, she is a rare victim of various forms of violence and in her workplace. The judge of the Municipal Court in Zagreb, Ljiljana Hvalec, a colleague of HR Prohić and writer Stanka Cvetkovic, were at their workplace and their only fault was that they were doing their job. Because of the tragic end, we all know about them, but we don't know, and we may never know about a number of women who suffer physically, mentally, and other forms of violence in their workplace without ever telling anyone what they are suffering, because not only are they feeling, but they are completely unprotected. No matter how much we swear on gender equality, no matter how declarative we accept the fact that women are as capable as men, the capacity of the weaker sex is to be envious and jealous of primitive "macho" men, but they think that "macho" men, who, in the absence of primitiveism, are caused by the lack of self-control by the most insolent and untasteful dictionary, are reckoning with the people of the weaker sex. Isn't that the form of violence that actors actually talk about themselves and the human misery in which they live, without wanting to rise from the bottom of the primitives? Although they will live in primitiveism and die, they are violent men who have courage, even if verbal violence only works against those who are weaker, and these are women. And finally, when the Ministry of the Family has failed to design or implement projects of protection abused in families, most of which are women, let us make this decision as a reference to the murder of three women, but also as a small contribution to the fight against all forms of violence, no matter where it happened, in the family, in the school, in the workplace, in the street, or in the workplace, for example, like ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22381	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the promoter, Jadranka Kosor, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22382	Thank you very much, dear Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is why there would be no more discussion of the need to keep going back to a family protection project against domestic abuse, or protection from domestic violence. As far as the Family Ministry is concerned, programs are being implemented, programs are being made. It is not true that they are gone and it is not true that the million and 300 thousand kunas that are foreseen in that position are forgotten for the realization of these programmes, let alone that they will not be spent until the end of this year. I want to give you a brief report on what's been done so far. So, with the help of the autonomous women's house that I said something about at first, I also remind myself of the help, also the women's shelter in Karlovac at the same amount, so 200 thousand kuna, then the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation Osijek, the shelter for abused family members, is also realized. The programme of cooperation with the Association of Disabilities of the City of Bjelovar, a shelter for the abused members of the family, then the "Rovinski Sun", then "Mirto" in Split, a shelter for the abused members of the family in Slavonski Brod and the negotiation of these projects is expected, i.e. the conclusion of negotiations by half this month. Also in the realization are programmes for the opening of several counselling centres, i.e. the Centre for Family from Split, which is already open, we expect to open one such centre very soon, i.e. counselling centres that will have just counselling among the first tasks, i.e. assistance for families who face violence in Dubrovnik. These days I should also sign the contract, so about two months ago we signed a principle agreement on it, now there is a contract signing coming, I believe in a month that centre in Dubrovnik would open, and there will be similar centres of family jell-o', in Sibenik, Vinkovci, Osijek and Sisak. Also in realisation are the social empowerment cooperation programmes of women from the risk of living and education programmes of deaf women for self-employment, then the programme of education of women from a socially risky group, or groups in Sisak for self-employment and social empowerment programs of women exposed to violence, because we think and believe that we can absolutely agree that empowerment of women and self-employment is one of the ways that women truly, to stand up as it says really firmly on their feet and that they can oppose a bully in every sense. Then we also have a problem in Croatia Kostanica, a programme of support for parents and also in Zadar a programme that would also go towards establishing a family counseling centre. So all programmes are just aimed at curbing domestic abuse, that is, domestic violence, that is, against women, and clearly against children. I would also like to remind you that we in the government think that it is a very worrying data that speaks about, that more than 58% of the unemployed are women and that this is what the Government should insist on when it comes to employment projects, or self-employment projects. In this way, the Family Ministry will participate in such a way that we will also sign an agreement with the Resolute Ministry of Labour, i.e. Small and Medium Entrepreneurship, where we would support the project of women entrepreneurs, so empowering women in entrepreneurship. Here are just some of the projects that will be implemented by the end of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22383	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A correction of the incorrect allegations was reported by representative Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22384	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So I'm correcting Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister's allegations that it's incorrect that only four thousand kunas have been spent. I am reading the Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the implementation of the state budget that we received on the benches and from millions and 300 was spent more precisely 4 thousand 048.92. Just as it says in the entry "Improving the quality of family life and the development of family services" of 4 million and 400, only 48 thousand were spent. So I had to fix this. The truth is, I wasn't using the wrong information, I was using the information the government provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22385	I'm asking you nicely not to throw it out of the bench, there's a way you can fix something. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22386	Madam Vice President has allowed, if you allow clarification, I also don't think it will hurt anyone, it can only be of any use. It's about that, ma'am, you're talking about the report for the first six months. I remind you, therefore, that we have been on temporary funding for three months, that in particular in new projects, we have to wait for the adoption of the state budget and only then to start new projects, and of course everything that can be realised cannot be implemented immediately. So we had to wait, it took some time to sign the agreements, set up projects and, of course, sign contracts that are then beginning to be realised in the state budget. Of course it wasn't possible until the sixth month of this year. That's what I'm asking for. Therefore, it is the projects that I especially want to convince you on this project of protection against domestic violence and protection against violence against children and women, I am personally very interested in these programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22387	Thank you very much. I know I broke the Rules of Procedure when I gave my word to the Deputy Prime Minister, but given the sensitivity of everyone in the Statistics Hall this time and for the accuracy of the data, I hope you will have an understanding. This isn't going to be a practice. Let's move on. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS respected representative Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22388	I'll go a little differently. I'd like to remind us all of the environment we live in. I've heard many times, and many of you have heard, some as a joke, and some as a true story as a husband of his wedding night beats up and beats up a woman and says, "Your wife is now so you know what it'll be like if you accidentally make a mistake." We live in such a society, we live in such an environment, and that's the fact. I know that many of you have heard it as a joke, but some have heard it as a true story. And we live in an environment where for years there's been a saying "batin's come out of heaven" and in this case, by declaring this national Day of Fight against Women Violence, we need to say that the beating shouldn't be directed against women. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Primorje-Gorskin Alliance will also support the decision to declare a national Day against Violence. However, I ask whether it will be another day like all those days that are declared either in Croatia or in Europe or in the world, such as the days against non-smoking, etc. And on that day I set myself on fire, or it will be a day when we men will, after we have declared that day, because most of us here, get only better food than their wives and we'll figure out this is the day when we should at least be a little better at women. But I'd like to remind you of what I expect that day to be. I expect that day will present women's problems in a completely different way. That it will break certain prejudices that rule in the people, and I would now like to remind here in the first place of sexual abuse and I will list only seven prejudices that have been generally accepted in society and I will go in order. First, many believe that unknown men are most often raped. That's not true at all. He rapes 80% of famous men, so it's 80% of the people he rapes who know. Then the second. That rapists are maniacs who stand out with their looks. So that's what my colleague said they were macho guys, and that's not true either. There's no rule what a rapist looks like. Then, third. They say, they rape women who have to look beautiful, who are beautiful, who are from the picture, from the front page. That's not true either. Raping in society is an awful lot and being raped by children from 5 months to 80 years old and it's one of the huge prejudices. Then, it is usually heard in men’s ranks that women enjoy what is happening to them. It's not true, after such things, there are enormous traumas, and we can read that anywhere in literature, anywhere in the confessions of those women who have been through it, and especially during the war when many women have been through, we can read that it's a huge, huge pain that stays for life. Then, they say a woman didn't come out of the house, it couldn't happen to her that she was raped. That's not the rule either. Many women are just because famous rapists are raped in their homes. They say men mostly do it because it's the result of a strong sexual desire. It's not true, because 80% of rapes are pre-planned. And another thing that's pretty important. Many say that women mostly falsely accuse men of rape. Now I want to go back to that beginning, I want to go back to the day we declare today, which is education. It is that this day cannot be just a day that we today declared to be September 22nd and September 22nd that will be the day when we say that it is Dan, the National Day of Combating Violence against Women. However, I believe that we should in any case dedicate the most education to training people, to training women, and I would like to say in a way. To train women in ways to seek help when they find themselves in one of these situations. In my opinion, the most important thing is to provide some sort of living space to people who are permanently, which is primarily women and children who experience violence. So that's something in the style of these houses that are being founded and that, here, the minister mentioned. Then there's the provision of emotional support. Because after the beatings, after the rape or after any other abuse, abuse at work we don't talk about, abuses even here between us in some situations. In any case, emotional support should be provided in such situations. Ensure that women can share experiences because other people’s experiences can in any case help one of them not to. Then these women also need to be informed about their rights, about the opportunities they have through legal practice, and many women have no knowledge and knowledge of what they can do in these situations. Then, in any case, it is necessary to meet women and to meet them in a way that works in various institutions, such as social work institutions, health institutions, judicial and humanitarian organisations and other organisations that can help them when they find themselves in such a situation. Then, in any case, more education needs to be done, meaning, informing from a small age, and that is the same thing that should be done on this day, informing children, telling children about all possible types of violence that occur in society. And raise awareness in society in any case, awareness against violence and explain that and non-violent communication is communication. And don't stick to what Al Capone said, "a nice word is good, but a nice word and a gun is far better.". So, in any case, I advocate non-violence, and in any case, the Croatian People's Party and the Primorsko-Gorski Alliance will support this. I know it's pretty hard for many to listen to these things, and a lot of people are bored, I see. However, I want to say one more thing in the end, and that is: employment to none of us and none of us can forbid any of us. So we can be lawyers, we can be doctors, we can be farmers, we can be dentists, I don't know what else. But gentlemen, I call upon all of you politicians to ban every bully from entering politics. That no bully can be a politician.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22389	Thanks a lot, buddy. Please be quiet. One notice. In accordance with Article 207(2), The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. If you sign up now, you can only argue for five minutes on behalf of your clubs. The next is on behalf of the IDS Club, a colleague of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22390	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Vice-President of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues. The IDS Club will support the proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Combating Violence against Women and, of course, September 22nd to be the day. As a result, it is clear that all those who adhere to human rights, democracy and the modern state, to whom this must be not only an obligation but something that is meant. We in the IDS are committed to respecting human rights, whether it is about protecting national minorities, protecting children, protecting women or any other vulnerable groups or individuals. It is the only way we can measure ourselves with developed democracies, and spend and grow into a modern European state. Because respect for human rights is the mirror of a country. Declaratively, of course, everyone is to respect human rights, but when laws are to be implemented in action, then we are disappointed in those we expect to implement these laws and, of course, we expect help to be disappointed in them. I hope that, apart from this declaration of declaration and the marking of September 22nd, in practice, we will have less violence against women because the data we have are truly devastating. I must also say that IDS supports the position of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities, that it is called National Day Against Violence Against Women, not Women, and I hope that the Government will respect this remark. We have heard a lot of information so far about how all violence against women is being committed but I think it is also necessary to act preventively and that education can accomplish a lot and that the violence that is happening in our environment is no longer an integral part of human experience because we also know that among the leading causes of mortality in people between 15 and 44 years of age is violence. Except that we have, of course, violence that is markedly visible, such as wars and terrorism, domestic violence and women, and what happens inside four walls is one form of violence that is not visible, but that is why there is great mortality in these types of violence. 40% to 70% of women's violence suffer from partners and only 4% of deaths are men who have caused wives. As far as the theory of violence is concerned, we've heard quite well already, we have indeed a lot of violence against women in the family, at work, on the street, from isolation of everything, and I really commend that one such day is brought in even though we know that the same thing on December 10th is Human Rights Day, I hope that maybe another day that we get will really benefit us from helping women and that it's not just one day left to mark itself but that indeed all women benefit from that day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22391	Thank you very much, colleague. We are going to an individual debate, first reported is counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22392	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President, the Honorable Vice President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. As the SDP Club supports the proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Combating Violence against Women, so do I. That day is symptomatic not only above all that is deeply tragic but it speaks of the fact that women in the institution were killed there, in an institution that should have given them protection. It should be noted that by then there were neither detectors nor guards who could check whether the party or anyone else is bringing weapons into the courtroom. After that tragic event, he came to the Municipal Court and the detector. However, this is not the first, unfortunately, case of a woman being killed in such an institution, in a court of law. More than 20 years ago, a woman was killed in a municipal court in Zadar, she was exactly my party and my husband was on the obvious, everyone in the hall killed. Maybe it's just a question that he didn't kill the judge and made a worse slaughter because at that very moment he was upset. It was a long journey from what women experience most often in the family but everywhere, to that normative solution that is commendable that we have achieved to this day. But not long ago, domestic violence until it escalated to severe physical injuries, and then the question is because there was also a time a few years ago the procedure was carried out only on the proposal if they were married which was a terrible thing, so the situation was only clear if they were killed. Everything else was questionable, everything else was somehow not in the context of what and why society at all, the state had to worry and solve the problem. Until recently violence in the family was a violation of public order and peace, because a woman beaten, most often beaten if she yelled then the police would come and write criminal charges against both of them because she had been repudiated by public order and peace. So many women have paid with their heads for just the standard situation we have today. During the coalition government, a law on protection against domestic violence was passed, and the Penal Code was also amended where a new crime of domestic violence was imposed. To see an absurd situation to such a new normal solution, until then a woman could only be provided with criminal justice when violence was committed in front of children. So the woman was what we in criminal law call an objective condition of punishment. During the coalition government the Family Law was also amended, the Constitution was amended where gender equality was raised to constitutional level. But why the Family Law was particularly important. First of all, his basic principles were to create a partner relationship in the family, either in the extramarital or in the marriage community. That's what I mean most, to encourage exactly that kind of sex is the best prevention and protection of violence against women. And if Croatia is lagging behind in many ways, we are completely trending about this problem and these data are accurate that despite the good normative state of concern and even escalating. In part, such statistics are the result of the fact that the awareness is greater and they are more courageous in reporting these situations but it is certainly that the escalation of every violence is evident. And there's been a lot of talk about prejudice here, and it is this time that we're talking about prejudices that don't get around because just fighting prejudice was also a struggle for affirmation of this issue. We have seen that one of the government's measures is precisely special attention and protection of women from risk situations, a group, it's also a prejudice. There are no risky families, unfortunately domestic violence suffers both illiterate women and highly educated women. And they beat the illiterate, semi-literate to academically educated citizens, so-called. Reputable people, it's like cancer, it doesn't pass anyone. Equally, I think the prevailing obstacle, one prejudice, was not easy to cross. If it weren't for violence, that husband and wife were just fighting, but violence wouldn't stop by itself. And it's a good thing that through this normative, such prejudice is overcome. Family violence is not a private matter, and it was meant to overcome such an obstacle, one prejudice. It is also one prejudice that bullys are mostly people, men who have alcohol problems, alcohol can sometimes explain behavior but can never justify it. So a whole series of prejudices were present during the affirmation of this problem. And one terrible prejudice was here, my colleague Sobol was speaking and giving recognition to the very non-governmental women's associations that first affirmed this problem. And when the SDP joined in the '90s exactly the affirmation of this huge problem then we were rarely declared women who attacked the family, who, having something against the family, who were not sufficiently nationally aware, etc. These were headlines that followed round tables in the '90s when this problem was being discussed. That's why we welcome the progress of this government that sees that this is a serious problem and that it should be treated in this way. So a long way from disrupting public order and peace to finding that violence is indeed a crime and that it should be treated. But let's not just figure out what it is, as it is, we're making definitions that were necessary anyway. However, what do you do? It is evil, and there will be once again those situations that will lead to domestic violence if we propagate or do not give up any form of patriarchal division of power. Criterion, the only criterion for family relations must be relations, gender equality. The question is whether the family life of gender inequality and the partnering division of family affairs or the division of certain natural functions. Such a patriarchal pattern of conduct is absolutely unacceptable, even some kind of patriarchism of love that women must obey and that is how they love them. Such a model is incompatible with true respect, with true love. And he often gives birth to these forms of behavior. And let me get this straight. Domestic violence isn't just a private problem, it's not just a social problem, it's an important political problem. Discrimination of women, violence against them as the most escalating example of discrimination against women in society and in our country brings enormous damage. These problems in reality will still be underestimated, truly realistic, regardless of the norm until women are evenly politically represented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22393	Thank you very much, colleague. The following is registered counterpart Ljubica Brdaric for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22394	Thank you, Madam Vice President and Madam Prime Minister, I regret to say that your listing of ongoing projects and the signing of two agreements with two ministries of abused women will not mean much. Little or almost nothing. Our understanding may also win, but may I understand those who have every second of such life eternally. I'm afraid not. The day that we have chosen clearly shows how they can end the family tragedies in us. I'm using the opportunity to express my condolences to the families of the unfortunately dead, tragically deceased women who died in their work. As you've heard, in this country it can be quite dangerous to be a woman. You can be maliced on the street and in the workplace if you're lucky not to get into those 58% of unemployed women. But my dear women, most of all beware when you come home, there are those waiting for you who should love you, protect you, and give you safety. But there you are often found by those who treat you as their property, who think that by putting your signature on the wedding paper you signed and capitulation, you have no right to your position, your choices, your opinion, your life. Yes, we are concerned, the traditional family is in crisis but not because women have been emancipated, which has fallen from somewhere inexplicable and new than because they no longer have the strength to endure what they have not suffered for decades, centuries, forever. Let's look at our literature, our movies, our history. This has caught the roots so much that violence against women is considered to be minor and normal and to some extent acceptable. We have here a chance to make a statement in Parliament, and I would be happy if it had done far more male colleagues to hear what they think about it and to send an unambiguous message that violence and abuse as a way of solving the problem and any confilicates are unacceptable, indeed unacceptable. Because it's one thing to say, so it's declarative to advocate fighting violence against women and then to put on high-level government functions people who don't pay child support or abuse women. At one level, we advocate against something and on the other we silently make it known that it is not such a great sin, that it could or should destroy someone’s career. I think you should! And there's something else I need to do. These women who live in hell, and hell is gentlemen on earth for them, who have expensive strength, will and courage and desire to go away, they need the support and support of society to enable and help them. They can't do it alone. Our understanding, our tears will help them a little. There can only be one good national strategy, a good program but you know when? When he's helped with the money! When it's realized. Because the best program, the best national strategy, is not going to deliver any results unless it's implemented. We have witnessed in many of our laws that are good and are not implemented, that is the case and that is not the way to get results. I've got a book here called "And who's to blame!". Our society often reacts that way. And who's to blame? She made the wrong choice. And that's right! But is that why she needs to be punished further? Should I punish the children who live with her? Because in the case of a abused woman, a mother, if you don't raise your physical hand to the children, they're abused. I know that. Me and my colleagues are never or will be against the family, except our visions of this family differ. I want my daughters to have a love marriage, and since life is not a Mexican soap opera, so you can't be in love until you die, I hope that there will be a marriage where there will be friendship, understanding and mutual respect. A marriage where healthy, happy children grow up. It happened to me at the Social Services Center that I'd heard a conversation unnecessarily. It was a two-man settlement before the divorce. I didn't know who it was, the voices were heard, of course angry, the woman quietly said that she was pulling her hair, breaking her teeth and raising a gun to her and he said that and what you wanted, you had a bathroom first in the village and I'm feeding you. When they came out, something shriveled inside me, and I still feel bitter today when I remember it. A woman came out in a shocking dress older than my mother. She came to the sunset of her life to take a step that should have been taken long before. She sacrificed herself for fear, for shame, and perhaps for guilt. Most of all, I believe because of my children because it is a valid opinion that children should have both parents who are in health situations and rightly so. But you know what's saddest. She sacrificed herself, she spent her life, and tomorrow there's a good chance that her son, who made her do it, became an abuser. Because in the vast majority of cases abuses become abusers when they encounter someone weaker than themselves. And that's the scariest thing. And that's why I'm not that every marriage is being held at all costs and I don't consider my family a piece of shit. She's single-parent, but sometimes it's better to be without both parents if they're not able to provide love and security. If I cannot teach you dignity, respect, acceptance of another person, the way love is given and received, then those of this family of formals do not benefit at all. On the contrary, they are in harm's way. I think the state should, and there's responsibility on all of us, in every way to help. But if we really wanted to solve this problem, gentlemen, then we would have to talk here about both VAT and intermediation and the Alimentation Fund that is not available, so it's in that famous agreement with the IMF. Not to provoke you, but because it is an agreement from which the economic policy of this government is visible, and in fact without economic development and improvement of standards there is no solution for such cases. It's very important for women like that to cost them bread and milk, it's very important for them to know whether the cost of living is 400 kunas more expensive or 400 kunas cheaper. Do they have anywhere to go? Do they have anything to live on? Our understanding and compassion have little to do with it. They need it, but they also need concrete help. If we really want to help, let us do it with deeds, not just words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22395	Thank you very much, colleague. A colleague named Bagarić reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22396	Dear Madam Vice President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, dear colleagues, to rephrase your exposure and in fact question this thesis that the Croatian Government almost translated, so don't think seriously, if there is no means and so on. So it's not all about means and everything in isolation, but the problem is, the problem is, so there's a problem. The government has best placed him in the highest possible pedestal, which is to fight for the National Day of Combating Violence against Women. And that's, I'd say not enough, you should carry it out. But it doesn't always depend on money. And one more thing. My support for this, I thank Madam Vice President for this idea to the Government and to all of you who support this law and the adoption of this law in order to protect women and family at all. But let's not be so dramatic, because after this kind of exposure, I'm afraid that even those women who think about getting married, and we have a big problem with birth, we won't be able to force them into marriage. ... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22397	Thank you, thank you. Let me give you my colleague's word first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22398	I apologize, I'm upset, but we can understand our colleague. He's obviously not a woman or abused by happiness. And I didn't, I didn't agree to this kind of behavior, and that's why I'm asking the state to help women who are able to leave and to show them that abuse is unacceptable, that a solution exists, that better life and better marriages exist. Because if you look at something like this all your life, you'll think that other people live the same way and that nothing else or better exists. And besides, my colleague, I think that when people get married then and some other affinities judge about it, primarily love, and not my attitudes about it and some women who haven't been lucky, but what you said was the problem doesn't show how uninformed you are and how lucky you might be that there are no such cases in your family. I'm afraid I've known them a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22399	Thank you very much. This seems to have been a mutual dialogue. Let's move on. Here you go, Comrade Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22400	Dear Madam Vice President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. When a man talks about this subject, then he exposes himself to two, two risks, which is that other men consider him soft, and women to be the washer of unclean conscience. I personally do not consider myself either, but I consider myself invited to talk about this subject by starting with those basic principles of the General Declaration of Human Rights which clearly state that no one must be subjected to torture or cruel, inhumane or humiliating treatment or punishment. But given that unfortunately, despite the civilizational development in which we are now, we are witnessing that the culture of violence and death is increasingly taking hold of the culture of life and the culture of respect, starting with the principle that violence against women is unfortunately happening where at least it should be, the least it should happen, which is in the family. And starting with the principle that there is neither development nor democratisation of a society where not all individuals are equal, all its members. Violence isn't just about women, it's not just a social sociological phenomenon. It is also public health and today is considered a problem that is considered greater than the public health problem of smoking or drug consumption, and is considered even from the latest data that the number of women injuries is far greater in the family than they do at work or in car accidents. When we talk about this social phenomenon of violence against a woman, then we should not forget that it is not only violence against a woman, it is violence against someone's mother, violence against someone's child, that it is violence against a family member, that it is violence against a family as a fundamental community, and therefore violence against a community. Both the community and the state that cannot see and recognize it does not really have a future, and it has been called on to recognize this problem to solve or prevent it. Violence against a woman is not natural and is not inevitable and it occurs in all social, all societies, all states. Now I'm going to give you some information that might be useful to us, let's say, so it's not that bad in Croatia. For example, in Bangladesh, 50% of all murdered women were killed by their husbands. Either in that same, pardoned Pakistan or Bangladesh, throwing acid into women's eyes was so much masquerade that they had to pass a law forbidding or specifically treating such a crime. If it wasn't that far from us, the following data say: in America over a million cases a year, a woman has been registered as victims of various forms of violence. I read somewhere that in Zagreb every 15 minutes there is a woman victim of violence. So something that's a long way from being a part of our daily life and something that we've heard here about prejudice doesn't belong to some socioeconomic poor country but also to the West. One, I don't want to repeat much about these prejudices because it's really a lot said, but in one of the leaflets of one of the curvatures that cares about it, I found the data, that in Croatia there is a specific situation because the number of violence is suddenly growing after the return of a warrior from the battlefield. I don't think it's true, and I agree with what my colleague Anticevic said, unfortunately in this country, everyone beats up. From workers, peasants, professors, diplomats, litigators and well-paid lawyers. How to resolve or help victims of violence? I don't think by self-organizing victims of violence, enthusiasm, NGOs, they're going to fail, not that they won't, but they're certainly not going to be able to solve this problem completely. I believe that the government is the most called upon to protect the weaker, protect the children, protect the elderly, protect the elderly, certainly belong and protect the woman from violence. Thus, in addition to the legal acts, but also the resuscitation or implementation of the law, one of the important tasks of the government and not only the government but also the NGOs and the media is education. It is education in the fight against prejudice, education in the fight against the acceptance of violence as something that is traditionally patriarchal or even religiously justified. The sensationalization of the public for this problem, and I believe that this proposal, which the Government has put forward, is certainly on this path to sensitising public, support and associations, but I also say by realising or implementing those legal acts that solve this problem. It should not be clearly forgotten that without ensuring a quality existence of women, better quality care for children of good law solutions this could indeed remain only a pro-climate act. So, in any case, I welcome the government's decision to draw attention to this one problem that has become our daily life to regret. And I urge that, in further activities and through what I have already listed above, different legal solutions to the allocation of funds for education, sensitization of the public helps to make this problem of course impossible to expect to be eradicated but at least reduces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22401	Thank you very much. Let's move on. My colleague Lucia Chikesh, please choose a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22402	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Croatian Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The occasion for marking the international day against violence against women was the 1960 event that took place in the Dominican Republic when the then dictatorship in a cruel way gave the execution of two sisters. So there was a great bloodshed in the city of Zagreb since September 22, 99, when three women, the victim of violence, were killed in a cruel way, a person who tried to defend the victim of violence. THE judge who was to judge the bully and who was severely wounded by four innocent dactylographers. Of course, considering that they were all mothers, that they were also children of their parents, that they were both wives and employees, we see what a tragedy is. And I therefore encourage the government's proposal to mark September 22nd as the day of violence as the day of fighting violence against women. That that day might be a little more intense, I say, just on that day, a little more intense and should be alerted to that problem every day. It is necessary to work on a permanent basis every day to keep this problem as small as possible, or to develop all programmes to prevent violence. Violence of any kind, I now say not only violence against women, but violence in general in society. The problem is how big he is, it's hard to estimate, because this phenomenon has a phenomenon of ice santa. Only the thousandth part is visible and available to our eye, and most of it is hidden, in this case for several reasons. The size of this problem and the number of victims of female violence from year to year are also being witnessed by the interior ministry's report. For the sake of comparison, I only took the figures from 1999 in our country when 452 corresponds to the number of persons damaged by the female compound. Four years after 2003, respectively, the number of women affected was eight thousand 209 almost 20 times higher. Is he really 20 times bigger or is that the consequence of just better detection it's very difficult to judge in this case. If we also consider the number of 12 thousand 260 and this figure indicates the number of total damages in 2003, then we see how large the percentage of women or women are affected. According to the World Health Organization, there are various studies, and these studies differ on average to say that between 10 and 50 percent of women experience some form of physical violence during their lives. However, if besides this physical one that is most common if we add other forms of violence, sexual violence, mental violence, spiritual violence, economic violence, structured violence, and we know that the prevalence of forced prostitution and trade and women is growing year by year. We can see how big this problem is and how much this percentage really varies in these range by researching the World Health Organization. In this problem, they devote great importance to the media. I was just for this debate during this debate and wanted to rely and carry out an interesting research conducted during February 2003. During February 2003, the analysis covered 5 daily newspapers that is Vecernji list, Jutarnji list, Novi list, Vesnik and Free Dalmatia. And a total of 123 articles on violence against women have been processed. What results they've come up with. This morning's paper was working on this number 23.6." He's been paying more attention to this problem. Behind the Morning List, the next Free Dalmatia is the same and the Novi list that published this problem was 19.5% and after that the Evening List and the Vesnik who, where this problem is 123 as far as I say is covered, were 18.2%. If the pages under which this problem is published are observed, then 93.5% of the cases are published under the black chronicle, and under other headings in all 6.5%. The vast majority of these articles were not announced at the cover station, even in 92.2% of the cases, and only 9.8% of the cases were reported. When a graphic picture is followed in these articles, then it is seen that in 62% there is no graphic display, that in 14.6% only a photo of the perpetrator is shown, in 7.3% of the photos of the victim, and the scene of violence in 8.9%. The widespread violence in February, when this research was conducted, followed both the size and population of counties and cities and large centres throughout Croatia. No wonder the largest number of such phenomena was in the city of Zagreb, 40.7%, followed by Split-Dalmatia County with 15.4%, Osijek-Baranja with 13.8% and so on in the size of the county. At least it's in mammalian-moslavina, only 0.8%. The violent act was most frequently committed, says 94.3% of the cases, and in only 5.7% was tried. What kind of violence is this? 52.8% are physical violence, 38.2% are sexual violence, economic violence in 8.1%, and psychological violence in 0.8%. If the victim's age is considered, then the most frequent victims are between 0 and 18 years of age, 28.5%, second place is 35 to 54 years of age, 17.9%, and then there are persons between 19 and 34 years of age, 13.8%. The age of the perpetrator. At which age most often, persons 35 to 54 years of age are the most common perpetrators and according to this study in 35% of cases. The following are 19 to 34-year-olds in 27.6% of cases, and it is very signitifier that at the age of 0 to 18 we have almost 10% of the perpetrators. Analyzing the types of perpetrators, most often it is a husband or partner in 25.2% of cases, secondly close relatives in 16.3% of cases, followed by an unknown person. There's an unknown male in fourth place, and there's multiple perpetrators in fifth place. Where's the scene of violence? The place of violence is the most common home of the victim, in the first place, the second place is public open spaces, and third place is unknown. It's significant that the unsub's car is in fourth place. What kind of incidents are we talking about? In most cases, it was murder, 26% of the cases were murder, 23.6% were rape, knife attacks, or other sharp objects in 3% of the cases. This report also followed the legal situation, and it was seen that 27% of these press releases reported the bully's verdict, that 21% of the cases were reported in the investigation, that violence reported in 20% of the cases. There is no doubt that the media need to report on this problem of violence against women, as well as on violence in general systematically, covering all its aspects, so that this violence would not become an acceptable problem, which would also be an acceptable phenomenon that would be tolerated and accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22403	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22404	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We've said less on several occasions about this subject, and we've all really said what we think, and I wouldn't want to do much of it either. I would just say that I support the marking of this day and someone today has already said that human history is in a certain way contradictory, because it has proved to be on the one hand a constant advance in the conquest of freedom, human freedom, and on the other hand, a constant increase, a splendor and a promotion in the promotion of violence by the same man. And violence alone means freedom. There's always freedom for someone, and it's not a phrase that if the other one is not free, we can't be free either. This is about a specific kind of violence that people have said, no offense to anyone, normal people, especially sensitive, because it's about gender violence, according to gender, which often includes not only women's sex, but also age, usually women's children. Whether or not women children are more victims of violence than men's children, what in one tradition, we can speak of our tradition, we have talked a lot about it, but also in some psychic constitution of our nation, if you want through our history, there was a spirit that excelled a patriarchal model of life, and so is a dominant role of man, and in such a constitution of opportunity, violence against women was common and we almost sometimes do not notice it and it seems to me that the worst kind of violence is the kind of violence that we do not notice. That is, the most difficult charge for one society is that it does not notice that there is no violence against someone, because it has become so common, it has entered stereotype behavior, if we can talk about something so broad that it is a nation or a nation or a larger group of people, because again we have big differences looking regionally, etc. In general, I don't mean Croatia now. But the fact is, when you don't notice violence and it's done, it's even harder for the one who's the victim of that violence. That so-called. The usual level is extremely important, so something, someone mentioned, the beating came out of heaven, who fights, who loves, la, la, la, la. So, the stories where there's always someone who's the victim and on the one hand someone's got a beating, and someone's holding their head and getting a beating on it. So, in that story, there's already a victim in advance, and all of this seems normal to us. That's what's worst, and I'd say it's not far either that even the laws sometimes, if we look through history, then it's certainly justified at least the violence of this guy we're talking about here. I will remind only of the medieval statute and the town of Split, which says, who would promise a virgin or a nun or a married woman or a widow, and she is in a good voice and fair, being punished even with 200 pounds of fine. If she's a fair woman, but not from the categories mentioned, then the fine for this bully has been reduced to 50 libars. If it's a woman by some judgment, those who judge it in an evil voice, then it's about that kind of violence, it's about raping us to do it. So then only 10 liras were paid, and if the victim's wife was considered a "public whorehouse", then only 100 salads were paid. Married and single men could have been unpunished, I quote: "lover, complicity or concubine", but, therefore, if it was proved nothing happened to him, but the one who played the part of the mistress, etc., paid the fine, should have been flogged publicly on city streets and kicked out of town. That's what I'm telling you, so even in our statutes, medieval men have been excluded. So if married to a woman, in particular they were rigorous punishments, then prove that she was a adulterer, the punishments were drastic, from physical punishment to exile, and if a married man proved it, he didn't even pay any fine symbolically. It is also interesting that the father could dissipate his son, if the son had a relationship with, quote: "a lover or a mistress of his father". Why do I tell you this, I quote, because here you see even morale is general morality, it's more of a doubtful thing, etc., but the position of man, patera familias. He has a role that Italians would say "falls of the paratroop", he was God's father, and there's something about it in both tradition and in these places what then in some people, the normal thing isn't about everyone but always about those we talk about as people against whose behaviour we're talking about here and we support these initiatives. So, but in one part of the people, that kind of behavior is justified, "what she wanted and got," "she wouldn't have been raped if she hadn't caused it," how a woman couldn't not want it, what I know about having sex with her husband, who asks her, has the right to punch her hand in the chiver, etc. You see, so that's the attitude that sometimes varies at the level of God's comical, to God, I don't know as purely as if we're talking about something far away, etc., actually I'm just talking about how much our spirit actually, over a long time, the collective spirit has gotten used to the normality of that kind of violence. And that's why I'm one of the ones who's been for the most rigorous punishments, it doesn't belong to this part, but it has to do with it, for which more rigorous punishments against all the bullies. After all, we live in a time when violence is pronounced, we talk about a specific type of violence, so we know, after all, that war itself is violence, and then inside it is the worst violence against women again. The most drastic cases of this violence are again against women. That's why I think that as a society that absolutely doesn't deserve to have a prefix, or that in any way it's marked by violence, we have to do everything so that those who promote violence, as well as those who are "national customs, traditions" or I don't know what, or some unwritten male "Tarzanic rights", are punished as drastic as possible, and for violence against children in this case we are talking about children of women's sex, but it's all the same thing as sex, and I am in it for the kind of violence when it comes to sexual violence to equalize with the death penalty because I think that these children are taking lives and the right to a normal life of such an act of violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22405	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22406	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored Deputy Prime Minister. I support and welcome the proposal for a decision to declare National Day Against Violence Against Women. I also believe that this September 22nd date is quite appropriate as a memory, one on the day when three innocent women lost their lives. One of them was a victim of violence itself, and the other two performed their duties. It would be the day that we would actually stop and imagine that, unfortunately, the present and present problem in our society, and it would also have to encourage us to each and every one of us to do everything that we can to prevent violence and help victims. We're talking violence against women here. Unfortunately, there is violence against children, but also violence against men. There was something here and it was about that. Surely violence against men is expressed to a far lesser extent especially when it comes to physical violence, but psychological violence, or psychological abuse, is certainly more. Violence against women is present in all the development stages of society and around the world, regardless of the degree of development and culture, regardless of national, racial and religious membership, and as an expression of one historical uneven distribution of power between man and woman. Significant progress in the plan of protection against violence has been made with us by the Family Law in 1999, and the Family Violence Protection Act where all domestic violence is spoken in Article 4 and Article 7 of the Protection Measures, which are certainly important that the abuser is now moving immediately away from the family for one or three months, then banning access to the victim, and fines and prison sentences, which is certainly all good. Besides, in addition to these repressive measures, this one must be important, and that's psychosocial aid. Is’ coming back after three or a month of breaking out of the family is certainly difficult for children, for the victim, as well as for the abuser. Certainly, one declaration of the United Nations Human Rights Commission is important here. It has been pointed out here on many occasions about the types of violence, so I'll just say it briefly. Because when we talk about violence, we always think it's physical violence, because it's actually represented in more than 53% of abuse cases. He's the easiest one to prove and maybe even the most drastic one. So we see that in all the reports in the paper in the "black chronicle" it is mentioned that, unfortunately, only then is it mentioned that a celebrity has abused a wife or another woman more or less. However, attention should certainly be drawn to other types of violence, which is psychological violence. It's mockery, complaints, harassment, public attacks, and they're present for sure, although some research shows that it's only 0.8% of the cases that actually say that this kind of violence has not been identified enough. Then again there were a lot of words that were also represented in over 40%. Then I would like to highlight economic violence here, which is to deny access to money, employment and education. I think it's the same violence with us maybe more pronounced than it's mentioned. In the near past, there have been terrible violence against women, so it is mentioned that 25 thousand women have been raped in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. That's really a startling piece of information. It was thought of here and girls not just women. Then, the trafficking of women is growing from year to year, and this is one of the important problems for both us and the region. When we're talking about the indicators they've had enough here, so I wouldn't even repeat them, but I'd just say one piece of information that scared me so much, that this violence against women is what we've seen almost 50%, but that there's also a father with 18%, and especially because I'm worried and what made me so particularly concerned is that my son participates in 13% of the cases. And maybe it's also worth the attention that the unsub's age, that they're persons who would say in the best mind and physical strength, but that's clearly what they're misdirecting. On the right scale, it's very difficult to figure out violence against women because it's an indicator and some research says that violence is actually three times more than official indicators because it's a small number of those brave women who are able to talk about it, because many victims are afraid or feel guilty or feel guilty or feel ashamed and I would say that the most possible feeling of fear is the most possible. Well, then they deny that kind of behavior. Therefore, violence against women, as well as society in general, would have been reduced and halted, in addition to these legal provisions that we mentioned, raise one public awareness and initiate public change, but also this proposal for a national day announcement is one step in this regard, but not at the level of individual cases that are interesting, but would really trigger public change that would deter an individual from violent behaviour and that would actually make such behaviour absolutely unacceptable and force the government and other factors to take decisive action to prevent and punish the perpetrators. Sadly, though, violence cannot be eradicated despite the above measures, I think that stronger and better organized aid is needed for abused women. Better accessibility to temporary accommodation facilities is the closest such institution in Osijek which is really remote, then it should not be about the operation of such institutions and even their work we are aware of some and we remember the inscriptions that certain houses were before closing because they had no means to work, I think that this is not only the task of the state but also society as a whole I think of donations and other kinds of help once word I would say that we should all do more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22407	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22408	Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is a proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Combating Violence against Women, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sent to the Croatian Parliament for adoption. The declaration of the National Day against Violence Against Women wants to be maintained, as the proposal states, a permanent mention of the tragic murder of three women in the municipal court in Zagreb. He wants to point out and warn about the problem of violence against women who are on a steady rise, an increase of more than 50% was reported in the first three months compared to the previous one. On September 22, 1999, a three-time murder was committed in the court of the Municipal Court in Zagreb during the divorce case, Mato Orašić killed his wife Gordan, Judge Ljiljana Gvalec and lawyer Hajr Prohić and severely wounded a notary Stanko Cvetkovic. Allow me this time when it is proposed to declare September 22nd the National Day of Combating Violence against Women to remind me of the broad issue of domestic violence, especially violence against women. At international level, the issue of violence against women begins to be considered more significantly at the beginning of the 1990s 10 years later than the most important document for women's human rights of the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women adopted at the United Nations General Assembly 18. 12. In 1979, which was ratified by the Republic of Croatia. This document did not contain provisions on violence against women, only the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 22 December 93rd by the United Nations General Assembly on 22 December by the definition of violence against women. As regards the European Union countries, the Council of Europe has placed the fight against violence against women in the priority area of action as an integral part of the programme for promoting equality between men and women. At a ministerial conference in Rome in 1993, a declaration on a policy to combat violence against women was adopted on the basis that the Council of Europe developed an action plan to fight violence against women. On violence against women in Croatia, more intensive and systematic activities began just over 13 years ago, the establishment of NGOs that began to protect women victims of violence. When we look at Croatia's legislation from the aspect of combating violence, we are going from Article 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which prescribes that no one should be subjected to any form of abuse and this constitutional right, the right to life without violence, developed in a series of laws. In addition to crimes related to acts of violence, a law of general nature, such as crimes against life and the body, against sexual freedom, against honor and reputation, has standardized violence behavior in the family, which defines violence, abuse or, in particular, impertinence towards a member of the family, with a novel of December 2000. Prior to that, the 1998 Family Law had also introduced the term of violence against the family for the first time through an explicit ban on the violent conduct of a spouse or a full - time family member. On 30 July 2003, the Law on Protection against Family Violence, which fully regulates the issue of domestic violence, provides for ways to protect family members and species and for the purpose of excessive legal sanctions. The Law says who is considered family members, and what is considered domestic violence, which is primarily the application of physical force, mental coercion, verbal attacks, insults, cursing harshly harassing, titles and other forms of other harassment. Sexual harassment, stalking, illegal exposure or restriction of freedom of movement or communication with third parties etc. In the material and legal regulations relating to the protection of women's rights, it is necessary to mention national policy to promote gender equality with the national policy programme to promote gender equality in the Republic of Croatia from 2001 to 2005. The objective of the programme is to promote and improve women's rights in all areas of human activity, to which state bodies, units of local and regional self-government, associations, NGOs and other institutions are encouraged. In this connection, it is necessary to highlight the important role of the prosecutor for gender equality and the Government's Office for Gender Equality established by the government's regulation in February of this year. FROM the above, good legal framework has been created to combat domestic violence but social awareness about the problem of violence against women in the family and society remains. So domestic violence is becoming more and more from a private transition to the area of public and thus the state is increasingly taking over and the duty of protecting victims of domestic violence should be assumed. It is alarming that violence against women occurs most often in a family environment that should provide the greatest security. Perhaps the very increase in reports of violent behaviour towards women is the result of more frequent reporting, but there is no doubt that a large number of violent people remain unreported and domestic violence remains only behind closed doors far from the public. It is an opportunity to point out that during this time of implementation of the Law on protection against domestic violence, a series of shortcomings and problems that make it in practice inexecutable have been observed. It will therefore be necessary to approach as soon as possible before amendments to such legal decisions. Finally, I believe that by declaring the National Day of Combating Violence against Women, the Croatian public will be further sensitised for such a type of violence as the growing problem of Croatian society and contribute to its reduction. With an international day of fighting violence against women marked on November 25th by United Nations decision, Croatia will be one of the few countries that declared it at national level by declaring the National Day against Violence against Women on September 22nd, and I will therefore support this proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22409	Thank you. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22410	Dear Mr Vice-President, she would also welcome Madam Minister, but unfortunately she has shown how much she holds on to the Croatian Parliament and today's debate, so she left the current debate in Parliament and apparently left for some important work.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22411	I'm sorry, maybe I should have explained. The lady was as long as she could, now she has a tight cabinet and she has to go. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22412	It's an absolutely important job to discuss the National Day of Combating Violence Against Women. But regardless of the lady's absence, I hope that maybe someone will read this phonogram, because I think there have been a lot of things in today's debates that should be taken care of. I think a lot of people before me have said that violence has nothing to do with being ignorant, being poor. Violence happens to everyone, it happens to rich, educated, politicians, professors, doctors, workers, peasants, everyone just because long before they were children, we learned that the problem can be solved by nonviolent means or they themselves were victims of violence, so they got one form in their family and they don't know about different behaviors. Before me, my colleague Ljubica Lalic spoke about the fact that the implementation of the state budget on the items of the family ministry shows that many of the funds intended for families were not spent. Ms. Secretary, while she was here, tried to say that the funds would be spent on some items. But I will say that, unfortunately, the item such as the affirmation of rights and the protection of children has been spent by 3.59%. Monitoring and improving family policy by 19.41%. The Government of the Republic of Croatia's Commission for Prevention of Child and Youth Disabilities spent only 0.24%. The quality of family life and the development of family services has been improved by only 1.30%. I will not protect those who have been abused in the family, for they were before the talk. This is actually saying that nothing is systematically done, because I think it is primarily necessary to talk about domestic violence not only about women who are victims of violence but finally have to start talking about where violence is started and where it should start and stop and what we are doing here. That's why I'm here to say that unfortunately what we're supposed to do is not working, namely the employment of mental health experts in primary and secondary schools has been stopped, that's something that the former coalition government has begun to do. The ministry has provided funds, unfortunately in early 2004 with HDZ coming to power from the state budget, that funds have been made completely unnecessary and unnecessary by Minister Primorac, and I argue that there are still more than 70% of schools in Croatia that do not have mental health experts and that cannot help children who suffer some of the forms of violence in the family. If there, therefore, in elementary and high school until children are cut off by a hell of a cycle of violence, we dear gentlemen can talk for hundreds of years in this assembly about why women in the family have been beaten or killed. Also in our schools there is nothing to be introduced, there is no child education system on non-violent conflict resolution, that is something Europe is becoming. Their education systems know that. Unfortunately, our education system knows only that we teach children information and facts that they will never need in their lives or in further education, but that we educate them about non-violent conflict resolution is not to be talked about in our education. In recent studies, for example. Up to 14 years old, 17.8% of children witnessed domestic violence, of which 25% of girls experienced sexual abuse in the family and 16% of boys. So basically every fourth girl and every sixth boy are in their own family by the nearest, so mostly father or one of the other male relatives sexually abused, those children said my colleague Jurjevic, they have a ruined life, but they are children who are such a pattern if with the help of experts don't clarify it and stop it in time, that same pattern repeats the moment they become adults. Unfortunately, I've been talking for years about our health care system having no clinical psychologists, and it's one decision he took from Blue Book, and Minister Hebrang for his first ministry as Minister of Health, and I have no hope that now something important will change under his bat in health and that clinical psychologists will enter the health system and thus help children who have experienced hell of sexual abuse in the family. I would also like to say that there is nothing to stop the buling in schools, therefore violence among children. According to the latest research done by individual associations dealing with this problem, research is, for example, stated that in primary and secondary schools somewhere around 16% of children act violently towards other children and with age, children who are victims of violence begin to respond with violence. It's that pattern I was talking about at the beginning, if you learn that violence solves problems and there's no other way of communicating than hands, fists and punches, then that child will also behave in his further life. 35% of boys and 31% of girls experienced violence in primary and secondary schools, and 33% of boys and 17% of girls are violent towards others. So without mental health experts who started hiring the previous government, and now the government has stopped, there is no movement and we will continue to talk in this Chamber and in all public places about domestic violence. It should begin to be interrupted at the earliest stage, so while children are young and where children are thrown out by domestic violence, either direct violence or indirect. And in the end, I'd like to say that it's really worrying about 58% of unemployed women, the total number of unemployed. Unfortunately, Madam Minister said here that this is one very large percentage. But I don't see anything being done on that percentage. Unfortunately, it's been spent for a full year, not a single credit line that has been implemented in the past two and a half years, and it's called entrepreneurship for women, so a certain credit line that allowed women who are at the Employment Service to secure their jobs at least themselves, and maybe in a few years then someone else. So the full year has been spent, nothing has been done, not a single drop in the project has been spent, which actually shows me that this government has no intention of dealing with the unemployment problem in this country, and especially the unemployed women who are 58%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22413	Thank you very much. The word now has a distinguished representative, Mr. Vice Vukov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22414	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday, at the marathon session of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities, we also had this topic on the agenda, but I must say right away, the length of the session cannot be attributed to this topic. In fact, we very quickly, almost without debate, accepted what the promoter has to offer. We have all raised our hands for this proposal for a decision to declare National Day Against Violence Against Women, as formulated by the Proposer. So we were all "yes" and that we were all "yes" made me think about everything again later. In fact, I've somehow articulated myself a formula that I still adhere to today. It is, in fact, that when everyone agrees on something, then it seems to me that this is exactly the right time to think about all the amounts. First of all, I think like some others who already said that at a board meeting yesterday, and today it was said in the Assembly that this "over women" should be replaced by "to women". Namely, this "over" is, I'd say intriguingly, picturesquely, and as if in some kind of socreatistic way it's depicting some kind of violence, it's making some kind of picture. Secondly, my doubts actually relate exclusively to the date. On September 22, 1999, there was a truly terrible crime that rocked our public. So in that sense that day, that date would be quite appropriate. What is left in everyone’s memory can also be conveniently used to promote and suggest beyond that day those goals that we are pursuing within this topic. But my doubts stem from the very explanation of this proposal. In fact, the proposal has already seen this, many have quoted, says that in the Republic of Croatia violence against women, here, you see, here, the proposer has lost the right word, especially physically, which is once again a subject for himself because there, this little depression indicates that other types of violence can be other than physical violence. That, therefore, this violence often occurs in a family community that should be the safest environment. Women, victims of violence are in a particularly difficult situation. And now these are all known figures and these percentages. In reason, therefore, we find that violence against women is an essential, or family violence a couple of excellences, which gives it a very specific feature. On September 22, 1999, a truly terrible crime took place in which three unfortunate women were killed and the fourth wounded. I'm not ashamed here to admit publicly that on the day that it happened, I had an inadmissible avian reflex. In fact, I regretted that our legislation does not provide for a death sentence. It was, however, a divorce case, and it was all a family problem, yet it was a public crime, in many ways similar to other crimes committed in public places over a number of people, whether women or men. And then such crimes, of course, trigger public emotions, get huge media publicity and attention, and now, well, I come to what I mean. Violence against women is, as I said, primarily domestic violence. Very often covered by a certain secrecy, hidden still in the good part of the cases of the halo of the sanctity of family life so that the greatest number of this type of violence by its profound nature, therefore, this violence by its nature, violence, domestic violence against women by its nature is not spectacular. It does not generally get media attention and parallel with this, it can be said that those who fight organised and systematicly against this violence most often in organisations, NGOs, civil organisations do not enjoy public support. Because the subject of their interest doesn't usually come to the public. In most cases, they are not faced with these notorious criminals, such as this man, but with the secrecy and under-citizenship of the godless protectors of the family community. It's here, so as far as I'm concerned, it's just a date. So in the end, I wonder, isn't this date chosen just because, because of its creepy spectacularity? He can be handsome for promiscuous political purposes. But I'm saying, I mean, at least, that he doesn't open a problem on his right side and he doesn't send in a proper message in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22415	Thank you very much. That's where the list of registered speakers is closed. I'm closing the debate. They'll vote on this later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22416	The next item is the proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Combating Violence against Women. The debate on the proposal for a decision is over. Please come in. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's vote. The result? I find the decision has been adopted 107 votes for and 2 abstentions without votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22417	We move to the 5th item of the agenda - Proposal for a decision on the resolution of members of the Board of the Pension Funds and Insurance Agency of the Proposal for a Decision was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Articles 96 and 97. The law on compulsory and voluntary pension funds. There are no government representatives, but they delivered the proposal. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on that later. I suggest that tomorrow we begin the session because we will provide a representative of the government, a draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Attorneyship, in the morning at 9:30 a.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22418	Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Board of Pension Funds and Insurance Supervisory Agency. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get involved first. The result? I find that the decision was made with 91 votes for, 9 abstentions and 4 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22419	Now, let's move to the 7th item of the agenda, - A proposal on the return of debt to pensioners - Proposer of the IDS Representatives Club, first reading, P.Z. No. 127. It is proposed by the IDS Representatives' Club. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the report at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion and during the debate, we will provide a representative of the Government in this debate. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? And moving on to the agenda number. - Proposal for a law on the return of debt to pensioners Proposing a Club of Representatives of IDS, first reading of P.Z. No. 127;
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22421	This is bullying.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22422	First reading. Bill number 127. The bill promoter is the IDS Representatives Club. You've received the motion for an act in the box. When adopting this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the report at the session, the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? If you want me to ask you, do you want to take If you want, I ask you to answer, do you want to take it? [[Employment: Injury of Rules of Procedure]] So you gallantly, I've asked you before than I've seen this tag. Please. Yes, you do. Here, before I give you my word, here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22423	Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, you have done a violation of the Rules of Procedure in Articles 208, 209, 214 and the entire Rules of Procedure in general. You've made a breach of the Rules of Procedure by not granting a request for a break. You took the right to interpret and explain what we only know and you with these arguments can never. As we exercise our right of business and call on the Rules of Procedure, since you have made the decision of the Rules of Procedure, we are looking for the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of the Constitution and the political system. And until then, we're looking for a break to show this committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22424	It is the Committee's duty to give an opinion within 24 hours on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. And it will be secured. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22425	We're looking for a break until then.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22426	I'm asking the board president to consider that. And now I ask the representative of Mr. Damir Cain to take his word and explain. Mr. Tonchi Tadic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22427	Dear Mr. Vice President, it is clear in the Rules of Procedure that when a club asks for a break that you should give it. It's not up to you to judge. If it's late, if you're already tired and distracted, then stop the session. I believe that what you have done now does not contribute to the integrity of the Croatian Parliament. And as a sign of passage, we leave the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22428	Thank you very much. Each one had the opportunity to report for a break, each one got the word, and no reasons were subsequent to seek again except for the obstruction of the parliament's work. I interpreted it as an obstruction of Parliament's work. And that's why I didn't say a word afterwards, although the lady was sitting there looking for that break as well as other clubs. Therefore, I consider this an obstruction of Parliament's work, and that's why the HSS Club didn't get the word. Because nothing happened in the Parliament in the meantime and that five minutes after the break, they would ask for a break again. I consider that a pure obstruction of the work of the Parliament. Mr. Caine, do you want to take your word for it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22429	Under these conditions, Mr. Vice President, it is not possible to debate and in solidarity with other opposition clubs I am simply unable to perform tonight in front of the IDS club for this speaker. I'm sorry but this is one institutional terror, whether you agree with it or not, and it's something that starts to offend all of us sitting here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22430	Thank you very much. The committees held a hearing. I find that the proposer leaves the Parliament's session and is not present. And we're going on with the session. At this point on the agenda. First of all, does the Legislative Committee come forward? Or work, social policy and health care or the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities? They don't want to. The government delivered an opinion. Representatives' representatives Damir Kajin, Valter Drandić, Dorotea Pesic Bukovac, and Valter Poropat left the session and are not present at this point as promoters, these agenda points. If the government wants a representative, he's not here yet. I'm opening a debate. Here's Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the HBSA PGS Club is gone. HNSA club PGSA Mr. Antun Kapavljevic is missing, losing his right. Mr Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the HNSU Club Croatian party of pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22431	Dear Vice President, I believe that after this debate, the taste of bitterness will remain, and I am not prepared to play with Croatian pensioners this way, once with the proposals of laws that do not have insistence, which have no resistance in the pension system and in some ways do not want to be a participant in which daily-political points are cheaply earned. Therefore, everything I have prepared in the defense of the Constitutional Court Act that we adopted on 15 July will not be said and I will only give up after I say a few words, from further discussion, because I consider this law the only possible solution, and all that is now offered is in the function of creating an atmosphere of conflict, creating an atmosphere that does not contribute to a solution that would be acceptable to Croatian pensioners, and I believe that there has been a time in previous council meetings a problem of more quality solved, precisely by those who attack the law that we made on 15 July. He is a good legal foundation, of course, with great effort to do, both by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and by all of us to solve the problem of compensation for pensioners. So, I don't want to argue any further, so I'm giving up further elaborate because this doesn't make sense. I think it could have been whether or not there's a TV camera on this thing specifically and correctly debated from a professional point of view, arguments, and if our goal is to make sure that everything we want to give to citizens is recorded, then I'm exempt from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22432	Thank you very much. Ljubica Lalic, club of HSS. She's gone. He's losing his right. Is there anything the Government's representative would like to say about the bill's proposal? Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Joseph Leco. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Mrs. Milanka Opačić. He's losing his right. Mrs. Dear Zgrebec. He's losing his right to debate. It's a famous Leticia. He's not here either. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Also, he's gone. Davorko Vidovic. Also, he's gone. Rose Lelic. She's gone. She's losing the right one. Marco Turic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Anton Perushko. He's also losing his right. Antun Kapraljevic. He's also losing his right. Is the government's representative ultimately trying to say something? Is there anyone on behalf of the club who wants to say something? Mr. Representative Ivan Jarnjak, on behalf of the HDZ Club for 5 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22433	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Look. In agreement with the pensioners, HDZ proposed the law passed by this House. What is the real possibility and the assumption that a problem that is a constitutional category and is a constitutional decision that has to be solved can be solved, and that no one else in this country at the same time is in a more difficult position than it is now. The government that was before us pre-election promised to repay the debt to the pensioners as soon as it came to power. She said, "I didn't even do it." This HDZ law has promised, made a law together with the pensioners and is working on the realization of the problem further. We believe in HDZ this priority issue to be resolved and it must be the right solution for people to begin to recover that debt. The government this proposal that is proposed here today is a proposal that is exclusively political, which, if adopted, is inconclusive, because it is asking for so much of the resources that this country is simply at the moment and the way that it solves in this way simply is not able. Not because someone wouldn't want to, not because we wouldn't want to do it right away, but for the simple reason that there's no economic background, which doesn't have a financial opportunity for this law to be implemented. Mr. Vice President, I think we should bring in this House, change the Rules of Procedure in terms of saying the Law that comes here, and there is no resolved financial structure in which it really will be financed, cannot be released into the procedure. This law is politics, it simply doesn't have a material assumption that it can be solved and it's not an attempt to solve the problem of pensioners, it's an attempt to plant a clip on the current government to simply say, that's why they won't, and we want to. Until yesterday they were the government, they didn't do anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22434	I thank Mr. Ivan Jarnjak. Here, a list of registered speakers has been exhausted. I'm closing the debate and they'll decide when they get the terms. I'm closing tonight's session. Tomorrow we start at 9.30 p.m. with item 6 of the agenda, and that's the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Attorneyship. And then there'll be more in a row, and that'll still be seen by the President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-05-0.u22435	Next Bill on Reimbursement to Retirement, First Reading, P.Z. No. 127. The hearing is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on the repayment of debt to pensioners proposed by the Klub representative IDS is not accepted. For the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government, reports to the working bodies. Please, peace. I'd like some attention from my colleague and colleague, please come in. To vote. Score. I find that the conclusion was accepted by 71 votes for, 4 abstentions and 32 gouts in the proposed form. We are going to the next item, which is - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship, first reading, p.z. No. 134 Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the SDP. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The hearing was conducted by the relevant committees. The government has delivered its opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? I call on the representative of the SDP Club to further explain the proposal. ... So he doesn't want to. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian public has an opportunity to see how the agreed violation of the Rules of Procedure and the business order wants to obstruct the work of the Croatian Parliament. That's why I'll interrupt the session in 30 minutes, and I guarantee you, ladies and gentlemen MPs, that you will not succeed in your intention to try to pressure me and the parliamentary majority to carry out your political will. The Croatian Parliament will function according to the Rules of Procedure it has brought. The mechanism for resolving the dispute over the infringement of the Rules of Procedure has been envisaged, and that is how we will act. I'm setting a 30-minute break.
