ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9626	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am opening the sixth session of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome all MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister present, Dr Ivo Sanader, Vice President and Deputy Prime Minister and other members of the government. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, given yesterday's significant day for Croatia's future, the European Commission's opinion with a recommendation to start negotiations on Croatia's accession to the European Union, allow me a few words. I would like to congratulate first, express my satisfaction with the results of the government's work which has succeeded in achieving significant and important results during this period, and in particular in identifying these results of political action by the European Commission. These results, relating to the adoption and implementation of European standards, standards of the European Union, the protection and promotion of human and minority rights and freedoms, the market economy, democratic standards, interregional and good neighbourly cooperation and gains of the European Union, are recognised by the European Commission on the way to the European Union and Croatia as a mature and democratic state that meets and which has met most of the Copenhagen criteria and other specific criteria relating to obtaining a positive opinion. For this reason, congratulations to this government, but it is also important and important to contribute to the previous government with Prime Minister Ivica Racan and the Ministers and the Government which has also given significant pain in fulfilling the assumptions related to obtaining a positive opinion and Croatia's entry into the European Union. I note that on 18 December 2002, the Croatian Parliament adopted a resolution on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union where, by the end of February 2003, it submitted a request for full membership of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, starting with the fact that this is a strategic, national interest of the Republic of Croatia. This is on the trail of earlier decisions, the state-run decisions of the Croatian Parliament, starting with the Declaration and the Constitutional Decision on the declaration of the sovereign and independent Republic of Croatia since 25 June 91 and the trail of Croatia's commitment to that historic decision of the Croatian Parliament since 8 October 1991. All Croatian governments have so far made a significant contribution to fulfilling a step-by-step assumption of Croatia's accession to the European Community of the people. The inevitable role is also for all Croatian Parliaments who have also made their contribution as the most representative and legislative body in fulfilling their constitutional role in fulfilling the assumptions that Croatia will become a member of the European Union. This is why today, given yesterday's day, this opinion and the views and the efforts of many generations of representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament of the past, the past governments, because this is a policy of continuity, that also representative bodies, are the most representative body of the Croatian Parliament, but all governments have acted to gradually meet the conditions and assumptions of accepting the rules of the European Union that we are and for which Croatia received a significant recognition yesterday. The head of the European Union Delegation, the European Commission Delegation to the Republic of Croatia Jacques Wunenburger, who also delivered the opinion of the European Commission on the Croatian application for membership in the European Union to the President of the Croatian Parliament yesterday. Let me read that short text. "It is a pleasure to forward to you the European Commission's opinion on the Croatian application for membership in the European Union and today adopted a proposal for a European Partnership. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Commission's opinion includes a recommendation for the launch of accession negotiations on the real launch of negotiations, the European Council should be adopted. The European Partnership is also, at this stage, a proposal from the Commission to the Council of Ministers to be approved by the Council. This document sets out the short and medium-term priorities to be addressed by Croatia on the road to the European Union. Congratulations to Croatian authorities on the persistent efforts they have made over the past years, which today have made this very favourable outcome possible. I hope that this determination will continue in the future in order for Croatia to achieve its strategic goal of joining the European Union as soon as possible." I also express my gratitude to the European Commission, which recognised the results achieved in meeting the Copenhagen criteria and other special criteria that the Croatian Government is under the leadership of the President Sanader and the former Government with Prime Minister Racan and the Croatian Parliament in the previous meeting and the Croatian Parliament in this session. Because let us not forget that the numerous delegations of the Croatian Parliament have also done a significant and important part of the work in various political contacts in these few months since the constitution, where they lobbyed in parliamentary diplomacy to recognise the fulfilment of the Croatian requirements for entry into the European Union, assured, proved that Croatia had fulfilled the lion's share of assumptions and thus reduced those reserves that existed in some international factors and that the Croatian Parliament also acted to recognise the credibility of Croatia's policy and honesty regarding meeting the Hopenhak criteria, and this also resulted in this positive opinion by the European Commission. I therefore express my gratitude to the members of the European Commission, particularly Commissioners of the European Commission, Mr Cris Paten, Commissioner for Foreign Affairs, Winter, EU Commissioner for Enlargement of the European Union, Mrs Doris Pack, who has persistently lobbyed for the recognition of Croatian interests and the result, and this great step towards Croatia with real assumptions that Croatia really gets the status and candidate for the European Union on the basis of these recommendations and in June, and the term of the opening of negotiations. So, in conclusion, respected colleagues and colleagues, I think that we can all express one great pleasure together to bring together one joint political work of both the current government and the past government, and representatives of the Croatian Parliament and the previous convocations and the previous calls for this to be a major step which brings Croatia as a mature democratic state to the threshold of entry into the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs will continue to work. You received the 5th session's log by mail. Any objections to the record? I'm confirming that we've adopted the record. What? Here you are, Madam Representative Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9627	Mr. President, I ask that an amendment be made, in the short minutes of the session in item 26, of the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the section relating to the participants of the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP fortunately spoke not of Neven Jurica, but of Neven Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9628	Thank you very much. Of course we're going to bring that correction into the question of a lapus camio. Any other objections? There isn't. I find that we have adopted the minutes of the 5th session with this amendment and the objection made. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I included four new points in the final draft agenda: Under one, the proposal of the Media Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 87. Second, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bulgaria on Social Insurance, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 86. Third, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Telecommunications, with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 90. Fourth, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, with the Final Proposal of the Law, Proposer: Club of Representatives of the SDP emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 89. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I note that paragraphs 1 to 3 and point 29. of those laws, which are proposed to be adopted by an emergency procedure, but those laws bear the P.Z.E. mark. the application of the emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161; We don't vote on the rules of procedure. These are under one, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on Film Co-production of 92, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading of P.Z.E. No. 70. Second, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Euro Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage of 1992, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 71. Third, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Aid Act, with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 72. Fourth, Proposal for a Media Act, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 87. The final draft agenda referred to in points 4 to 7, under points 11 and 12, paragraphs 21 and 32, shall specify the laws for which an emergency procedure is proposed. These are under one, P reglad of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro on Amendments and Supplements to the Free Trade Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading of P.Z. No. 80. Second, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act of Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading of P.Z. No. 73. Third, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 77. Fourth, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Agency Act, with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 76. Fifth, Proposal for a Law on the Termination of the Law on the recognition of the Croatian Parliament "Golden coat of arms", with the Final Proposal of the Law, Proposer: Club of Representatives of HDZ, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 69. Sixth, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, with the Final Proposal of the Law, Proposer: Club of Representatives of the HSS, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 65. 7th Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 84. 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bulgaria on social security with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 86. Nine. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Telecommunications with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 90. Ten. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code with the Final Bill. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 89. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? Here, on behalf of the SDP Club President of the Club, Vice President of the House, Honorable Representative Luka Bebic, please. HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9629	Mr. President, don't, I suggest you remove the emergency procedure from point 12. Proposal for a HSS law on state aid in agriculture, fisheries and forestry. Point 21. Proposal for a SDP law on areas of municipalities, i.e. counties, cities and municipalities and number 32 of the SDP in the Amendments and additions of the Penal Code because there is no necessary business conditions to be classified as an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9630	On behalf of the HSP Club, Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9631	The HSP Club opposes the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, especially in an emergency procedure. Namely, this is a follow-up to so-called. the case of Tchachi in a way to try and regulate the criteria for achieving so-called Presidential pensions, but a very bad attempt because only the part which the defence minister can propose is regulated while still remains that the president of the country can only do so initially. Therefore, this could have been resolved by an internal act, meaning either the president of the State or the Minister of Defence, and not that we are discussing it today in the Croatian Parliament. This is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9632	Are there any other MPs objecting to a particular agenda item and a proposal to pass a law by an urgent procedure? There isn't. Then I ask the Prime Minister, Ivo Sanader to be seen with regard to these proposals. In particular, as regards the HSP Club's proposal to remove the emergency procedure with.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9633	I agree with the evaluations of MPs, and I propose, or the government accepts that the law goes into first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9634	On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9635	Mr. President, I would like to show myself to the HDZ Club's proposal to remove the emergency procedure from the law proposed by the HSS Club. May I?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9636	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9637	Thank you very much. Well, the urgency of the procedure is very clear about this law. I think the urgency of the procedure is not only necessary. We know that certain payments that unfortunately do not come to our agricultural producers cannot be agreed on because the law limits them. Our law is therefore also proposed to go into emergency procedure to allow agricultural producers to receive these subsidies and I would ask that the vote to consider which one we find will again damage our agricultural producers because due to the unchangeable law will not be able to pay off the incentive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9638	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9639	President, all the conditions of business as set out in Article 159 for the urgency of the procedure of amending and supplementing the Penal Code and for the content, i.e. the content of the SDP Club itself, proposed by the SDP to sanction, modernise and adapt many incriminations above all, I will only mention the command responsibility of the new criminal act against humanity, this is one aspect, therefore, of this aspect of adaptation to standards and conventions which Croatia and signatories and, on the other hand, in a better way, incriminate crimes in the area of economic crime and what is most important for our citizens, I think these are justifiable state reasons that the deadlines are significantly increased in order for our judiciary to sanction everything that has happened in the last decade and more time. So, therefore, I mean, the necessity of exactly that kind of sanctioning, and before the deadlines go out of date, they're going to fall into the water and what's in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9640	Thank you very much. And now we're going to make a statement on some proposals to get the laws passed by emergency procedure. 1. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro on Amendments and Supplements to the Free Trade Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia? Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that 119 votes have accepted the application of the emergency procedure. The Government's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is going into regular procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks? Thank you. Against? I find that with 74 votes for and 50 against and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Financial Agency? Thank you. Who's against it? I find that, with 74 votes for and 50 against this law, it is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the termination of the Law on the recognition of the Croatian Parliament "Golden coat of arms"? Thank you. Against? I find that with 119 votes for and 5 against and this bill is included in the emergency procedure? Who is the subject of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry proposed by the Club of Representatives of the HSS? Did a representative of the HDZ Representatives Club file an appeal to the emergency procedure? Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Who's against it? Thank you very much. I find 54 votes for the emergency procedure, 70 against it. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament in accordance with 203, paragraph 2, I will do so. Who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on County, City and Municipalitys in the Republic of Croatia, which was proposed by the SDP Representatives Club? There is also an objection from the HDZ Representatives' Club to the emergency procedure. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Who's against it? I find that 53 voted in favour of the emergency procedure and 71 against, so I will also act in accordance with this proposal for a law in accordance with Article 160(3) in conjunction with Article 203(2) of the Treaty. Who is in favour of the emergency procedure for confirmation, in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bulgaria on Social Insurance? Thank you. Against? I find that, unanimously with 124 votes, this bill has been included in the emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Telecommunications Act, Telecommunications? Thank you. Against? I find that with 70 votes for and 24 against and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is responsible for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code with the final draft law proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club? We also have an objection to the emergency procedure of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I find that 37 votes for the application of the emergency procedure and 97 against this final proposal of the Law, I will act in accordance with Article 160(3) in conjunction with Article 203(2) of the Law. Rules of Procedure. Written objections, MP Rosic's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9641	Mr. President, I don't know how to, why do we always have problems with this count? There are no abstentions in the agenda, but those who do not vote shall not be counted in the Rules of Procedure, and they shall not be counted against them once, and others against them for.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9642	This is not a matter of any violation of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Rožić...... 'Cause I said here [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Who they were, who they were, who they were, who they were, [[Intruder: I ask to repeat the vote on this]] You can't ask because the decision has already been made. [[Intruder: I ask to repeat the vote]] You can only make a decision before it's announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9643	Before the decision was made?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9645	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9646	There were no objections to the agenda I proposed with the call for a session and this agenda was in accordance with Article 203(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. In accordance with Article 203, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure could now be given only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. As we have already decided through the vote on the emergency procedure, the agenda has been established in accordance with Article 205, paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure should publish a set agenda, so I suggest that if you agree that I do not read the full agenda, I should just announce that the agenda has been established as proposed in the final draft agenda with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much. The agenda is set. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin by asking questions to the government or to an individual member of the government. All MPs and MPs are familiar with the question of representation. The deadlines and also members of the government with deadlines to answer the parliamentary question. Let's take it in a row. The first one is a respected representative of Zdenka Chuhil, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9657	Dear President, the respected prime minister is members of the government with congratulations on a positive aviator. Let me ask the question of the Minister of Science, Education and Sports to Mr. Primorac. In 2000, the Croatian Parliament adopted a package of minority laws, which was completed by the constitutional law on minority rights in 2000. Surely all these laws were an important rock in yesterday's mosaic called avi. Unfortunately, neither after 4 years of the Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities shall apply or be applied in part from case to case. Most of the minorities who have organized education have no bilingual pedagogical documentation to date. No required number of advisors and school supervisors in the order of a particular national minority are provided, but on a day no one would understand or help us to work largely, it is a total of 3 to 5 employees for Hungarian, Slovak, Czech and some other minorities. The agreement for education in educational groups is waiting for up to three years. All efforts to resolve this in the ministry in the past term but also efforts already in the current composition of the new ministries have not provided positive solutions. I ask Mr. Minister when certain minorities can expect these small-scale issues for the ministry but for the schooling of minorities to be resolved without bureaucratic reservations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9658	Thank you very much. Minister Primorac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9659	Thank you very much, ma'am. I'd just like to tell you briefly that the intensity of this ministry is probably through interactions with my State Secretarys who have already visited on several occasions probably weren't with you, and I know what this is about. We were in Vukovar, and we were in several other environments, and we were very specific about the employment of the counselors you're talking about. Unfortunately, we are now at this stage and ahead of the appointment and employment of 19 advisors who will be at the Educational Office. Some of them will be in charge of this particular problem. Of course, the problem of the administration that I found at the ministry is also difficult for me, but I can assure you that even with regard to the criteria for the bilingual pedagogy that you said we were also considering Secretary of State Janjic warned me about it. And I suggest even this week now a brief meeting, of course during your free time, that Mrs. Ebi might precisely specify this problem that can simply be solved. I will personally do everything that this administration, especially with regard to the election of these two, three advisors, is really resolved in a few days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9660	Thank you very much. Honored representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9661	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, gentlemen, ministers of colleagues and colleagues. First of all, on behalf of HSP, I congratulate the Government on obtaining a positive AVI, but we hope that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also submit reports to this high House on Croatia's international position. So that we can discuss with all aspects the circumstances of getting Avi, as well as what awaits us further. And now the next question, since Minister Roncevic has no question for Mr. Prime Minister. They gave the paper the correct statement by Minister Roncevic that they would disband military aviation and the Navy. With regard to my particular question I'm asking on behalf of about 300 military pilots. In fact, the Armed Forces Service Act does not provide for a rule on airmen and flight services. Since there are no clear and precise rules of flight of military aircraft, pilots have been left for different interpretations of the law and their superiors. They'd like it to be regulated as soon as possible and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9662	Mr. Prime Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9663	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I'll take this opportunity to praise all of you also to cooperate in the acquisition of air. Because I think it's our joint success of both government and parliament and everyone in Croatia. Well, thank you, ma'am, for your congratulations. I will also benefit from the occasion and I will say that because of the international conference in South-Eastern Europe in which Croatia participates I was supposed to be in Sarajevo this morning but I have agreed with the organisers that I will come by noon, so I ask for understanding if I leave this after the break. If there's any question to me, I'd like to ask you in writing if one of the vice presidents doesn't answer. As for the defence minister's statement, he made a statement in the context of the reform of our armed forces on our way to NATO in. Surely the abolitions will not come with the minister's decision but will also be considered as a political but security aspect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9664	Mr. President, I'm not very happy with the answer because you know how many pilots have problems and are leaving their jobs. They're retired early. And the Croatian Party of Rights has created a diskette with problems and solutions, so I would be happy to hand this disk over to you afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9665	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9666	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Question for Deputy Prime Minister Dr. Hebranga. With great interest, I followed the presentation of your first project in the economy called the Program for the Opening of New Entrepreneurial Zones. It is a fairly impromptu material that even lists the wrong name of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. The programme also envisions an increase in the number of employees from 250 to 400 000 workers. At least we all know that there are over 600,000 workers working in a small economy today. The interest on entrepreneurs in the zones must be up to 4%. which means that those entrepreneurs who are building on their own land will pay interest minimum 7%- Tax reliefs in areas are intended only for those who carry out production activities while the service activity is cited, excluded. How are we going to treat those who create and produce software in such areas and we have them. The government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a small economy development programme last May, which envisions opening hundreds and 50,000 new jobs in the sector. Given that the new proposal differs from the adopted programme, it means that it has given up, or whether several announcements will meet the expectations of craftsmen and small entrepreneurs and start implementing incentive measures. That is, to pay the incentives provided for in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9667	Deputy Prime Minister Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9668	Your Honor, Mr. President, the question you've asked, Mr. Attorney, would be half an hour's lab, which, of course, I don't have a chance here. I'll just say the material that you got was working material was intended just for a meeting with the mayors and he just reminded me of my oral half-hour exposure. Therefore, the printing g bars for them are not responsible for what may have happened. As far as the whole program is concerned, it is based on the situation and on the takeover, I have said it many times, good projects that have been, but correcting bad results. Bad results are next. New business zones are financed in 4 years only with 87 million kunas which is well below the average of developing countries. In the new entrepreneurship zones, according to the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship's report in four years, only 12,000 new jobs have been discovered, which is largely underrated, or unfulfilled. Furthermore, the counties averaged a million kuna per year per zone for new entrepreneurship zones, well below the necessary detachment. The same goes for the state budget for cities and municipalities. At this point, we are missing more than 200 entrepreneurial zones according to the average of developing countries, so that I do not further list the reasons why we went into this project. The project passed a positive review of the mayor's meeting, passed a positive review yesterday by the Association of craftsmen at Velesajm, going to Economic Co-ordination today. All remarks and yours are welcome and will be included, because this project certainly needs to increase the number of jobs by the amount that is, by the number that is scheduled.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9669	Dear Representative Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9670	Thank you very much. Well, it probably takes me half a day to elaborate, but I'll just comment that these figures are incorrect both on the number of employees and on the investments made, because you didn't take into account the land and the infrastructure that exists there, and we have 188 zones, so the pure logic is that much more invested than 84 million kunas through land and through infrastructure. But you didn't answer my most important question. When you start paying off the funds provided for in the budget encouraged for craftsmen and small entrepreneurs, so please give me a written reply. These funds are secured by the budget. Let's just say in May, and we should start using the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9671	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9672	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Mr. Prime Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. First, on behalf of the CNS, I would like to congratulate Mr. Prime Minister on the AVIS won, and I would also like to congratulate the former government for making the most of its efforts to get the AVIS, and I would also like to thank Mr. President Mesic for helping Croatia get the AVIS. And now I want to ask Mr. Prime Minister a question, because it applies to many, so I don't know exactly who. During the privatisation of Croatian Telecommunications, they were full of the mouth and defenders and employees of Croatian Telecommunications, so it was said that they would receive 7% in privatisation and defenders, and that employees would receive 7% of the shares of Croatian Telecommunications. I'm asking the prime minister when, how and how much and if he's even counting on giving those 7% defenders and giving them the other 7%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9673	The Prime Minister Dr. Here you go, Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9674	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative and I thank you for your congratulations on a positive AVIS. And the answer is very brief and precise, that the government stands on its promise and on this agreement and we have just started negotiations with both groups and with HT and with the Privatisation Fund for each other. So let's go into it, it's a matter of time realisation that's going to come very soon, so we're going into this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9675	I thank you for your answer and for your satisfaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9676	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9677	President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, Honored Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen Parliamentary Representatives. Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, I hold in my hands something that some have called the book "Employment of Ash" written in Cyrillic, author of Nebojsa Ninek, former employee of the Refinery Sisak, a well-known great Serb who spent the Homeland War on war crimes receptions among war criminals Milan Martic and Milan Babic to carry out the task of the Serbian Ministry of Information, working intensively to bring down Croatia and spreading lies about the crimes of Croats against Serbs in the Homeland War. The reading of this author was also published in the province's military newspaper published by the information sector of the headquarters of the so-called headquarters. "Serbian Army of the Krajina". This book was printed in Zagreb in 98. The editor is Cedomir Višnić, today assistant minister of culture, and the publisher is Dr. Free Downloader today State Secretary at the Ministry of Science. Everything in the government that you're in charge of. I'll tell you all this after I've asked you a question to read to yourself the achievements of Chetnik propaganda and Chetnic lies. Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you a question, what you will do to protect the value of the Homeland War, that perhaps through the judiciary and the competent services of the investigation, the books are listed in this call which hardly accuse Croatian defenders Sisak, Sunja, Petrinja, Gline, and thus the Croatian State and whether you will take any action against the two officials in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. Assistant Minister of Culture and State Secretary of the Ministry of Science who made it possible to spread such lies and whether you, Mr. Prime Minister, are personally standing and supporting this kind of staffing of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9678	The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9679	I think you have touched several very important aspects of modern Croatian society. Well, I'll speak until the President of the Parliament tells me that I have to stop according to the Rules of Procedure, because the question is extremely complex. It's simple when it comes to historical truth. We were all witnesses of the great Serbian aggression in Croatia and we were all witnesses and most of us participants in one way and another in the defense of Croatia from the great Serbian increase in territory. Therefore, the truth about the Homeland War will be defended, it has already been defended here by a declaration that we all brought together several years ago in the previous assembly. It will be defended on all others, and in the case of those qualifications that are not acceptable to us in some charges. It will be defended in the end I am convinced not only of the political declarations in the Assembly and in other political institutions of Croatia, the representative institutions of the Republic of Croatia, but I am sure they will also be defended in that historical section in the assessment of historians and historians. Because whoever writes falls on his soul and is his personal responsibility. Personally, I don't know this book, I don't know, so I'm sure I'd be interested in hearing what someone's writing. But let me tell you something, dogs bark a caravan coming through. Croatia is independent, has received international recognition, has defended itself and created an armed force that freed the country in 95, and, in any case, someone would try it again, we would be able and able and brave to free the country again. I therefore see no major problems for the Croatian future, and of course we must do everything to defend the truth about the Homeland War. For the two people who were admitted to work at the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Science, we received checks and recommendations and had no knowledge that they belonged to any organization or act in terms of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9680	Dear Representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9681	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Government. It's about senior officials in the Government of the Republic of Croatia so it doesn't stay hanging in the air. But Mr. Prime Minister, from your answer, it is evident that Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and all kinds of Croatian regiments are rightly looking at a better Croatian future.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9682	Dear Representative Luka Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9683	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, members of the government of fellow Members and fellow MPs. I refer the question to the Prime Minister because I expect the answer from several ministries. In Croatia, unlike Slovenia, asbestos is not prohibited and is regularly imported from Russia in boxes marked with dead heads, according to Sunday's Council vote. Although Croatia is the signator of many conventions, the so far deposit "Salonita" from Vranjica was located in the open area of Mravinjaci, only 200 meters from the spring of the Jadro River, which is powered by drinking water, which also feeds our City of Split. Here's what it looks like to drive in open trucks without any protection or trucks without registration marks. Due to the ban on disposal on so far, dangerous asbestos waste is now being deposited within the "Salonita" factory itself in Vranjic, located in the village of Vranjic. I know you and I as little Venice. With the largest grain silo in Split. Here's what it's like to dump the current waste with a grain silo. And so "Salonite" as one of the last contaminants in the Gulf of Kastelan requires urgent intervention of all relevant and those who will prevent further pollution and those who will treat patients with severe asbestos disease, and bear the costs of all the consequences of such a condition. If the latest information we read in the daily press on crime is added to this...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9684	Comrade Roic, your time is up, ask a question. I'm a colleague of Roic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9685	... it's justified to ask for an answer. Here, just a minute. What is planned to be done to stop further pollution, suffer and damage fairly damage, and possible perpetrators of crime, criminal actions sanction, and beautiful little... Vranjica on the homestead of Split, which, on which the ecocyt was performed, was returned to the flattering term "Beautiful Little Venice". [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9686	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9687	We will answer this long question with the same appropriate answer. I have all the information you've provided, Mr. Representative, I don't, but I'm sure we'll answer in writing. But since a very sensitive issue of Croatian defenders was recently touched in a cheap way, I will also answer the previous question. It wasn't you, Mr. Trječević, who called the Croatian defenders in defense of the Homeland War, but we called it here who were then the legitimate Croatian state government. And if you use such political statements, I'm sure you'll get a negative answer from the defender, as well as some who tried to talk that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9688	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9689	Mr. President of the Parliament, you yourself know that this is indeed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Answer the previous question, so how do you manage this daily, this? ... What is not there, so it is clear in the Rules of Procedure that after a question and an answer can only be given a comment from the MPs. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If we're gonna change Rules of Procedure, we're gonna change, so we're gonna have to, please. Indeed, I ask that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system give an opinion during this session on behalf of the Club on this way, to answer the previous question during the current morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9690	The MP may express satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the answer given, and ask a question and give another difficult assessment, it does not. ... All right, the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure will take their stand on this. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The Committee on the Constitution, the Committee on the Constitution, will take its stand. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9691	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a 15-minute break on behalf of the HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9692	I don't approve of a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9693	You don't approve of a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9694	I don't approve of a break because there's no real reason for a break. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9695	Twice, Mr. President, has been broken by the Rules of Procedure. I'm looking for a break, once again, on behalf of the HSP Club. I ask you not to introduce the practice you are now introducing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9696	There's no reason for a break. Let's go to the House of Representatives, the Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9697	I've still got the right to show...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9698	If you haven't spoken, please, Mr. Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9699	Well, I just wanted to express the same dissatisfaction with the answer given, not because I expected the Prime Minister to be able to answer this question, of course, which is complex, but because of underestimating the question itself and answering what I didn't ask, I'm also expressing my dissatisfaction and I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9700	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9701	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First, let me share on behalf of the SDSS the satisfaction and joy that Croatia has received a positive response to its request for membership in the European Union, creating assumptions not only for the start of membership negotiations but also for many other benefits that this response brings with it. I am sorry that at this moment which is for us, certainly not only solemn but also particularly important, I need to ask the next question of the Minister of Science, Education and Sports. Mr. Minister, I don't know if you're familiar with this, but this 7th month at the elementary school in Skradin during teaching history in the 6th grade history teacher's work, as we've heard, a visual display of the materials invited a non-teacher, a returner from Canada, to talk about the historical dimension of his experience. Speaking of teaching, the same person created, apparently speaking so that four children headed by a girl, so a 6th-grade child...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9702	Comrade Pupovac, ask a question, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9703	...raised and asked the teacher to protect them from insults. That didn't happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9704	Ask a question, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9705	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9706	Time is limited, all MPs know that. Please ask a question. You've run out of time to ask.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9707	So these kids got up and left class. Does the Ministry, do your State Secretarys know about this fact and the fact that the board of directors at that school recently did not give consent to maintain what is legally binding, which is a legal religious teaching?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9708	Minister Primorac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9709	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, MPs and MPs. At the moment, I, and in contact with my secretary of state, have no information, and you know what is the very clear position of the Croatian Government in relation to minorities and in relation, especially in such procedures at school. I, as Minister, will, after the completion of the work of this Parliament, naturally request a statement from the authorities and in writing an emergency procedure I will address you. In any case, if there are any irregularities that have been identified, and you know how sensitive we are to the question of forcing children to work or be harassed, certainly that the persons responsible will answer to me and will therefore suffer the consequences. Of course, when I get to know myself what it's all about. I don't know right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9710	Dear Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9711	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I will ask the minister of environmental protection, spatial planning and construction, Ms. Marina Dropulic. Two years ago he entered into force and was in application of the Law on the Communist Economy, which allowed partial accession to the municipal infrastructure of illegally built buildings. The application of this law prompted illegal construction of buildings in all parts of the Republic of Croatia, especially in the coastal area. In addition, local self-government units are seriously damaged because they cannot charge for the funds invested in the construction of municipal infrastructure. I'm asking a question. What are you going to do, settle the situation in the municipal economy?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9712	Minister Matulović Marinović Dropulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9713	Mr. President, Mr. Representative. We have referred to the procedure of amending and supplementing the Law on the municipal economy in which we solve more, but only what is necessary at this time. One thing is to disable the connection of illegally built objects to municipal infrastructure. Why it was changed two years ago by an existing law, I don't know. But the fact is that it triggered a new illegal construction. In this proposal, amending and supplementing the law that you will now receive for the next session, because the law is already in the procedure, it clearly states that it cannot be done, that it cannot be approved and determine the penalties for those who are joining, but also for the utility companies that, in fact, those who are seeking accession and the utility companies that are joining it. In addition, we also establish a new standard for the collection of municipal contributions. In fact, it is clear that people get building permits from some, but on the basis of the solution, they do not pay for the municipal contribution. That's why we're introducing one newspaper, which is that at least the first, first war of municipal contributions must be paid before a building permit is obtained. There are three, four amendments to this Law on the Communist Economy that will allow for a real and more orderly situation in the municipal economy, but our obligation remains to propose a new Law on the Communist Economy, a new Law on Construction and a new Law on Spatial Planning by the end of this year. But also the Law on Building Land. We're going to propose all this by the end of the year together, and now we're just going to change and supplement those laws that need to be speeded up by building or disabling such an illegal connection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9714	Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9715	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. and I want to congratulate the Croatian government headed by President Sanader, of course I can't do it on behalf of the party, not on behalf of the Club, because I don't, but on behalf of my family. Now I ask the question of the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Cobankovic. The situation in Croatia's agrarian today is tragic. Never worse in the last 40 years. For 12 years, the Croatian agrarian has been run by a trade mafia that is highly linked to the mafia in power. No social group of Croatian society has been robbed and robbed in the last 60 years, especially in the last 4 years, such as Croatian peasants. Mr. Minister, three months ago, I asked you a question to answer, who in the last four years is 20 of the largest agricultural companies and 50 individuals who got the most incentives? Because that's where one criminal policy was being conducted. Now I'm asking you a question. To answer me in writing. What are the 20 largest import-export companies in Croatia, and who are the owners of these companies? Why do I ask that? This will expose all the misery and tragedy as well as the crime of agrarian politics that has been committed over the past four years. The highlight of that is that over the past four years we have imported food according to official data for 31 billion kuna. And at the same time, in the name of the incentive, we gave nine billion kunas. And in the recovery of the combinations, also according to official data, 6 billion kuna. The Croatian people, the Croatian Parliament, and in particular Croatian peasants must know the truth, who has run a nakradic and one criminal agrarian policy in the past four years and has conducted a party policy to state money? I'd like to thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9716	Thank you very much. So you're asking for a written reply from the minister. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9717	Your Honor, Mr. President. It's a question for Prime Minister Sanader. Croatian, honourable Mr. Prime Minister, Croatian Telekom was publicly denied by Deputy Prime Minister Andrija Hebrang, who claimed that 50% of the calls on Sundays in 2 in which the citizens of the list said about 95% against the refugee shifts of hospital directors came from 7 telephone lines. It was publicly proven that Mr. Hebrang wasn't telling the truth. And you'll agree it's not nice when someone's not telling the truth, and it's not particularly nice when the vice president says it. So my question to you, Mr. Prime Minister, is, what will you do and will you do against such a way of communicating with the public by, say, high-ranking state officials, and how will you contribute not to keep asking Croatian citizens, whether your ministers or vice presidents are telling the truth or not? By the way, what you have recently stated in the House is that you not only support but also encourage Mr. Hebrang on the shift of directors. Do you support him on this occasion, or do you encourage God to make such statements?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9718	Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9719	I'll answer, but if you're agreeable, Mr. Representative, since the man we're talking about is sitting here, so it might be good to hear him first, so me, I'll answer yours. And you don't? Would you mind if he told you his story about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9720	The answer is to whom it is set, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9721	I asked you as prime minister by chance about Mr. Hebrang, what you will do, if God forbid some minister or vice-president of the government other in your government in this way communicates with the Croatian public, will you as their boss, say, take some measures in such a way as in the family father takes towards the child.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9722	All right, please, Prime Minister, go ahead and answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9723	Like this. Since Vice President Hebrang explained everything about the case in an interview in Vjesnik. I don't find anything special to add, so everything he's said has denied these writings and comments that you've talked about and these interpretations. However, it is interesting that, in the media, different interpretations have occurred, including written requests for a guest of television to be seen about the case, as well as some other cases. For me, now not as prime minister, but as an ordinary Croatian citizen, it is very interesting that some 80,000 calls can be made in an hour. I called some friends and some other European countries, so I asked, did it ever happen in any show? I didn't get a positive answer. Of course, it can happen and everything is possible, but surely Vice President Hebrang didn't have, that's what I know, he had no other knowledge, but what you and I have, and what every other Croatian listener and viewer has. What he said, now he told me just before that he had been called and some friends who had passed on the information they had heard about, all of this means based on what he heard, not on what he knew or could know. He gave you an interview in Vjesnik about all of this, so we'll send you this interview as a supplement, as a written reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9724	Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9725	Well, of course I'm not satisfied with the answer. And even in one special way, Mr. Prime Minister has now given support again. Those statements that I thought he was going to build on. Otherwise, Mr. Hebrang said in public that, later on, by justifying himself that he had been highly positioned by a SDP, his friend said so. And I was told by a highly-positioned HDZ man from your government that it's really not true, that Mr. Hebrang will make it up again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9726	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9727	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Ministers, I would like to ask the question of Minister Hebrang. Since the current spill of the river is these days, whether the Ministry of Health has taken measures to prevent possible infections and pollution of drinking water in these areas and whether citizens in those areas can be calm about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9728	Minister Hebrang, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9729	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored Mr. Representative, on the same day when, when the water spill began, the entire epidemiological service was placed in the first stage of alertness, that is our constant alertness which otherwise exists and rises by different degrees, the first degree is the highest. The Croatian Institute for Public Health, County Institutes for Public Health and County Service of Epidemiology was put in place at the first stage. From day one, the population with drinking water is supplied where it is polluted, the drinking water status is controlled, the health condition of these people is increased, and now that the water has started to retreat, an organised field association service that will surely last for several weeks to come. In this way the absolute area was taken care of and controlled from a health point of view.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9730	Satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9731	Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9732	Honorable gentlemen, MPs, distinguished members of the government. I would like to ask Mr. Sanader, Prime Minister or Mrs. Ozbolt, Minister of Justice. Well, one of the most embarrassing events of Croatia's newer history, Croatia, which was the victim of a brutal aggression, is the murder of the Zac family. In 1991, the brutal killing of 12 years of Alexandra with 6 shots to the back of her head, her mother Mirjana, the note of Bena Hrvatska as if it were important to her father, Michaela, otherwise Croatian citizens, of Serbian nationality. What happened after that barbaric murder, we know, a crime, I won't mention who carried them out, they confessed, but for procedural reasons they were released. My question is next. When the State's Attorney's Office refuses to conclude an extrajudicial settlement with Gordan and Dusan Zec because they do not know whether the murder was committed in service or out of service, is your Government Mr. Prime Minister willing to agree to an extrajudicial settlement and pay the appropriate compensation to the damages and thus to turn one new page of Croatian politics to the claim?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9733	Mr. President?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9735	Mr. Representative, it's one of the saddest episodes of the past 14, 15 years and I personally and we're all aware of the tragedy of the Rabbit family. Our condolences is, however, our compassion with the Rabbit family, but it does not give us the right to have a state lawyer's decision that he has explained in a way that he says if, I will try to interpret it, of course I do not, nor can I speak for the state's attorney, but as you have read what he said and he represents the Republic of Croatia, I am about to understand this: the state is responsible only then for some act or does not share if he did so, if it was done in the service of the state. According to the state's attorney's assessment, this sad event, the tragedy, that murder didn't happen either at the government's orders or in the service of the state. If it were accepted, then, I understand the interpretation and interpretation of the state attorney who gave it in the media and in the Croatian public, if then any civil servant, whether in the police, were in any other ministry for all that he did and did not do in the service of the state, would be responsible for the state. And that's something about what he's warning the state's attorney the way I understand it. Any civil servant, official of any ministry, county, city, municipality, if he did anything and didn't do something by order or in the service of his work, would be responsible then for the state. Where would we come from if we accepted such a way of looking, that's what I understood about the state's attorney's explanation. Otherwise, I absolutely agree with you that one way or another should solve this painful case from our recent past.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9736	Agent Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9737	Thanks for the answer. I'm not happy with the answer. All the responsibility in my court isn't just for law enforcement. I believe that they are doing so because they are afraid of about a dozen requests for some other cases from Gospić, Sisak, Lora, Pakraska Field, however, it is not up to them to worry about the state budget. Croatia should rise above these events, because I agree with you, the crime could not have been committed on behalf of the government, on behalf of the Parliament, or on behalf of the states, but if the government accepts an extrajudicial settlement I hold that would be one clear gesture that everyone in Croatia would accept and in our environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9738	Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9739	The Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I must also welcome Prime Minister Sanader, Prime Minister Ivica Racan for a positive avis on his personal behalf and on behalf of the HNS Club, the PGS. My question to Mr. Cobankovic regarding the wholesale system, we have witnessed that Minister Dominikovic's question is being resolved that there was even a certain amount of money received from the European Community, so I am interested in what is with this money, why are there no wholesalers and when will it be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9740	Minister Cobankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9741	Well, Mr. President, Mr. Representative, thank you very much for asking, in any case, that it is extremely important for the development of the agricultural product market and to regulate the wholesaler system. But about all the details you asked, normally I can't answer athoc right now and I'll send you a written, written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9742	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9743	At the request of the HSP Club, I'll give a five-minute recess. My colleagues and colleagues are out of time for a break. I pray on behalf of the HSP Club, please, Mr. Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9745	Your Honor,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9746	My colleagues and colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9747	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister of the Croatian Party Club of Rights has requested a short break so that we can react and warn about the situation that took place a few minutes ago in the Croatian Parliament. Our remarks first go to the president's behaviour, the president of the Croatian Parliament of Mr. Seks, who, as far as I know, was in the Assembly for the first time since 1992, refused to give a word on behalf of the Club when the word was asked. It's not up to the chairman to assess the reasons why the club is looking for a break. He's right about that. Whenever the Club estimates that it has either violated the Rules of Procedure or any other reason, it has until now been a practice of parliamentaryism in the Croatian Parliament all these years and there is really no reason, there was no reason why the Croatian parties of law had not given their word. However, I also welcome this fact that after the HSP Club left the assembly, the president accepted that he had made a mistake, obviously while at the repeated request and the agreement that took place after the HSP Club left the assembly, it allowed the Croatian party the right to present its protest and the reasons for its opposition and the reasons for the first time we asked for a break from 15 minutes. The incident if I can call him that was the reason why the Prime Minister was dissatisfied with the answer to the question, after the Croatian party's representative, Mr. Pero Trčević, gave his comment. The Prime Minister opposed the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure to answer the second question, and then he stepped forward and gave an assessment that we in Croatia are party to the right, not because we disagree with it but that day is contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I have to act as the President of the Rights Party because the Prime Minister commented in his statement that it was not the representative of our party who called, who, I don't know, I don't know right now so that it would not be held to the word in the defence and creation of the Croatian state, but our representative spoke as a representative of the Croatian party's right then, Mr. Prime Minister, I must say that the Croatian Party of Rights has made an important contribution to the creation of the Croatian state and its defence and development of parliamentary, parliamentary democracy. If the issue of unpleasantness asked by a representative of the Croatian Party of Rights you could have called on, in the spirit of Article 183, 184 of the article, which means in response to a confidential nature a member of the Government may propose to speak directly to the representative or... a session of a working body in which the issue is common. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in the day when we have reason for certain pleasures for obtaining a positive avis, we have also had the opening letter and President of the Parliament which has not been quite usual so far because it would be good if we had had a debate about a positive avis, there are clearly questions that are even unpleasant to the Croatian government because not all issues can come from the ranks of the ruling party, the ruling coalitions that are holding hands with their questions to the ruling coalition, which is quite understandable because at the hands of the Government. It also serves “The current clock” and the competition of outwitting who will ask questions about how it will come to the order to ask the question, and so to the opposition parties, I speak in this case Croatian foreigners have the right to both, and, of course, the desire to ask questions which for the government do not always have to be pleasant and which do not always have to be technical, no, which can also be a content political nature. The question asked by Mr. Tradcevic was a sensitive political nature and there was no reason in the way the Croatian Prime Minister reacted, which he has the right to do in a manner prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. The way that is not prescribed by the Rules of Procedure is wrong, and it is especially wrong that after that, the President of the Parliament was not in the first wave allowing the Croatian party the right to express its dissatisfaction with such practice. We hope that these practices will no longer be in the future, and the Croatian Party of Rights will continue to ask questions that can be more or less pleasant for the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I hope that through this incident, this incident, we will be able to get in the way of, indeed, we in our club are, but we are opposed to the strict practice of based solely on the assessment of the chairman, he himself assesses when he can or can't use the business provisions. The Rules of Procedure are very clear. When the club asks for a break, then the chairman must give it away. I think that, in this direction, we should continue to work further and with, I say, expectations from the Government of the Republic of Croatia that HSP will very much continue to ask questions that will not always be pleasant because we also hold that the content of these issues also speaks about the price that Croatia had to pay to get a positive avis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9748	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, why is it necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure? The Prime Minister answered the truth after Agent Trcevic expressed his dissatisfaction with the government's response, he answered the truth after the MP asked MP Luka Roic. But a colleague, Miroslav Rožić, on behalf of the HSP Club, immediately asked for the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, and immediately asked for me not to wait for this objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 209 of the Rules of Procedure, gave an explanation but immediately requested that his opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, and that was therefore the reason whether or not the injured Rules of Procedure had been sent by the HSP Club to comply with 209. The Rules of Procedure shall give their opinion to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. That was why I held that there was no need for a break. And we must really regulate this issue and this amendment to the Rules of Procedure with a break. I am obliged to be president of the Croatian Parliament and each chairman to worry about the exercise of the rights and duties and obligations of the MPs, and it is the right of the MPs to ask parliamentary questions and to, and therefore, “The current morning” ends in a way that was headed and agreed in the best possible way. This way again calls something an incident means that a part of the MPs would again be left without the right to respond from the government. I'd like to speak for my colleague Tomcic on behalf of the HSS Club, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9749	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister. No matter what, the chairman has allowed me to go out for this pay phone, I still have a point to make. This is just a correction of a mistake. Mr. President, you deinformed the Croatian public just before you gave the HSPa a break on their requisition. There was no repeated request. And my date for a pay phone is without any additional request. But I wouldn't want to waste your time or my time. That in today's atmosphere when we are all satisfied that Croatia has received positive avi, and a positive avi means the European Commission's assessment of certain democratic, parliamentary progress by a particular state, there is no point in today's atmosphere in overcoming business. However, we must make it very clear that this Parliament has established a certain parliamentary practice that has a Rules of Procedure as we have brought it has not been brought by anyone else. And that Rules of Procedure simply has to be held by the chairman. Mr. President, you have not been able to allow the Prime Minister to, after completing the presentation of Mr. MPs from the HSP and following a question asked by the HSS representative, Mr. Luke Rojic, that the prime minister would answer the previous question. It's just the opposite of the rules of procedure. If we are not satisfied with the Rules of Procedure if we have the feeling that he is making it difficult for us to work, that this Parliament is doing this ineffectively then we should approach the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. We simply cannot allow Mr. President to go from the chair to the arbitration board and assess whether a club has a right or has no right to seek a break. And whether he needs a break or not should be approved. In order to get out of this situation as quickly and efficiently as possible, I suggest that you give yourself a warning for double violation of the Businessmen and get on with the work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9750	First of all, I did not misinformed the Croatian public or this Assembly because I was asked to see Mr Djapic again by the president of HSP. So I don't intend to give myself any respite. But I'm not going to assign her to you either. Because I have not yet given anyone in this House a reminder that I am the President of the Croatian Parliament these few months, unlike my predecessor, who was very betrayed in sharing notices. And as far as the break is concerned, it's a business practice, but really, for any reason, we're going to regulate it by changing our Rules of Procedure. That the chairman is a mere puppet who just needs to react like after Paul's reflex on it. Here you go, buddy Pupovac. Here you go, fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9751	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I have a need to say two words not about the Rules of Procedure. It's the measure of things. One more time here is allowed by some of our colleagues to allow themselves to believe that it is part of freedom, political, human, parliamentary, to insult people who, under circumstances, have assumed insignificant political and state responsibilities. Which, among other things, are part of that story that helped Croatia today celebrate the fact that it is receiving a positive response for membership in the European Union. It's a professor's word. A free Uzelac who is a university professor who has raised many generations at Zagreb University, and who is certainly a written man. Unlike some others who dare to speak in writing about something they probably haven't even read.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9752	You should close your hearing with your colleague Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9753	Are we, like, some time ago, going to name all the people who represent the responsible people in some publishing house as at a time of communism because a book was published?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9754	I gave Mr. Pupovac my word because he asked for it on behalf of the Club, Mr. Pupovec, please tell me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9755	Mr. President, I can say what I wanted to say here at the press conference and I'm going to do it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9756	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9757	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am going to contribute to trying to calm the situation that has been done by both the presidents of the HSPA and the HSS. I am but for the record, I would like to say, after my reply to Mr. Representative, who is in line with the Rules of Procedure that we brought to the last meeting when I was a representative. Which should have only been made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure not to go further, but to express his satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the answer. He did not stay on it, I was wrong to ask Agent Rojic to answer the Dealer's question. But that was all I had left. I took advantage of that opportunity. It's not right. I admit it's not right. But I'm also asking you for the government's dignity, if you really respect the Rules of Procedure, there's no problem. To be said, satisfied or dissatisfied with the answer. But if, after that sentence, you have to give us an opportunity simply to correct the Government of the Prime Minister or any minister to answer that question. That's the problem that exists in this Rules of Procedure. That problem existed yesterday, in the last term, it exists today. I ask you if you want not to be really political but to debate politically, to discuss it, and it is completely irrelevant to agree with Djapic, there are pleasant, negoods I am ready to answer any questions. I don't care how they're internalized. But give us a chance that after the representative says whether he eats or isn't satisfied, and then he breaks the Rules of Procedure because another question or your comment gives us an opportunity to answer that question. Here's what I'm asking you on behalf of the government, these others, the third one tomorrow, any one of them. I think that's correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9758	Okay. Gentlemen, shall we now continue with the polemics and corrections of incorrect allegations about this? Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9759	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, for your information, I'm going to quote an article in the 180th that he says. The representative may express satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the answer to the parliamentary question, by giving reasons of 1 minute. So it's not about one sentence and it can only be said. Therefore, the MP did not violate the Rules of Procedure in his comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9760	Choose your colleague, Pejo Trječević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9761	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I must correct Mr. Pupavec's guilty allegations that it was me who insulted someone. I'm sorry, you have a phonogram. You can see that I didn't insult anyone or any of the officials. I was merely stating facts and documentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9762	Representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9763	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. My question is to direct the Minister of Justice to Mrs. Vesni Skare-Ozbolt. The question is: Since the signing of the basic Agreement on the peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Danube, more commonly known as the Erdutic Agreement, it has been nine years. It re-integrated six years ago, and many of the provisions of this agreement have long been consummated. Since a constitutional law on the rights of national minorities as a pro-European law has been adopted in the previous assembly, I wonder if the Erdut Agreement is still valid or has been spent long ago. This is particularly interested in numerous werewolf returnees who are very often waved in front of their eyes by this very document.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9764	The Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9765	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, I think we've answered the question of the importance of the Erdut Agreement many times, and I think even in writing in the materials in the previous sessions, the answer has been delivered whether the Erdut Agreement is valid or not. The Erdutic Agreement was an international character agreement worth years plus years and by completing peaceful reintegration it ceased to apply. However, many parts of the Erdut Agreement before the very end of peaceful reintegration became part of the letter of intent of the Government of Croatia on the completion of reintegration and they continued through the government letter, and when you ask me about the Erdut Agreement itself, it ceased to apply as an international document.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9766	Madam Minister, I am pleased with your response and I thank you on behalf of all the werewolf returnees and on my personal behalf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9767	Honorable representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9768	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, once again, the satisfaction of the AVIS or the opinion, or the ticket, I don't know why the foreign word should be used, but let's remember that it is primarily a commitment and responsibility, and not some new totem that should be played with and do folk celebrations. But that's exactly why I'm asking. I hold it in my hand, and it's become popular that with some papers we keep taking pictures on TV, but here's really an important document, it's the government's 2003-2007 programme. Of course, the programme adopted here, which represents a commitment and which is assumed then if it is a European spirit realised here in Croatia, to represent as I said both obligation and responsibility. Here's what's under the 3.5th farm in the Vlae programme accepted here in the Parliament. In order to ensure a faster, simpler, cheaper and more efficient support system for small and medium and family economies, the Government plans to set up agro-bank. To start an agro bank. They encourage faster adaptation and more active role of the banking sector in the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in agriculture. So it's a project that no doubt means an extremely important circumstance for not only development but just the take-off of Slavonia and Baranja, that also Osijek should be the headquarters of this bank. But Mr. Prime Minister with his team in Osijek, unfortunately without the public...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9769	Ask a question, please. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9770	I'll set it up, but I'd like the Prime Minister to hear me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9771	Time's up, ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9772	I ask the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9773	Set him up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9774	So don't be mad at God.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9775	I'm not mad at anything. Ask a question, you're out of time to ask questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9776	So my question is, why in Osijek without the public, without the media at the government meeting and Prime Minister Sanader's discussion on this topic on the draft agro-bank was said that there would be nothing of it, or...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9777	Thank you very much. Go ahead, Prime Minister. Thank you very much, dear colleague Herman. You're running out of time to ask questions. The time to ask questions is not for me to determine but for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9779	My colleague Shakespeare, you're as pale as a rag.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9780	On that pale, about that. Not to tell you which verb the second or the noun.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9781	Okay. Mr. President, the Honorable Representative Herman is right in that part of his question when he finds out that we have held one, I would call it a very good and fruitful meeting in Osijek where the parliamentary representatives of all political or most political parties, can't remember now which, but in the presence of mayors, mayors, where we were considering the project of setting up agro bank. In this conversation, very serious remarks were made on the project. In those remarks, I won't bring them out here, but we can elaborate them. The comments were also agreed by the current Osijek-Baranja Mayor, Mr. Bubalo, who himself comes from the financial profession and financial circles, banking circles. So a man who not only behaves an extremely important duty in Osijek-Baranja County but also a man who is much better than others who are not of this profession, knows what it is. To his presentation as I recall, you had no more serious objection, so I would be interested, personally, in this government that was intending to continue to have an intention, because that is the plan, for this term of office in 2007, we still have a intention, but we want to reach a consensus first of all. So at this point and that's what directly, my answer to your question. At this point, the profession regarding the establishment of agro-bank is completely opposed to the tendency, i.e. mostly to say that the majority is against it. We have not made the final decision, and in this context I call you if you have new knowledge, if you have new aspects of the whole project, give them to us, we have not given up, but therefore still the decision to set up agro-bank has not been made, because the profession is mutually opposed, financial circles, financial experts, banking experts, bank experts are opposed to the views and in the evaluations of such a project. Here's the truth. I am also interested in every new contribution to finally making a joint decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9782	Agent Herman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9783	I find it hard to believe because I express my dissatisfaction that experts, even financially, were not consulted at the time when the government's programme was drawn up, and particularly when it was presented, and especially when it was accepted. So what happened afterwards really sounds a little contradictory. Yes, there are circumstances that can help as you said to Mr. Prime Minister and I expect you to call me if it's not rude, I hope it's not in seven days, so we can talk. There'll be opportunities for the experts to jump in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9784	Thank you very much. A parliamentary question, a respected representative, Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9785	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the government. I have a question for Mr. Prime Minister. During the election campaign, Mr Sanader told and told the citizens and citizens of Croatia that you did not agree with the free formation of the price of oil products based on the market and you created the impression that you would reduce the price of gasoline, reduce the price of oil, reduce the price of gas. However, today we are witnessing that the application of this particular market-based pricing policy, which was only a crackdown, was also supported by the European Commission in yesterday's avis, in your 100 days the INA authorities have already increased the price of oil derivatives several times, for example in recent weeks. So, Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you, given your election messages, will you change the way the price of oil derivatives is formed and re-introduce state interventions to the free market, or will you give up your electoral messages and bunker Pinocchio? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9786	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9787	Miss MP, you're wrong. You misquoted our election messages. So, here's the deal. We will neither give up our electoral messages nor give up our free market price formation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9788	Representative Marija Lugarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9789	Yeah, well, I have to admit that I'm happy with the answer because Prime Minister Sanader finally confessed here, and signed the posters with Pinocchio. We had some long, short legs there. And I'd just like to say that it would be good for all of us, and especially for the government to look at it a little bit, and even those funny posters, and remember what she promised the citizens and told them she would do and that she keeps reminding herself of what she's saying in the context of what she's doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9790	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9791	My colleagues and colleagues, as... /Speakers speak out loud. /, please peace. My colleagues and colleagues, as a representative of the Croatian Party of Rights who regularly maintains office days for Croatian citizens, can first conclude that the rule of law does not work in the way it should, i.e. that the state administration does not do its part of the work as it should, there are many examples. One example is the one that you probably know, that a large number of Croatian citizens are due to the so-called ". the alleged debt of kuna, two or three, and, as a result of the interest rate, interest rate, bank racketeering, savings and other legal and physical persons, was left without the property so that the debt in so-called in executive procedures, there has been an increase in one-off amounts. And, behold, no one in the state has done anything about it, as a result of that is the fact that we no longer have state banks, and the only state bank we have is the one that is cramping in certain problems. And now, with the right of these citizens, they say, and also the judges, watch as the state jumps right away when as a result of such interest, someone took advantage of that opportunity and brought in one of the leading banks that she must also file her own bill in the way she's worked so far. All of this is, therefore, one consequence of non-functioning of the rule of law and therefore I ask whether the government is considering creating a real Croatian bank, a state, such as the Croatian Post Bank, and if it is considering, whether the assets which are partly channelled through the Industrial Bank which is not our bank will be transferred to that so-called State Bank, such as the Croatian Post Bank, and in this way we can also protect the interests of Croatian citizens. Or if he's in a state bank then the government can react, and so can the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9792	What's the question? ... And you have to tell who you're referring to. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9793	Mr. Shuker, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9794	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9795	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. As for the legal interpretation of Article 3 on tightened interest rates, the former government converted and placed it in a drawer nine months ago. So that interpretation finally saw the light of day, and what this government wants to do is make a new law on tight interest. I'd like to say something when I talk about these tight interest rates, the comfortable and proportionate way of calculating interest. The comfortable method of interest is favourable for up to a year and is used for up to a year, and over a year is used proportionally. However, the basic problem of the billing in recent years of tight interest is inflation in 1992 when the interest rate reached up to a thousand percent. The main problem was the revaluation of the principal and then the accounting of such interest and what happened. And as for the State Bank, it was a project that was very interesting and it was very convenient to do it two years ago when we set out to amend the Law on Payments. When we only changed the names of those who make payments. They're not people's names anymore, they're bank names, and basically nothing's changed. I think that the use of the infrastructure of the former ZAP and the Post Office Bank should be considered at that point and then a strong Croatian bank could be made, but at this point it is not an idea that this government is not dealing with, which this government is not considering.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9796	A colleague of Kovačević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9797	Well, I'm partially satisfied, but I didn't get a concrete answer, is it really going to go to the creation of a real state bank where the state budget funds will be placed, not private banks?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9798	Honorable representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9799	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm asking Mr. Coffankovic. So far, damage from floods on agricultural areas has been estimated at around 2 billion kuna, in which Slavonia suffered the worst, and I will especially single out the area of Pakrac and Lipik, Pleternica, Kutjeva and Caglin in Požega-Slavon County, where the condition of the elemental disaster has been declared. The worst were the winters of wheat culture and sugar tails, which were up to 90% heated before the rain started, and the fields are underwater. In the area of only the Kutjeva vanat in Caglinski and Pleernički end, about 700 hectares of which 400 were sown were flooded. In Požega-Slavonska and Brod-Posavina County, about 30% of agricultural areas are estimated to have died. The regions of Nasic and the Đakovština have also suffered significantly, and the stream of the river Vuka, as well as the valley of Jasenovac. The damage could be even bigger than it seems right now because there is too much moisture in the soil that suits the development of weeds and diseases, and even the rain can't spray the trees, which is why it is later expected to occur in fungi. The question is, does the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry have more precise data on the damages and potential damages of Croatian citizens, i.e. in view of summer droughts and spring floods affecting especially Slavonia, does the Croatian Government have a solution to the protection of such natural disasters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9800	Minister Cobankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9801	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam representative, I'll try to answer your question. We are aware of the consequences resulting from heavy rains, and we are aware that this situation in some areas has really taken on the scale of elemental disasters. Accordingly, we expect the mayors from certain areas to declare the state of the elemental disaster, to carry out accordingly, the Commission for a list of damages to carry out the damage record and, normally, that the Ministry will find certain forms together with the Government to compensate for the damage caused by these proportions because it certainly takes the situation of the elemental accident in some areas. On the other hand, I think the more important part of this second part of your question is, what do you do to make that kind of damage happen to us, that kind of proportion no longer happens to us? On the one hand, it's impossible to avoid the damage when in one day what happened in Pacrac and Lipik's space, when it fell, I don't know, 90 more liters of rain, which rains, which beats. It's really something you can't get rid of. But on the other hand, I think that a lot of things could be solved one way, I would say, by the right way of taking care of not only, taking care of the situation and the state of the channel network, which, unfortunately, we have been finding out for a long time, but we haven't done enough activity to bring that channel network to its end. And for these very reasons, one of the main activities in our next period will be solving, the issue of the channel network, and one more detailed solution to the issue of the channel network on the one hand. And on the other hand, we've been in a conflict since last year. Last year, we had an elemental drought. It means that this very project, which the Croatian government has drawn as its priority for irrigating agricultural areas, has just shown the correctness of leading one of these complex projects in which it must be taken into account not only how water is irrigated and brought to agricultural land, but also all aspects of the necessary disposal. and therefore our expert team will develop a master irrigation and conservation plan for agricultural areas in Croatia this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9802	Honorable representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9803	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm pleased with the answer. Because given the climate change that has taken place, it is very important that this second part, which Mr. Minister explained, is the direction of the Croatian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9804	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Plesko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9805	Dear Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, members of the government. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on the great success of our foreign policy, but also on the determination to keep our pre-election promises. During this current morning, I wanted to ask Minister Kalmet a question, but as he is on a mission, means absent from the Croatian Parliament, please respond from the Ministry's representative, if this is from the resor of the respected representative. And if it isn't, then please write to me as soon as possible. The question is: Over the past few months, there have been several contradictory information on the continued construction of the Krapina highway border crossing of Macelj. It was spoken through the media about various segments of the contract with Walterbau, but also different terms of the start of works on that section of the highway. The same if I am interested in the possibility of participating in this large project of companies from the Republic of Croatia, as well as in the entire Croatian Zagorje. And I am also interested in how parallel roads will be arranged which will probably be partially destroyed through the whole project or will be devasted and can no longer be used in the way they have been used so far. I'm asking you to answer me how exactly is the situation for the realization of this project? Because I remind you that this is one of the crucial issues for the Krapina-Zagorian County economy in the next few years, and we are all both politics and the economy and everyone else interested in the exact state of things and the exact information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9806	Thank you very much. The representative shall answer questions referred to the Government by the President or a member of the Government. The question referred to by the individual minister is answered by the minister. Who are you asking? Minister Calmeta's gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9807	The Secretary of State. So I'm asking the Secretary of State to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9808	We'll answer in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9809	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9810	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9811	President-in-Office of the Parliament, Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Before asking questions, I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister, Mr. Sander and his government, and then to Mr. Racan and his members of the government, formerly and Mr. Mesic, on his successful opinion of joining the European Union. My question concerns the regulation on the award of concession approval on the maritime good, that is the "National Journal" 36/2004. Article 4(1), where it states, that the award of a concession for the exercise of activity, the carriage of passengers by a motorboat is the responsibility of the Council where the number is entered. Which means where's the number? In Split-Dalmatia County we have 20 municipalities and towns coastal, and the city of Split grants concession approvals and funds for all these municipalities. I think that already, my local unit has made a request to amend that article, for a simple reason, as in my local unit's territory there are 130 ships and about 1600 passengers are registered, and that's 100 kuna per passenger all assets belong to the city of Omis, so the city of Split. So for all 28 municipalities, the city of Split grants concessions. It is our proposal that concession approval be granted by that municipality in whose area is the registered ship and home port of residence, i.e. crafts registered. So I'm asking Mr. Sander a question, because we've already sent that remark. Will our remarks be accepted on this, the government's concession order?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9812	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9813	Well, first of all, Mr. Representative, thank you for your congratulations on this joint success. I, I must, I must say, at this point, the government has made no final decision. I know your suggestion. He's personally very close to me, and we'll consider and make a very nearly decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9814	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9815	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm referring the question to the Prime Minister. Namely, once again about the family of the tragedy of the Rabbit. You replied to Agent Cain, why the state wasn't responsible. However, the fact remains that the crime took place. We all know who's responsible, who committed the crime. But we also know that no one is punished. And he's not punished, I dare say the cardinal mistakes of the then state's attorney. It is precisely the reason for the responsibility of the state, and on this basis the state must pay for the damage, I would say primarily as a moral act, because no one can make up for the tragic loss of parents and sisters. I ask you, Mr. President, will this government pay for the damage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9816	I must express my deep regret for the re-politicization of this case. This is one human tragedy that has happened, one crime that has happened that we all condemn, and we all express our sympathy with the members of the Rabbit family, because it has happened to their loved ones. However, I cannot, as the head of the executive authority, comment on the judicial authority, because in Croatia we have opted for a trinity of power and we must respect it until the end. Neither could my predecessor. Neither could my successor. Therefore, we stand firm at the stand. That if it's a state, I can only quote the state's attorney again, who put his opinion out in public these days. That if a civil servant committed a crime, some inaction in the service of the state by order of the state as that official, then of course the state would answer. If he didn't do it, then the state can't answer. I repeat, it is not my position, it is the interpretation of a state lawyer representing the Republic of Croatia. I have no intention of meddling in the judiciary and that part of the government. Nor do I think it's a good idea for us to talk about it here. We can talk about humanity, we can talk about our feelings. And I answered the question of Agent Cain a little while ago, that I agree with him and with you, that in one way or another, we have to resolve this issue. But not in a way to accuse the state, but, because then it really should be determined whether these officers did it by the order of the state, did they commit by someone's order in the state government system? If they are, then the state will answer. If they're not, like some cop today can do any misdemeanor, anywhere, is it by the fact that he's a state police officer responsible for that? If, if, please, is he a private person besides being a cop? Therefore, we, too, will follow the court's decision, the decision of the judicial authorities, and I repeat once again, I have the right to my opinion as a citizen, as a man, it agrees with you and there is no difference between us. I can once again express my regret and say that we're going to consider whether there's any way that we can really end this case in this sense. But I cannot accept the interpretation of a state lawyer representing the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9817	Here you go, fellow Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9818	Thank you very much, I agree with you, Mr. Prime Minister, that there is no need, nor does the law allow you to enter the second segment, but here it is obvious that it is the cardinal error of the then state attorney and I have told you about the moral act. So for this reason, I appeal to do so through the moral part of this case exclusively.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9819	My colleague Gavran, I happened to be a state attorney or a public prosecutor of the Republic of Croatia myself at the time. From April 10, 92 to August 16th that same year. For your information, this is not about any cardinal error of the state's attorney at the time, but about what's been heard a hundred times in the Croatian public, it's documented, that the investigating judge has heard the defendant's indictee for the crime, heard them without the presence of the defenders, and for these reasons he has followed a liberating decision brought by the state's attorney, but the Supreme Court has confirmed this liberating decision. So, please, don't indirectly impute my responsibility because someone isn't brought to justice. You made it very clear that the cardinal error of that state's attorney was made. This is true, you can enlighten. Dear representative. Please, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9820	I'm sorry that you found yourself called, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I really didn't know that you were acting on duty at the time, but let me just finish, from this unequivocally results in certain errors in the process being made, and there is the responsibility of the state. And that's exactly why I asked a question like this. Thank you very much. Not alluding to you, but to the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9821	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9822	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. Here, citizens have already forgotten a little bit at a time when they were called the cattle of a tiny tooth, but here's the president of the State Council for Spatial Planning yesterday really crushed us and scandalized the general public that Vir is a leper village, a leper village that can only be rehabilitated if a bomb falls on him. So I'm asking you what you're going to do about such a truly scandalous behavior, or do you think citizens aren't something that officials need to take special care of?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9823	The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9824	I'm glad your memory goes far into the past, so we could also quote a whole series of other quotes, but what's with the shooting?- I'm sorry. It is that this government has appointed a State Council for the Spatial Planning of Croatia. I hope that this council has your support, too, because it's about the fact that we're really facing a tremendously large, illegal construction and that we need to do something on this plan. The advice that began to work a few months ago works extremely well. They were also on the island of Vir, they were in other counties, they will visit the others, and I am sure they will also submit proposals to the Government that will be referred to the Parliament in a way that can also solve illegal construction, apartmentisation, concreteisation of the Adriatic coast and the island. In a concrete statement, I asked the President of the Council what it was, I didn't read that statement, but later on through other media, I heard that he said that the word, about what you said in his question, told me that he ran into himself, that he meant to express metaphorically but in a metaphor that he was exaggerating. So I'm asking that a clumsy statement doesn't get a glimpse of what's important, and the important thing is that it's a really disastrous situation in the Virus. The important thing is that it was given there without any building permits, without local permits to build one house on another huge three-story, four-story, etc. And I think it's one big problem, not just for us, for Zadar County, for all of us in Croatia. That Vir is one big problem and we have to sort it out somehow. And I'm asking you to take any of these or other clumsy, inappropriate statements, not poison the view of what's important, and it's important that we really have to stop at the end of the lawless construction. I, in the light of the law that we sent to the Parliament, cited my case from experience in Austria when one of our former republics, the former Yugoslavia began to build on one ledge near Insbruk, and they all came there and they couldn't miraculously wonder what this one was doing because in Austrian laws there was no institution of punishment, sanctioning illegal construction and they started laughing at how someone could build without permission because there was no such thing. So let's go deal with this problem together and the government and the opposition and the position and the opium, let's deal with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9825	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9826	I'm not, of course, happy because Mr. Prime Minister, what you've now been answering is called a second-generation transfer. Nobody argues about what you're talking about, I'm talking about the behavior here, or the relationship of a civil servant, the public official, that's the problem. And that's what we need to be sensitized to. And we're in Zadar County especially on bombs sensitized so we don't allow metaphors, I think, where they didn't fall if they weren't suitable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9827	The president of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health called for a meeting at the House of Representatives today at 13:30. Now 22 MPs and MPs have asked parliamentary questions. We have time for the rest. I'm setting a 30-minute break. ... members of the government to enter the assembly. [[Home not recorded]] It begins, continues “Actually in the morning”. Should an hour buy someone? We continue with “Current afternoon”. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9829	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to refer my question to Minister Zuzul. The content of the avis you received yesterday from the European Commission is extensive and detailed. Can you tell us whether the content differs or is similar to the avis of other countries that have received it so far? Is there any way to say some reserves or additional conditions and requirements that Croatia should meet by June, this month, this year when a final decision on EU candidacy is expected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9830	Minister Zuzul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9831	Mr. President, Madam Representative, I thank you for the question and thank you for all the congratulations we have received today and allow me to clarify the sequence of your question because there has been a lot of controversy about what kind of recommendation or avis exists at all? So far, the European Commission has actually given two types of avis. The first to be given to a group of states in 1997 and was sometimes coloquial although not quite rightly referred to as unconditional avis. The second group of states received this in Helsinki in 1999, a large group. Five countries at that time and that was what was usually called conditional because the recommendation said what the country must do to ensure that the commission recommended candidate status. I am pleased to find that the Croatian avis in this final part is identical to those in the first group so it is not conditioned. The European Commission explicitly recommends that the European Council accept Croatia as a candidate and start negotiations with Croatia without setting any additional conditions that Croatia should meet from now on to this decision. Of course, it is expected and implies that Croatia will continue to meet everything that goes into the context of the Helsinki criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9832	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9833	Please. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9834	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. My question is for the Ministry of the Interior, as I see no one is present, so I would ask that in writing I answer the question. The state and security of the roads is certainly one of the preconditions for the development of tourism, and thus Croatia's connection with Europe. Unfortunately, we have witnessed sad numbers of 150 killed on Croatian roads since the new year and a significantly greater number of more serious and hurt people. My question is: what will the Ministry of the Interior do to increase security on Croatian roads? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9835	The secretary of state has just arrived at the interior ministry, Mr. Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9836	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I'm late. I heard a question. But the fact is that this year there was a relatively high increase in traffic accidents and fatalities. However, this is a complex issue in which a very large role plays a human factor but also plays a legislative framework. I have been contacted by the Director of Police on how these traffic accidents occur, however, it is certain that I have very important reasons and causes this significant increase in the number of traffic accidents with the fatalities and the Law on Road Safety and the Law on Infringement. By amending the Law on Infringements in 2002, I would say, liberalised sanctions against offenders so that it is seen that there has been an increase and an increase in the trend in the number of traffic accidents. That's why the Ministry took on several activities. One of the actions is that we have prepared a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Infringements and the Law on Road Safety, but we have also prepared several operational measures to be applied on roads that should lead to a reduction in the number of traffic accidents but especially to the reduction of those, those accidents with fatalities. I'll just tell you a few data that actually points to that other component and that's a human factor. In 70% of fatal accidents, no fatalities were used by the safety belt. Then in 75% of traffic accidents with fatal injuries where participants were on, mopedists and cyclists did not use a protective helmet. So that's a complex problem. The MUP will prepare this, this amendment to the legislative framework, will strengthen measures, traffic measures but we will surely propose very quickly to the Assembly and to amend the Law on Infringements and to amend the Road Safety Act, and I expect the support of the Parliament to indeed bring this, and the amendments to the law quickly because without changing the law, no police activity will give the desired results.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9837	Honored representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9838	I thank you for the exhaustive release of the gentleman of the state dungeon, and I hope that the Ministry will take all the measures to ensure that there are as few traffic accidents and as few dead and injured as possible and that the Government will, as soon as possible, propose an amendment to the Law on Infringements because without good punishment, there is no fear of violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9839	Dear Representative Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9840	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow respected ministers. In the government of the The question was drawn up for the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader, but here I am asking his deputy Dr. Andri Hebrang. Namely, the coastal mountain police administration is rated as the best in the Republic of Croatia. And her leader Josip Lulic of the current police director was rated 4.8, which means excellent. The highest marks were also evaluated for the organisation of security measures during the stay of the Holy Father in Rijeka and yet Mr Lulic was replaced. Citizens, guards and mayors of cities and municipalities as well as the mayor of the county consider this to be a political shift and an introduction to a new politicisation of police. Mr. Prime Minister said in public statements in his own time that he supports and encourages the Minister of Health Dr. Andrew Hebrang on shift from hospital director. I ask you, Mr Hebrang, do you now, as Vice-President of the Government, encourage and encourage your Minister of Interior, Mr Mlinarić, on the shift of successful people who are missing in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9841	Deputy Prime Minister Hebrang here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9842	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Representative. I wouldn't be talking about shifts I'd talk about first of all the grades the Resolute Minister is entitled to. And if the resolute minister brings a negative assessment of the business, he certainly has it justified and justified. If your question compares to the one in health care, then I can elaborate precisely why I suggested changing which director. And for this reason, I had to reach into the bottom budget stocks in other items of the budget so that their irregular business would have to be remedied. I also consider it the Deputy Prime Minister of the Interior Minister's right to assess the work of his associates and therefore create a human resources policy in the direction of the government's policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9843	Dear Representative Antesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9844	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I am certainly not satisfied with the answer because in your answer you have presented contradictory facts. That the resolute minister, based on his employee's assessment, is making a motion for his shift. The police chief in question has been evaluated by the highest rating in the Republic of Croatia, so 4.8 excellent. So it has nothing to do with this explanation of yours. I do, of course, think it's kind of an attempt to ask the police.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9845	Dear representative Nevenka Majdanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9846	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. I refer the question to the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Mr. Primorac. Dear Mr. Minister, you've spoken a lot last month about discharging programs and easier school bags. You were also talking about new knowledge catalogues and competences. The whole public agrees with these findings that the programmes are overloaded, that knowledge that students in schools acquire is encyclopaedic that many data that students must learn is unnecessary. That there's too many parallel textbooks. The question is, what are you going to do to solve these problems? Have your associates taken any concrete action with you? With what dynamics you intend to solve these problems. And will there be proposals to amend some legal solutions that will solve the problems mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9847	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Representative. It's true that we've run a part of our student discharge program. And at this present stage, we've started with changes in primary school. 20 days ago, we formed coordinations that cover three areas, it's a natural mathematical area. The area of social humanities and art. And within these areas, we actually have the most relevant people from the Republic of Croatia who we believe can do business within coordination. Also within the committees in question, which are in this entire package, which are precisely in charge of individual thematic continents, we were guided by the logic that we should place 50% of the prominent university professors of academics on the occasion. And also 50% of the practitioners of Methodists, Pegagogues, psychologists and all those who can help. Specific changes and actually a proposal without anything I can tell you without any delay that this first part that contains somewhere around 160, 170 people are going. We ordered 20 sets of books from first grade elementary school to the end of eighth grade. And the commissions actually started working. Dynamics are projected to last from an opportunity somewhere until the end of 11 months. In order to actually make a quality revision of the existing programme and based on the catalogues of knowledge and competence, as you have said, suggest which concepts of thematic whole of the teaching whole and which must simply be covered. By the end of the 11 months, we are guaranteed that even the professional public we invited opened an e-mail address will participate in this. But also that publishing will have a sufficient time period for the 2005 school year. According to these new catalogues, 2006 can make their textbooks. Of course, with the intensity that on April 1, 2005 we have ready and catalogues of textbooks. In some segments you know that catalogues we have had very interesting discussions that are based on area and secondary education. In this article, we are at a basic school which is a prerequisite for the launch of many procedures and, among other things, one law on a national test education centre that we supported yesterday and actually supported regardless of party membership. So activity goes top priority is primary schooling. In the next phase, we're going to high school.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9848	Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9849	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, I'm pleased with the answer. I believe the students will also be satisfied and satisfied, and will carry easier bags. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9850	Honorable representative of Neven Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9851	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday, the European Commission's opinion on Croatia's readiness to start negotiations on full membership in the EU gives a very positive assessment of everything that has been done so far in bringing Croatia closer to European standards. The reforms launched and largely completed by the former government have been recognised as a very successful example of directing the transition by the European model. In their performance of the SDP, I express my satisfaction and pride with this outcome of aviation. Because we primarily see it as a deserved recognition to the coalition past government. The new government's readiness to continue to lead Croatia towards the European Union has also been highly assessed. Now is the time for this willingness to be translated into very concrete and clear programs and actions. The question is in the absence of the Prime Minister then for Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. He asks to state what the Government intends to do and within what time to bring the European partnership that was also adopted yesterday, which points to the most important problems of the areas and measures on which Croatia still has to work to bring the situation of things to a full European level. What the Government intends to do is turn this European partnership into a national programme of concrete activities for Croatia's accession to the European Union. And how the Croatian Parliament will be involved in these activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9852	Deputy Prime Minister, Andrija Hebrang, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9853	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Representative, this government has shown over the past four months that it has been able to meet all that is set before it, by European regulations and rules through those democratic and legal rules that the government has laid down without it. We have also shown that we can deny all those rumors that followed us throughout the election campaign and even at the beginning of the mandate that we will prevent the way as the new Government of Croatia from becoming European integration. As you have seen, this government has proved that these rumors have been impeccable, that this government is in a state in every sector, and even the most sensitive ones that we have carried out these past weeks, and that you know that they were the only obstacle in your government, that we can successfully address them to the satisfaction of the citizens of Croatia and Croatia. We will also be in the future because at each session, this government has a record of all the tasks to be done. The tasks are shared, the tasks are shared by ministers and portfolios exactly by dates until they have to be done. We've been working on this methodology for four months, and we'll continue for the next two to three years to full success, and be sure we're able to do that, and we'll carry out these tasks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9854	Honorable representative of Neven Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9855	So it is difficult for a comprehensive and comprehensive question to be satisfied with the answer without a broad debate involving the Croatian Parliament, the broad debate on what concrete programmes are, the national programmes necessary to carry out that remaining difficult part of the approximation of the European Union. I think that without not more than a yearly, but a three-year national programme, means for the whole adjustment period without a very clear economic programme, without clear politically defined national interests for future negotiations, it will be difficult to complete the whole package of approximations to the European Union, and I hope that we will have the opportunity to make a contribution to this agreement on the further moves ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9856	Dear MP, Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9857	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and I would also like to hear the opinion of the Ministry of European Integration. After a positive avis, Croatia opens up significant opportunities to use pre-accession and financial very powerful funds, which condition clear programmes. Of course, for these programmes, clear programmes are offered and expensive consultants who are most often not from Croatia. Citizens will certainly be interested in whether we are ready or ready and ready to use these funds and resources, and I am interested in when and who will educate local officials to make such projects, so that they are of sufficient quality to be financially realised. Of course, and give them adequate information about programmes and funds that can be used because these funds have great opportunities for local and regional self-government and of course for local and regional development. So I'd like to hear you, Mr. Minister, but also the Ministry of European Integration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9858	Just a minute. Dear Vice-President, may the MP ask one question, so please determine whether you want an answer from the Minister of Foreign Affairs or from the Minister of European Integration?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9859	Mr. President, there are no European integration ministers here, and then only the foreign minister will answer me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9860	You can also get a written answer. Minister Zuzul, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9861	I appreciate the question. Mr. President, I think I can answer not only as a foreign minister but as a member of the government and co-ordinator for foreign and internal policy, and this is really a job that concerns the entire government and in, with a pretty clear division of what anyone in the government is doing. I agree with what comes out of your question and would like to point out that it opens up the possibility for Croatia to use funds that it has not been able to use so far. These funds will be able to benefit from the decision we hope for in June, as the European Commission has proposed a mechanism between the start of negotiations, so-called. "screening mechanism" and already within that period Croatia can use pre-accession funds. The government has already been organised, as Vice President Hebrang said, and continues to organise. Perhaps I should make it clear, the Ministry of European Integration is working towards the internal coordination of all those institutions that should be involved. The finance ministry also spoke to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development yesterday in this context. The foreign ministry is coordinating towards the outside. I agree with you and the government will do everything possible to make the most of these funds in communication with local communities. What he would particularly point out as a positive in this avis, that the commission says quite explicitly that the funds will be structured and the programmes will be structured so that it enables the Croatian state in the best possible way, including all the countries, that as soon as possible it will be prepared for entry into the European Union. Of the concrete things, since we have already started concrete talks in this context, the most we have talked about are the funds that we can use in several areas, areas of environmental protection, the area of transport, and, of course, what is particularly important to us and where the funds are actually in a certain way and is the largest area of agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9862	Dear Vice President Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9863	I'm happy with the answer, but I believe there will be more questions like that and more precise answers then.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9864	Thank you very much. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9865	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to Professor Andrija Hebrang, Minister of Health and Social Care. The Health Protection Act, adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 17.7.2003 in its article 68., states that at the level of the county a single home of health is established, and at the level of the City of Zagreb three. 14 counties have implemented this legal provision. They were mainly counties where today's opposition was in power, she could say, and with considerable pressure from the then minister to the county. Mr. Minister, you have announced an amendment to the Health Protection Act relating to this article and the possibility for the county as its owner to design and organise primary health care towards, respecting both needs and specificities. So my question is, when can we expect an amendment to the Health Protection Act and what will happen to the health homes that have already implemented this unification because they generally did not respect the procedure. In fact, decisions were made by the county heads, not by the county parliament, as it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9866	Vice-President, Minister of Health and Social Affairs Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9867	... , the problem you mentioned has really caused organisational difficulties because the unique health homes are insufficient and staffed and organised, to take care of primary health care for the entire county. [[Specially enabled.]] So now very impractical things are happening in everyday work, large distances from individual offices to administration, disabling normal communication and normal work. That is why I have announced an amendment to such a law, and in the direction of our further desire for decentralisation, that the county as the founder of these institutions itself decides how many homes of health should be kept in its territory. And then, of course, the county will be the founder of the best and rationalize with that number of institutions and will also best deploy them. In this sense goes my proposal for amending the law, the text for amending the law is being prepared, but since it is not about the only change but about more of them, then it will take, I believe, another time, I can't really say how long. However, in that announcement I actually said that we would not control the implementation, strict implementation of this Law unless it is in the county's interest. Whoever wants to do this to himself, and whoever doesn't, we won't go with criminal measures because we think that we need to change that law as soon as possible and we've started making text.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9868	Dear representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9869	Thank you very much. I'm completely satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9870	Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9871	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I will take the opportunity to join all those who have sent congratulations to Mr. Sanader, but of course also to former Prime Minister Mr. Racan, and I will especially point out that this has not been highlighted so far, especially thanks and congratulations to all those who work in the professional departments of the government, because I can say from my experience that these people have been working day and night, that, for example, when we have answered questions, they have given everything to themselves and I think it is worth mentioning them here and how to thank them for this effort. For us in the HSS, it is certainly not a question of yes or no in the EU, but the question is how and what is the price. These days, Mr. Prime Minister, with his strong statements, he came upon me a little bit, and I would say that he would not contribute to strengthening tolerance and democratic dialogue in political life. His last statement that I don't know what I'm talking about because Protocol 7 has provided Croatia with much better conditions than I agreed on is primarily incorrect. Because he knows as well as I do that all the arrangements so far have been conducted in technical terms for the last eight years by a man who has led them so far. However, what I want to say is not the most important thing before it is important to mention that the government decides on the start and the basis for guidelines, but of course the conclusion of the negotiations themselves. What we disagree on is that the negotiations had to be completed by 1 May of this year... /The speaker interrupted./...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9872	My colleague, please ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9873	My question is, my question is very clear. How is it possible, for example, that Bulgaria and Romania who are also in the same almost I would say the situation as we are or better, because they are already candidates, but they have negotiations, should not have completed those negotiations, did not even start them, and did not discuss agriculture and Croatia had to do so and does that mean that we sacrificed that part of agriculture in that part? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9874	Is the question referred to?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9875	Mr. Foreign Minister, Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9876	Mr. Zuzul, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9877	Thank you. Of course that doesn't mean what you're suggesting. Each country has its own pace of negotiations and adjustments. First of all, I would like to begin by thanking you for your commendation to all those who have truly worked tirelessly, and such is a great number. Of course, the final and let's be realistic for the most part, with all the thanks to the previous government, has been done in the past three and a half months, including the negotiations on Protocol 7. What the Prime Minister said and what stands as a fact, these negotiations were conducted within the criteria that you really agreed, which were previously agreed and which could not be changed. I still think and I think that the government has given enough arguments to show that one protocol that benefits Croatia with its contents is concluded, that quotas agreed better than those that could even be expected based on the initial assumptions, but let's face it, Croatia has shown maturity in accession and in negotiations and in some way confirmed that it is ready to continue negotiations as a candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9878	Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9879	Well, of course I'm not happy with the answer in this part of the quota. I will mention only one detail, and I will quote Mr. Mira Kučić of the chairman of the group of fisheries and maricculture and fish processing that makes it very clear that what we received in fishing as an increase when we have brought together these ten new countries where we have so far been free of exports with this increase that we have received in the EU-25 and is not really just an increase, so those facts that have been presented so far are not correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9880	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9881	Dear President, honourable members of the government. First of all, on behalf of the citizens I represent, I would like to express my gratitude to the government of Ivica Racan on the work of the lion... Maybe someone's funny. The citizens I represent are not funny what I say. So I say it for them, so please be correct and listen. These governments, Ivo Sanader, will continue this European path, and all in order to gain a similarity for the start of accession negotiations with the European Union, and I will refer my question to Mr Schuker, Minister of Finance. Dear Ministers, will you review the tax returns of citizens who bought cars and vessels more expensive than 50,000 euros at the Zagreb Autoshour and Split Fair in order to see how much income tax they paid in the last year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9882	Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9883	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Mr. President, not to oversaw it, but to the last college with the directors of the county's outposts, it's been sent to elect them to carry out these checks not on their tax returns but also on the companies on which it was purchased to see what annual traffic is and I think it's high time we started to apply the legal provisions that allow us to do so in this country. It is neither a problem nor a property card, because the General Tax Act and the Income Tax Act allow such actions. So two weeks ago at the board of directors of the tax administration, they were instructed to do it for a simple reason for this government to confirm that it was on the trail of what she had promised.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9884	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9885	Here, even though we haven't agreed on a question, I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9886	Honorable representative Ivo Banac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9887	Dear Mr. President, my question was meant for the Prime Minister Dr. Sanader, but in his absence, he may be held accountable by one of the Prime Ministers present here. The question is this: Former Croatian Police Director Rajko Ostojic recently said in an interview with the Split political weekly "Feral Tribune" that the former head of the PoA Turk, former head of the Office of Presidents of the Republic of Begic and current editor-in-chief of the "Nacional" Pukanic weekly are sponsors or protectors of organised crime in this country. My question is, what does the government take to verify these charges, and if they don't take anything, why doesn't they take it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9888	Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mrs. Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9889	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Representative, the government will answer you in writing as soon as possible. Allow this freedom, given that this is a very serious issue, so the written answer is very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9890	Honorable representative Ivo Banac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9891	I'll be very pleased when I get that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9892	Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9893	Mr. President, I wanted to refer my question to the Prime Minister, and since he's not being asked by the Minister of Finance, Mr. Shucker, since it's financial matters. Business circles can be heard about the alarming liquidity situation in the country. Given that the state has over 50% of the value of the annual social gross product if we include budgets, funds and public enterprises. It can have a crucial impact on liquidity through its disorderly settlement of liabilities. In recent months, social and other budget payments have been delayed. No planned incentives have been paid to farmers for the first quarter and so on. With the state budget's explanation for 2004 we are informed of the government's debts in the range of 6.5 billion to 12 billion kuna. The Prime Minister and his associates often take this as well as for not fulfilling certain obligations or implementing new programmes. But at a cabinet meeting in Varazdin and the Forum, the Prime Minister said that the state only owes 16 million kuna on a certain day. If these allegations about the founding and the current debt are correct, then it associates me with some magic trick, because the real revenues of the state budget without additional debt could not make it possible. I'd say it is, however, that the statements about the amount of debt found are incorrect. I ask, in fact, how much does the state really owe the outstanding debt and who are its creditors, and by doing so, we could actually determine whether it is the state that promotes indifference?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9894	Minister Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9895	... Well, it's gonna turn out that I'm the one who arranged the issue with the SDP. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]] I must say that the answer to the question, about how much the government owed at the cabinet session was correct, what the budget users entered to pay, on that day there were 16 million unpaid liabilities. And those 6.5 billion outstanding and created liabilities are plus 2 billion lawsuits for unpaid Santas, regressions, etc. But let's start with that first part of unpaid social obligations and subsidies on agriculture. You are well aware that the first three months were the Law, the decision on temporary financing, that the decision on temporary financing was not provided for even 60% of the necessary funds, and at the time when the budget was adopted 20 days later, the state came into a position to settle all its obligations. However, when we talk about outstanding obligations, we need to separate Croatian railways, we need to distinguish Croatian roads and Croatian highways that are not in the state budget. In fact, the former government boasted that it had found a brilliant model to finance highways. I must say, by decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia last year, a billion kunas were issued, of which 750 million kunas were to be transferred to Croatian highways, up to 31. The 12th was only transferred 350. This government is 31. The 12th transfer of 180, at this time there are still 230 million kuna bonds left by the former government rather than making a commitment to the Croatian highways. Also, as regards the Croatian Railways, I note that in late 2002 and 2003 short-term bonds amounting to one billion and a half million kuna were created, and this government paid 600 million short-term loans with 31.3. Also according to FINA data published the other day and according to statistics from the Statistics Office for some 600 companies, it was less blocked than it was at the end of last year. Therefore, a certain climate that wanted to be created at a given moment around indifference, about the state not paying its obligations, is simply not true. After all, all the indicators point to something else. And therefore, if we're going to believe the data, and we have to believe in the official bodies, then it simply says it's false. But I repeat, the last government has left this government or created new commitments worth 6.5 billion kuna. We estimate that unpaid Christmases, regresses, gifts to children for Christmas will be court disputes over 2 billion kunas that this government will need to pay off. Also, 250 million kunas that have not been spoken of so far to a church that the last government has not settled over the past four years. Therefore, when you add it all together, then you will see that practically the available part of the budget is spent in advance this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9896	Dear Representative Dragica Zagrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9897	Of course I'm not happy with the answer. And I'm not happy with the answer because Mr. Schucker is talking about loans as obligations, they're when they come to collect liabilities. I was asking about the dues, and I'm not going to ask for a written answer, because that would be just another variant of the debt, so from the 6.5, 12 billion, up to 16 million, I could only get another one of the variants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9898	Dear representative Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9899	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the question to the Minister of Health and Social Care, Mr. Andri Hebrang. Mr. Minister, why is it that children with disabilities who exercise the right to a personal disability are reduced or abolished by the right to stay a day for more than 4 hours in pre-school and school institutions? This is usually from the Social Welfare Act adopted in 1997. To clarify, a child who attends elementary school under a regular program, crossing all obstacles, and needs help from another person, has no right to a personal assistant, and is generally provided by his parents. It should be emphasized that his course lasts longer than four hours. In order to lead to absurdity, most parents working part - time in a working relationship, making it difficult for them to obtain a full - time personal disability. However, how a parent has to do his four hours at work and it takes at least an hour to pick up a child, so it is already the fifth hour that the child stays at school or in kindergarten that loses the right to a personal disability. And we know that mothers of children with the most severe degree of damage have no right to the status of mother nurse. So the state sort of punishes if you want to integrate your child. I'm curious, so the answer, both in writing and in oral form, is simply to clarify this forest of law?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9900	Minister Hebrang, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9901	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam MPs, I fully agree with you, this is an unfortunate and clumsy regulation, that is, a combination of several regulations that are at least inhumane and I suggest that we together create a new text that would predicate this House for adoption, so amending the rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9902	Dear representative Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9903	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'd be happy to respond to that, simply to find order and ways to give this category of people a more dignified place. I also ask you in the last two months there has been an irregular, irregular payment of personal disability and social assistance and please bear that in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9904	Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9905	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government. I join the AVI cards on behalf of the Croatian Party of Retired Party Representatives Club. I'm asking the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr. Branko Vukelic. At this point in the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute there are about 8 thousand users who receive their pension on the basis of temporary solutions whose age dates from one month to eight years, primarily because of incomplete documentation whether it is destroyed or unavailable. A large number of administrative disputes are being conducted on the cross-road from a temporary solution to a permanent settlement, and the administrative court has largely ruled out in favour of the prosecutor, annuls the interim solution and asks the defendant of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office to obtain information missing from other means of collecting evidence. The Croatian Pension Insurance Office is acting under the decision of the Administrative Court, issuing a permanent pension solution only on the basis of the available assessment documentation, so without collecting evidence. In this way, pensioners are given no endless litigation, which also confirms the report of the occupier, which describes this issue on pages 33 to 41. In 2003, there were 386 complaints about difficulties in achieving pension rights, and the finding was that most complainants were found to have a thorough complaint and that the process of resolving their rights was inadmissible for a long time since their pension was the only source of income. We have also recorded cases where after years of litigation, finding a return of a part of the pension, i.e. with a difficult part of the pension, is carried out and all because of a system failure. The question is, what will the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute do to resolve this problem more expediently and efficiently, and to make administrative disputes an exception, instead of rules in this issue?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9906	Thank you. Minister of Labour and Economy Branko Vukelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9907	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor's Parliamentary Representative, Your Honor, Your Honor, and Mr. Parliamentary Representatives. It is true that the Pension Insurance Fund issues temporary solutions for those persons who are unquestionably entitled to retirement but cannot be determined by the lack of certain elements to determine the exact amount of pension. There are such items, temporary solutions of about 8,000, 3,000 and something related to the family, about 600, 700 is related to the family pension, over 4 thousand disabled, about 3,000, temporary solutions are related to the retirement pension. First of all, temporary solutions are issued for those, I repeat, persons who are unquestionably entitled to retirement in order to protect their... rights and that they would be entitled to health insurance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The reasons are, and you yourself, respected parliamentary MPs and said, whether it was a lack of documentation due to aggression in Croatia, whether it was companies that went bankrupt and failed to hand over data to the pension fund, whether it was persons from other countries, former SFRY, such as Serbia-Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. In that case, I believe that the cases will be resolved faster because we now have signed social security contracts with these countries and this process, I believe it will continue faster. However, after the issue of provisional solutions, it is clear that these elements are being identified which are relevant for the determination of the amount of pension. The fact is obvious by what you say often takes too long and I will request from the Director of the Pension Insurance Fund a full report on the deadlines and on the problems that are related to the final resolution of those persons who have temporary pension solutions. And I believe we'll find a way and a model to solve these objects faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9908	Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9909	I am relatively satisfied with the answer but for informing pension societies and pensioners as well as possible preventive action please write a written reply with a more detailed explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9910	Dear Representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9911	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm joining the entire government in charge of Dr. Sanader and all those who contributed to the positive opinion of the European Union for our country. And I'm asking a question in the absence of the Justice Minister, Mrs Vesne Skare-Ozbolt, State Secretary, Mrs Snježani Bagic, so if she can't answer, then I'll ask the written answer. In an explanation of the modification but not the abolition of the recent verdicts of one drug dealer, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia's solution was written to quote: "It did not determine the amount of costs the defendant had in obtaining intoxicating drugs.", finished quote. When a man reads it, he thinks buying heroin is a legitimate job or a privileged business free of financial risk. So we're witnessing that in court practice, the cost of drug dealers has been recognised on the defendant's bench. So please ask and ask if you are familiar with this practice and do you have any initiative on this matter, or what do you intend to do? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9912	Thank you very much. State Secretary Snježana Bagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9913	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is about the verdict, and from the context of the verdict, one part has been taken out. Of course, any favoring drug treatment is unacceptable. We had one problem that seems to me not to be here and that's the fact that there was no normized question of storage drug and that we went into the process of amending the law. Let me answer this question in writing, given that we will request reports from the President of the Court, an insight into the whole explanation, and we will provide you with the answer in writing, since it is still a verdict and it would be inappropriate for us to comment without having that in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9914	Thank you very much. A member of the Government may or should not answer questions that do not relate to his work or to jobs that are not part of his work. This is part of the fateful power. Comrade Bucan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9915	Thank you, thank you very much, I'm pleased with your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9916	Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9917	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my question with a quote, or article 48. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Quote: "The right of ownership, ownership is guaranteed, holders of ownership rights and their users are obliged to contribute to the general good.", quote completed. Returnees in the Republic of Croatia are guaranteed the right to property which is not questionable or controversial. But expelled and exiled from their exiles from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo and Vojvodina, who have become emigrants in the Republic of Croatia and become citizens of the Republic of Croatia, these days receive for the third time from the time of their immigration to the day, a solution to dissuasion. Which makes the Croatian government finally get a solution to permanent accommodation, which is said to be a permanent home over our heads and not to send our people to a third country. I hope that Croatia will become one day and soon be a settler rather than an emigrant country.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9918	Who are you asking the question to?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9919	I have asked the President of the Croatian Government, it is not there, if no one can answer the question in writing, as soon as possible, you have seen yourself through means of public communication to Gračac and other examples where people live in fear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9920	Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9921	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Government is doing everything at this time that no one is left without a roof over their heads, that no one is left without protection and, of course, all the care and care about the people you speak of, therefore, about Croats who unfortunately had to leave their homes and shelters in Croatia. So we do everything and here we can guarantee on behalf of the Croatian government that no case will happen if anyone stays on the street, especially of course we care about families. But you will certainly get an answer in writing with a detailed plan to take care of everyone you speak of. So, of course the right to ownership is unquestionably a constitutional category, it must be protected but it must also be protected by every man who is in trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9922	Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9923	Thank you, Madam Vice President, and I hope you'll take care of the people and I repeat the permanent solution once again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9924	Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9925	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers and members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. Madam Minister, I wanted to ask a question knowingly about the care of old and powerless persons, but another case of the Croatian defender certainly deserves our interest. It could be heard right now in the walkways that one of the defenders shut himself down with his family again that he was threatening to detonate the bomb. Please, if you are familiar with this situation for the sake of the public, can you say something about this event?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9926	Vice-President, Minister Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9927	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the distinguished Mrs. Roksandic, I can say because here I was one time out of my current class, and I went right where it was happening, unfortunately a real hostage crisis, so one person, armed with four people in one welfare center. I can inform you that this merciless situation has been successfully completed, so no casualties. The person who imprisoned the employees or the staff of the centre has surrendered. So it all worked out just fine this time. However, I would certainly like to take this opportunity and, on behalf of all of us, on behalf of the Croatian Government and the Ministry of the Ministry, to take advantage of the opportunity and condemn any violent resolution of any crisis situation and so on. So the violent path will not solve anything and can't solve it. We have a lot of understanding for all the problems. Problems are being solved, trying to solve this and this way when innocent people's lives are being put in danger is absolutely and totally unacceptable. Otherwise, as far as I have information for now, it's about a gentleman who was, I say, I'm still building up, who was a member of the reserve composition of the MUP during the Homeland War. The data is not yet definitive and accurate, but here's what I'd like to report to you. I know that you MPs were upset with the news of this crisis that lasted several hours that she had successfully ended without victims and I earnestly hope that similar situations would never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9928	Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9929	Thank you very much. I'm pleased with the answer to that more I'm asking the government now to really step up security measures at welfare centres. In my activity, I really care about these centers, and these situations often happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9930	Honorable representative Lino Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9931	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. The association of small fishermen of Bujština, i.e. the entire fishing zone A from Cape Savudrija to Cape Kamenjak, prays for the return of fishing gears, triple nets of so-called populace, poponice. In carrying out small fishing, these are the only nets that can be used by fishermen in the area of fishing zone A. The existing authorisation of use of standing nets is inappropriate for that area. Namely, a return to the decision to allow the use of a triple-deck network that was in place until 2000 is required. In addition, these small fishermen are mostly allowed to catch up to 5 kilograms, and often this is about social issues, not wealth. And they also remind small fishermen that they have been deprived of the right to use these networks, and it is allowed the same right for foreign citizens to fish in our aquarium. I am convinced that solutions can also be found on possible misunderstandings between small fishermen' association and professional fishermen. I'm asking Mr. Peter Cobankovic's question, and that's what it says. Do you intend to amend the Maritime Fisheries Act and the Regulation on fishing gears and small fishing equipment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9932	Thank you very much. Minister Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9933	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, allow me, I'll answer very briefly. We intend to make changes to the Law on Marine Fisheries, but I am also free to invite representatives of small fishermen to organise a meeting at the Ministry before we begin to prepare for the amendments and additions to the Law as well as representatives of those fishermen who deal with the economic catches of fish and to see and find in direct contact the possibilities of a possible return and three-layered network as a tool for these fishermen who are additionally fishing at sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9934	Honorable representative Lino Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9935	Well, I'm happy with the answer because you convinced me that you'd be in action very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9936	Dear Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9937	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In Split-Dalmatin County, several economic areas of the largest in Dugopolje were launched and those already operated by economic operators such as Muć, Dicmo Vrlika but the newest ones that are just preparing the terrain and projects such as Sinj, Imotski and so on. Many units of local self-government, supported by the Ministry of Entrepreneurship, County and Croatian Government funds, built infrastructure because they see a solution in these areas to start the economy and employ people. If we add to this that some of these zones also have building permits, which means they have the consent of the Croatian forests among other things, when we have all this in mind, a logical question arises. Although the law has not changed the units of local self-government can no longer dispose of land in areas, and here it has been 5.6 months of projects, production plants, everything rests. Nothing's being built. I'm asking the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry. How systematically you think to solve the problems of ownership of entrepreneurship zones so that everyone who invests knows the rules of the game because until yesterday it could be built in them, and today it can't, even though the law hasn't changed. And finally, as far as the Croatian forests are concerned, I ask the question of whose property it is and whose interest and who are protected by the Croatian forests if they do not allow new production to be established on them, and I think there are over 500 thousand hectares in our county. The requirements of both the economy and the agricultural entrepreneurs are not more than 3000 hectares.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9938	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9939	And why have we been waiting a few months for this to start?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9940	Thank you very much. The minister heard the question. Minister Petar Cobanković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9941	Thank you very much. Here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna try to answer it for a second. I mean, this is about another problem. Croatian forests are one of the subjects or entities that the lords partly mean to the lords of the state forests and forest land. This is about the problem of forest land. So, for the sake of the need to open certain economic facilities, for the purpose of resuscitating forest land, but I must stress the unspeakable forest land, the transfer to agricultural land, and that is one of the tasks of this government. At the meeting in Split, a conclusion was reached where the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, together with the Croatian Forests, tasked with registering unsuspecting, unprocessed, unsuspecting forest land that could be used for re-use and planting long-term plantations. I'm also familiar with certain cases and where certain problems arise on forest land, this, related both to entrepreneurial zones and to the construction of certain buildings. There's a similar problem with Knin where the settlement was supposed to be for the settlers, and here we are at the end of the solution to that problem. I am convinced that in the near future we will create mechanisms and laws of a harmonised mechanism that we can be far more operational in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9942	Dear Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9943	I have faith that the government will do so even though it's been a few months and we are effective and of course it's for the start of production, it's a matter of all the issues of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9944	And finally respected representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9945	Dear Mr. President, dear ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like to ask Mr. Peter Cobankovic, Minister of Agriculture. We all know that, on behalf of the unpaid incentives in agriculture, the debt from 2003 was inherited and transferred to this financial year amounting to more than 800 million kuna. We are witnessing that today it is often in the media that there are certain signs that it is late and that there is no payment of these backlogs, so I am curious about what the exact situation is today, how much of this amount of money has been paid and I am also interested in what the minister intends to do in order to pay off these incentives, because it is obvious that this way so far does not produce very good results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9946	Minister of Agriculture and Forestry Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9947	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, allow me to give you one, I would say the full answer to this question. I think there have been too many speculations in the media, and I'm also free to say unfounded questions by certain agricultural producers. I must repeat once again what I think is clear here in the Croatian Parliament, but I think that in part of the Croatian public it was interpreted wrongly. The fact is that according to the rights achieved in 2003, approximately 800 million kunas of unpaid incentives in certain branches of a particular culture of agricultural products were not paid off. For these reasons, and faced with the temporary funding that was in place until the budget was adopted where we had 231 million kuna in the budget, so we couldn't start to pay off all the backlog that was transferred from 2003. By bringing the State Budget for 2004 we have immediately in agreement with the Ministry of Finance further intensified the payments of incentives and I can say that up until today, 893 million kunas have been paid on the basis of support and incentives. That these days, or rather, we're going to pay another 40 million 888 grand to pay 22 and 24 this month. That's 900 all together somewhere cca 933 million kuna. One extremely large amount and I want to publicly express my gratitude to the Ministry of Finance, which during this relatively short period of time has followed us extremely well. It was not at all a disputed insurance of financial resources but a far greater problem was to prepare the bases for the payment of incentives. The fact is that the system that has been adopted for the calculation of incentives is extremely complex and complicated. We didn't have any data on the spring seed until half the second month in 2003. We didn't have a database so we could run the incentives. The next thing I want to point out, in the last year, it means that in 2003, the Law on monetary incentives and support in agriculture and forestry did not establish national quotas for individual cultures. For reasons not to retroactively bring national quotas we have paid maximum support per unit of surface for all recorded areas, means but for those who have gone through the accounting method and the register as regulated by the law, means with a certain minimum seed area. And here's what I'm going to do. In 2003, on the basis of milk, the month of November and December paid 77 million kuna. On the basis of fish means fishing, 22 million kunas were paid for the fourth quarter of 2003. For the spring harvest in 2003, 612 million 377 thousand were paid and we have to pay another cca 3 million kuna, but this is about some specific cases that failed to pass through the register and so on. which were certain cases. Then the payment for tobacco, fully paid in the amount of 61 million kuna. The livestock industry, by the throat, means the annual payment of the 30% of 2003 left over, 81 million kuna. We have more to account for and pay 3 million 738 thousand and it will be paid 22.4. or better said tomorrow. Next, that pig fourth quarter, 22 million kuna. Tov heroda the fourth quarter of 2003, 18 million kuna. Other measures in cattle farming quarter 2003 12 million and 600 thousand kuna will be paid 24.4. Seed production...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9948	Ministers, unfortunately, finish up, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9949	Let me finish. Seed production of the second part of 2003, 18 million kuna. Fruit material paid annually for 2003 3 million and 550,000 kuna. So the total is 893 million. Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow 40 million kunas will be paid and incentives will be fully paid on the basis of 2003. I'm the amount of 930 million kuna I think I'm talking enough for myself. Or that...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9950	Thank you very much, Minister. Representative, honourable representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9951	Thank you very much for your answer. I hope that in the future you will introduce a little more order in the payment of this incentive system and that the peasants will not wait like this 800 million kuna for a year, because we all know that the situation in agriculture is very difficult, that the seed costs a lot and it is not right that these incentives get this much after harvesting. I hope I get another written answer to this question, because you've been a lot of nerds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9952	In accordance with Article 189 of the Treaty on the I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure that the Government has not delivered an answer within the prescribed time limit to MP Slavko Linic's question and I would like to ask that the reply be delivered within 8 days. Ladies and gentlemen, Agents of the "Current Morning" is over. We'll continue the session at 3:15. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work towards the agenda. 1. Proposal for a law confirming the 1992 European Convention on Film Production, with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 70; The Proposer of the Law is the Government. Emergency procedure. In accordance with Article 159, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Education, Science and Culture and the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the proposal? Minister of Culture Bozo Bishop, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9954	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. The Republic of Croatia is a signator of the 92nd European Convention on Film Production without reserves. As regards its application in the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore necessary to implement this Law to confirm it. This Council of Europe Convention, drawn up in Strasbourg on 2 October 92 and entered into force on 1 April 94. To date, it has been signed by 36 states and ratified by 31 states. The Convention aims to promote the development of European film production and European co-operation in the field of film co-production and particularly regulates relations between parties in the field of multilateral co-productions created on the territory of the parties to the Convention when co-production works to meet the definition of European film. For the Republic of Croatia this Convention will apply to bilateral co-productions. The Convention equates the status of European film as multilateral co-productions with regard to the benefits prescribed by national legislation. The Convention prescribes conditions for the acquisition of co-production status, which will be approved by the Ministry of Culture in Croatia. It also prescribes the interests of the prodigal. In multilateral co-production, the smallest share cannot be less than 10% and the maximum cannot exceed 70% of the total cost of production and film work. When it comes to bilateral co-productions, the minimum share cannot be less than 30 and the maximum cannot exceed 80% of the total cost of production of the film. The Convention prescribes the rights of co-producers, prescribes the principle of balance in terms of technical and artistic participation and... between parties, edits so-called financial co-productions that can acquire co-production status. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The convention addresses the issue of entry permits and the staff's residence in the export of film works, festivals and the question of the language in which the film will be recorded. When the co-production status is granted, a version of the film work may be sought in the language of the Party to the Convention. Since the Film Act is scheduled for adoption during this year, we will arrange in accordance with the provisions of this Convention. And we accept the amendments of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9955	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Peter Selem, chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9956	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At its meeting on 20 April 2004, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Convention of Film Co-production of 92 with the Final Proposal for Law P.Z. No. 70th, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. The Committee points to the need for maximum attention and high requirements when transposing international conventions from education, science and culture into Croatian. Especially when differences are observed between the originals in different languages: English and French. Following the discussion of the members of the Committee, representatives of the proposings and other invited participants, the following conclusion was reached unanimously: The Committee on Education, Science and Culture proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on the Confirmation of the 1992 European Convention on Film Co-production by means of an urgent procedure and in the form prepared by the promoters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9957	Thank you. What other rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration, legislation? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives LIBRA, Honored Representative Željko Pavlic, please welcome a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9958	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, let me refer on behalf of the Club of Libre to the adoption of this Act, i.e. These conventions. It seems to me that this is the only club that is manifested about this Law, so I could say, it's not weird, it's just a follow-up, so our promises and traditions that we're a little bit stronger on both film art and it's primarily due to our respected so, fellow former Mr. Ivo Skrabal, and here we are going to continue to take care of the Croatian film and this way. So, Club Libre will support this law, i.e. This European Convention on Film Co-production, signed so far by 36 countries, has been ratified by 31 countries. The Republic of Croatia, unfortunately, belongs to the five countries that signed the convention, as early as October 2, 2001, was made by a representative of the government and has not unfortunately confirmed it in their parliament yet. So that is why Club LIBRE supports the ratification of this Convention and also shares the satisfaction of the film authors who appeared on the Parliament's agenda on the film.hr's website commented with uf, finally. The LIBRE Club considers it necessary to point out that the main objective of this Convention is to promote the development of European film co-production and European co-operation in the field of film co-production, and that the signatories of this Convention undertake to develop, among other things, the freedom of creation and freedom of expression and to protect the cultural diversity of different European countries. What does this Convention mean for a Croatian film? So, above all, because of the possibility of obtaining support for production, distribution and presentation of a film that is achieved through European cooperation in the field of film production, including all forms of cooperation to implement this Convention, primarily through the European Co-production Support Fund, the distribution of creative, film and audiovisual works. This Convention therefore allows Croatian film producers to perform as legitimate co-producers of European film. Business as we remember it in the '80s and '70s didn't happen today either. Just to remind you that the Adriatic film marked its services on the European market and had profits, transport as a solid shipyard. The Adriatic film thus provided co-production services to foreign partners by 1994, around 160 films and 32 TV shows. The possibility of new sources of film financing opened by this Convention will make it easier and at the moment, we could say the tense state of the existing financing system that is both insufficient and closed. And there were often polemics and tensions among authors because of which the project would take precedence. Because only 5, 6 or 7 films are made annually and with great difficulty. In fact, much of the production of domestic films depends precisely on subsidies from the Ministry of Culture. Although the film should only be co-financed by half the cost of the film and the producers themselves should cover the rest of the film's costs, they mostly do not. Like... Croatian TV appears in the film, but it does so with hesitation and reluctantly invests in something that is programically disposable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, investment in film is conditional upon the simultaneous production of television series. This way of financing films is also the basic problem of Croatian film which is excessively dependent on state support, which can also result in the state's influence on the freedom to create and express film authors, so the possibility of using funds from independent funds is very useful to preserve these values. The Libre Club therefore supports this convention because we believe that its application will introduce more order and raise standards to our film system, and we also believe that the new Film Act should be adopted as soon as possible because the film area is still largely regulated by the 1980 Cinematography Act with changes and additions from 1990. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9959	Thank you. On behalf of the Klub representative of the Croatian Democratic Community, a respected representative of Jagoda Maja-Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9960	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry of Culture, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community's club supports the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the 1992 European Convention on Film Production with the Final Proposal of the Law for the following reasons: it is one of the most important segments for Croatian culture, especially today when we are moving towards European integration. It is a relationship, a mutual relationship that this Convention opens, a relationship between Croatian and European films, one activity that is not yet sufficiently recognised in the European and world frameworks. First of all, this legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, which is essential. The Convention aims to promote the development of European film co-production, European co-operation in the field of film co-production, and this will have far-reaching consequences for Croatia especially when the convention comes to life compared to our country. For example, the Croatian film will continue with the one already opened with the euro image, which means that a number of new opportunities will be opened, access to various funds, as well as participation in exchanges and opinions and ultimately achievements when co-production occurs. A series of benefits this Convention will certainly initiate and advance the entire Croatian cinematographic activity, and I particularly stress this will create that good sense of equality and partnership in collaboration with other smaller and larger European cinematographers. It is certainly a new chance for a Croatian film, for a large family of Croatian film workers who have not yet made enough efforts to reach European cinema halls. This Convention will enable it in its own ways with its mechanisms. Of course, that's what it assumes with us to improve the conditions for making a film. It assumes the final adoption of our, our film law. This assumes greater concern for the Croatian scenario, which may be the biggest pain of Croatian film, but therefore assumes the entry of our excellent actors primarily in European films through co-production that will enable the Croatian culture segment to be heard in the world as well. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community therefore supports the adoption of this Act by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9961	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9962	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I think it would be quite unreasonable if anyone were to deny the need to adopt this law in the most urgent procedure because it is a law that certainly includes a part of Croatian culture in the European cultural circle. I would just like them to be similar because there are not exactly identical mechanisms in other branches of art, they apply so that the other branches of art are fully involved in the European circle and I remind, of course, that in, however, let us acknowledge to the poor societies, relatively poor as one part of our integration is in the hands of the Minsiter of culture, and those most importantly in the hands of the Minister of Finance, and also I appeal to it that by its activities and activities, it belongs to these positive trends that come from the Ministry of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9963	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote on all the debated agenda points. Please, how many MPs and counsel are there in the hall? 87. Did you include the ones that just walked in? 91 is the last number. Okay. First, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the European Convention on Film Co-production of 92 P.Z. No. 70. The amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee have been accepted by the Proposer, I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find it unanimous with 93 votes to pass this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9966	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. The Republic of Croatia is a party to the 1969 European Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage, which entered into force on 20 November 1970. This Convention has been supplemented and revised by the 1992 European Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage, which we propose to confirm by the Bill. The revised Convention drawn up in Valeta on 16 January 1992 and entered into force on 25 May 1995. To date, this revised convention has been signed by 40 states and ratified by 30 states. The Republic of Croatia has been a signator of this Convention since 2 October 2001. The revised Convention ensures a more complete and comprehensive protection of archaeological heritage than that of the 1969 Convention, as it further regulates the following issues: the identification of archaeological heritage and the measures of its protection, the keeping of records of the establishment of protected archaeological areas, the prevention of illegal excavation or transfer of findings, the prior authorisation of research, the taking of measures of physical protection of archaeological heritage. Full protection of archaeological heritage by ensuring a balanced strategy for the protection and conservation of archaeological sites and ensuring optimal conservation of archaeological heritage. The issues of funding archaeological research and protection provide public financial support to state, regional and local authorities for archaeological research and support to the private sector for archaeological works. The creation of conditions for mutual technical and scientific assistance between the Parties to this Convention is aimed at enabling European cooperation through exchange of experts, technical and scientific assistance. The revised Convention also regulates the way in which scientific information is collected and disseminated, provides for a review, a list of archaeological sites, the production of scientific presentations, the national and international exchange of archaeological subjects and the connection of information to archaeological research. The Convention regulates the issue of preventing illegal trafficking in objects of archaeological heritage. For example, it undertakes to collect data on illegal excavations, take measures that museums do not obtain items obtained by illegal excavations and so on. For Croatia, this is particularly important because we have a large number of sites that are rarely threatened by illegal actions by individuals. The revised 1992 Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage in relation to the Republic of Croatia ceases to apply to the European Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage in 1969, as set out in Article 5 of the Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage. Proposal for a law of confirmation. And finally, I would like to stress that the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods is in line with this Convention and will not be necessary to amend or supplement it after confirming this Convention. That's the part that the MP was talking about earlier in fact already applied to. We accept the amendments of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9967	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to? Yeah. The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Peter Selen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9968	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its meeting on 20 April the proposal for a law on the validation of the European Convention for the Protection of Archaeological Heritage revised in 1992 with the final proposal for the laws of P.Z. 71, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. The Committee also points to the need for maximum attention and high requirements when transposing international conventions, from the field of education, science and cutlery into Croatian. In this regard, we agreed with the proposing representatives to correct a nomotechnical error which was very uncomfortable to remain in the text of the law. After a discussion involving the members of the Committee, the representatives of the proposings and other participants adopted unanimously the following conclusion, the Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a law confirming the European Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage, which was revised from 1992 on an urgent procedure in the form of a proposing, in addition to this small correction agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9969	Thank you very much. Whether the remaining Committee rapporteurs want it. They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of HSP MPs, respected representative Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9970	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HSP Club, I must express my support, which I hope will confirm in 1992 the revised European Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage. The proposed law shows the extremely high standards used by the members of the Council of Europe to protect research and preserve archaeological heritage. All of this, in the text of the above-mentioned conventions and recommendations, and I also believe in well-developed legislation, which shows the European concern of raising or developing public awareness of the value of heritage. Its essential meaning for the knowledge of the past of the human race. But also efforts to ensure that protection is systematic and comprehensive. It is only clear that the principles and principles that need to be respected and that other legal acts need to be developed. Of which the good part is contained in our existing and valid laws on museum activities, i.e. the protection of cultural monuments. By reading such a well-prepared convention that defines the concept of heritage widely, and principled research and protection, I cannot figure out the vast wealth of our heritage that in some cases is measured by numbers from hundreds of archaeological sites. On certain surfaces, limited spaces. For example. the islands. I take only my loved ones, Korčula. Hvar and Vis. Where more foreign teams have been involved in research together with ours for years. And the number of sites located and described monuments is increasing from year to year. So already protected areas have been declared significant parts of these islands. The accumulated pasts of its wealth and diversity make a single commitment to the application of this Convention, and the number of monuments of its importance, and concentration, require strict consistency in application. I mention the known coincidence by which archaeological heritage is concentrated at the most attractive today by various different subjects most attacked. These are primarily coastal lines and coastal areas. All the more attractive coves. traffic routes, including our cities, which as far as I know are largely developing on their medieval ancient and even older foundations. In Croatia, we foreign rights specifically warn of Article 5, i.e. the collaboration of archaeologists with planners, which is often not at a high level, and especially in cases where initially well-imagined protection ultimately has led to adverse consequences. Local but also wider interiors are sometimes in collapsing with a waist or above it. Let us remember when the necropolis was destroyed in Isa in 1983, and under quotes, the Greek agoral was covered with an easy assembly. When the Salon was paved in 1987, and we are familiar with the gradual destruction of the Greek agitre in Old Town. The penetrating of Nero's misery in 1985 and so on. These are bad examples that need to be taught. I think that the profession itself will, in particular, support the proposal, the non-distributive methods of research, and the protection or conservation of already-moved and immobilized monuments. It is often the case that the deposits of our museums are packed with monuments unearthed a hundred years ago, and even more years ago, you mention stored in inadequate places and without documentation actually sold and before any new research is necessary to devote yourself to their protection. In the end, we believe in HSP that our archaeology as a science is humane and knowledge at the very European and world summit. And in cooperation with various world institutions, he is one of the most open of our society. It is this cooperation that confirms the wealth of our heritage. Because we are well aware that foreigners can appreciate what is truly true and therefore the club HSpa supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9971	Thank you. On behalf of the club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, a respected representative of Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9972	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Archaeological heritage is the foundation on which one nation's national identity rests. But all his encounters with other civilizations and nations. This is in Croatia's Mediterranean country, and the country of the continent is very visible and has left numerous clues in a number of cases. Therefore, this convention is one of those fundamentals for the future for generations to come. Which, on the basis of all the mechanisms offered by this Convention, will be able to practice what the anrasla was born on, what she has been through, what generations have upgraded or may have destroyed but will also develop awareness of the own roots that need to be kept on the basis of European standards. In that sense, the confirmation of this European Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage will be one of the perhaps most significant documents not only in the cultural observation of this moment in our country. It has a lot of expansion meaning and it will actually relate in some way to all those efforts I will remind you only a little of the Ministry of Culture, in that former meeting of the HDZ Government when the Ministry of Culture and how it cared for both the immersion and many other archaeological sites. For years or decades, they were not taken care of and were actually devastated. All of this today with the help of this convention with its mechanisms can get its brand-new function, a new form precisely because of what I said earlier, which is that the new generations develop consciousness and this is what the Convention says. It's about this awareness of what happened to their grandfathers, the great-grandfathers with the foundations of what something or someone came into existence on. This Convention provides for more and more comprehensive protection of cultural heritage by which Croatia abounds, especially in its archaeological findings which are rarely known, exposed to illegal excavations and alienation. We believe that by applying her when she comes to life at least part of all these unpleasant, and I would say sometimes criminal situations, she will be stopped not only because the archaeological treasure would remain where it belongs but also to protect and preserve everyone who comes. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community fully supports this Convention and the proposal for a law of urgency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9973	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Second, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the European Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage, P.Z. No. 71. The amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee have been accepted by the Proposer, I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find it unanimous with 95 votes for the Law adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9976	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, the proposed amendments and additions do not affect the material relationship of the law or change them to users, but relate to nomotechnical changes and improvements in relation to the better functioning of the Competition Protection Agency which has taken over State aid transactions, i.e. its Competition Protection Council. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. In the end, I would like to say that we accept the amendment, the two amendments of the Legislative Committee. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9977	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. SDP advocates' club, respected representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9978	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Given the text of the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Support Act and this brief opening statement by the Minister of Finance, I will also not speak for long, but I do, I will take advantage of the opportunity for a specific proposal on behalf of our club. It is already said in the opening statement that this is more of a nomotechnical nature law. The very reason is that when it was passed in 2003 and in line with European Union legislation and in its further explanation, it is said that this does not really mean harmonisation. The paper is that they are introduced into the Agency professional and advisory bodies and explain what their functions are. However, in Article 6 where official secrecy is referred only to as a dilemma, whether it is necessary to introduce it in law at all, on the grounds that the official secret is almost literally regulated in the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency and that, in Articles 23 and 24 thereof, part of Article 24 is literally copied into the very text of the law. When I said we had one proposal or one initiative, then I'm taking this opportunity to say it too. This law covers state support and support for agriculture. The new Law on Incentives and Support in Agriculture is in force for a year and last year should have actually been a preparation for the final application of this law, so it might be good for us, although there is no Minister of Agriculture here, that we are preparing certain materials, which are therefore as a preparatory year, and how it ended up around the register of agricultural producers, to which extent households that will receive income support are recorded, and I think it is the most important fact that today is the day that we took another step towards the European Union to create a programme for capital investment in agriculture, that is the third or fourth part of state aid, because it is known that agriculture cannot be restructured in a few months and not even in a few years, especially when it comes to deficit production, which is production, livestock production, and is particularly a long period for compensation of shortages in fruit and wine production. So our club doesn't object to these changes to the State Aid Act being brought about by an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9979	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9980	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Aid Act for the following reasons. It is a law in which the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is aligned with the European Community rules in the field of state aid. It is also about amendments and additions to the Law on State aids and the Law on the Protection of Competition, thus rounding the competition protection system in the Republic of Croatia, which is one of the preconditions for better functioning of the Croatian economy as a whole. Furthermore, these amendments and additions complement the provisions of the State Aid Act which accurately define the competence of the Competition Protection Agency as the operational independent body responsible for the assessment of the abovementioned rules. All these changes are considered good and useful and will therefore support the adoption of the law in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9981	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9982	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. My predecessors were quite short in their presentation despite the fact that this topic is actually strategically important for Croatia. I will make the position of the HSP Club here and repeat those arguments that we made when this law was passed. At first, I would like to remind myself of the provisions of Article 70. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement and to say that it shows all the negative consequences of the economic part of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I know that there is currently euphoria in Croatia with the entry into the European Union, but it is necessary to look at the cold heads which way we are actually going and that is, unfortunately, this is exactly the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The first act was the Public Procurement Act which completely marginalised our chances of evenly competing in European Union jobs, although nominally our firms are given equal chances, and the second act is this part of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement relating to state support. Therefore, in its paragraphs 2, 4, 6 and 7 of Article 70, it is practically talking about eliminating the support that can lead to market advantages. Therefore, Croatia must comply with the provisions of this Agreement with the views of the European Commission, the positions of the European Union and put an end to the support of those parts of its economy which may potentially endanger the profits of European firms in the common market. It should be made clear and say that if, in Article 70(6), Croatia is to draw up a comprehensive signature of the support programme set up before the establishment of the supervisory authorities of such support and that such support programmes will comply with the criteria of the European Union, then it is clear that these support programmes are in line with the interests of the European Union and not with the interests of Croatia. Everyone knows what state the Croatian economy is, we all care about exports, but we can't increase exports if we can't help our companies win the European market at the same time, and of course we won't be able to do that if over all these di di is the European Commission, so that no one, God forbid, is jeopardizing the profits of a European company. Therefore, in Article 70(7) of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Croatia has said that 4 years after the entry into force of this Agreement, it will join in harmonising its support with the interests and needs of the European Union, i.e. the European Commission. And thus, in fact, closed down any possibility of developing its economy in the Croatian interest, it has already set itself a future to develop its economy in line with European interests. I decided to show it a little bit and more clearly. Therefore, here prices of the mechanism of decision-making on state aid within the Croatian state, however, the real channel is that the European Commission, through the Stabilisation and Association Agreement Implementation Council, is affecting this state body which is to decide what kind of support will be. As paragraph 9 of Article 70 clearly states that each party may take appropriate measures through the Stabilisation and Association Council. Which means that, even if it were possible for the Croatian independent body, which determines state support, to respect Croatian interests rather than European interests, to intervene with the Stabilisation and Association Council. And that is the full truth about what is actually the role of this Croatian allegedly independent body. The other thing is that when the State Aid Act was passed, about a year ago, it was predicted that a special Croatian State Support Agency would be established and that the Agency would have at least 15 highly educated experts to deal with the problem of state aid. After that, the whole thing was reduced in a way that the whole business was transferred to the Competition Protection Agency, which is on the one hand engaged, and poorly, with the protection of the competition in Croatia. I'm saying it's pathetic because it's not teamed up enough or powerful enough to do it, and by the way, this whole surveillance and approval business of general and individual state support is getting in her way. So, not only have we tied our hands as a state, to direct state support to the Croatian economy towards Croatian national and economic interests, but we even have this situation that this body that could lead its policy is actually burdened with other businesses, which is with the protection of competition. So, Mr. Minister, we do not deny Croatia's right. Moreover, we believe it is necessary to have a strong Competition Protection Agency, but we also believe that, in accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, it was better to have a special body that would only deal with state aid and try to play this game with the European Union in the best possible way, protecting Croatian national interests. Unfortunately, the way things are now, it's not gonna be good. For all these reasons, we believe that this Law is actually a cosmetic nature, that it does not reflect the essence of the problem in which Croatia is today. And therefore this Law cannot get our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9983	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9984	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. I personally join the congratulations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Dr. Ivo Sanader on a positive avis that is unconditional, as we have heard here many times today. And precisely in accordance with this and the reasoning submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the interpretation of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Aid Act may be related in the sense that Article 70 is also an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community and their countries, the Republic of Croatia has committed to harmonising its legislation in the field of state aid. We have had opportunities over the last 4 years to see that state policy can very easily affect competition, i.e. that those companies or individuals who receive state support are practically ahead of those who did not get it. Therefore, I believe that this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State aid is not a cosmetic nature, that it enters the essence and essence and that the business taken over by the Competition Protection Agency established under the Competition Protection Act contributes to the overall resolution and rounding of the competition protection system in the Republic of Croatia. As far as the official secret is concerned, it is quite clear that, when receiving state aid, every institution, every company, every single individual working to obtain state support must clearly and transparently display its business, whether it is within the frameworks of the Republic of Croatia, whether it is business towards the outside. And it is quite clear to all those who are in a position to lead certain companies to show practically everything we know and can and can, and what can be very clearly served by competition if there is no official secret on that data, to come up with that data and to be used for it, too. For all of us, who are able to run companies, it is clear that everything that makes one brand of a company is and must be protected by official secrecy because it brings to an unfavourable position the one who is trying to get state support. Therefore, I think that this Law, these amendments to the Amendment Law and the amendments to the State aid Act, are in full compliance with the efforts to get as close as possible to entering the European Union and I fully support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9985	Thank you. Does Minister Shuker want it? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. Thirdly, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Aid Act, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 72. The amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee were accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 97 votes, it was passed a law amending and supplementing the State Support Act together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9988	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. You have before you the Law confirming the treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro on amendments and additions to the free trade agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia signed in Zagreb on 14 January 2004. The Croatian Parliament confirmed a basic free trade agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia signed on 23 December 2002 less than a year ago. However, given the political legal and institutional changes in the neighbouring country, the Serbia-Montenegro Parliament has not confirmed the contract, and it has not even entered into force. This Treaty amending and supplementing the Free Trade Agreement has made adjustments to the basic contract in accordance with the adopted action plan for the harmonisation of economic systems of Serbia-Montenegro Member States to prevent and remove obstacles to free flow of people, goods, services and capital. The conclusion of these amendments and the addition of the contract, and now with this act of confirmation in the Croatian Parliament, met the demands of a large part of the Croatian economy and entrepreneurs who are particularly interested in returning to this traditional market and in starting not only commercial, but also other economic activities in Serbia-Montenegro. The Treaty gradually establishes an area of free trade between the Republic of Croatia on the one hand and Serbia-Montenegro on the other hand, with customs duties for most industrial products being completely abolished, while for a small part of the customs trade between them will gradually be reduced, and will finally be abolished on 1 January 2007. For agricultural and food products, the contract provides for several modes of mutual liberalisation of trade, it is important to note that trade liberalisation is agreed through customs quotas for the most sensitive agricultural products, meaning that this contract should not endanger domestic agricultural production. Serbia-Montenegro's parliament confirmed a basic agreement along with its amendments and additions at the end of March this year. Confirming the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements in the Croatian Parliament will therefore allow for the full application of all these provisions on the liberalisation of trade between the two countries. It should also be noted that the trade between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro is on a steady rise. That, from $50m in trade in 1999, the exchange increased to about $268m in 2003, with Croatian exports worth over 190m. I would also like to point out that the direct investment of the Republic of Croatia in Serbia-Montenegro, i.e. by the economy of Croatia in Serbia-Montenegro, amounted to 64m dollars in the period from 94rd to third quarter of 2003. Dear ladies and gentlemen, by adopting this law and by applying the basic free trade agreement together with its amendments and additions, we will allow Croatia's companies and economic entrepreneurs to return to the Serbian and Montenegrin markets in such a way as to provide them with certain advantages in that market over exporters from other countries. It is clear to entrepreneurs that they are then taking advantage of this opportunity to increase exports in the best possible way. and I call on you to accept these amendments and to supplement the agreements between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro today and to satisfy this debate at the Parliament and thus to make the great interest that exists in the Croatian businessmen satisfactory and that they can really start their economic activities with the country. I would also like to say immediately, given the amendment that has been given to me here at a session in front of the Committee on Legislatives, which refers to Article 3 where instead of saying: "The Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship of the Republic of Croatia" would change the words "The Ministry of Economic Affairs" that this amendment is acceptable and that we accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9989	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9990	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro on Amendments and Supplements to the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The reasons for such a decision are as follows. First, the proposed agreement on amendments and additions to the contract in question adapts to the changes that took place in Serbia-Montenegro. The changes are therefore necessary in the contract, and from everything visible are adapted to the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Second, the conclusion of the contract in question creates conditions for increasing the total trade in the principles of the market economy and free trade. Trade liberalisation is of interest to Croatian businessmen and entrepreneurs who export or plan exports to Serbia-Montenegro, as they significantly increase their chances on the market there by reducing customs duties by the end of January 1st 2007. The Republic of Croatia is particularly interested in the conclusion of this contract, as Croatia notes a significant surplus in the overall trade with Serbia-Montenegro. In 2003, the surplus amounted to $114.3m, and further trade liberalisation should further increase Croatian exports to Serbia-Montenegro. Thirdly, by confirming this contract, the confirmation of this contract is also our contribution to further stabilising the situation and strengthening peace in Southeast Europe, which is one of the key foreign-political interests of the Republic of Croatia. For these reasons, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of the law in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9991	Thank you. It's the SDP representative's club, Ljubo Jurcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9992	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. A free trade agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Yugoslavia, i.e. now the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, is one of 33 free trade agreements that the Republic of Croatia has concluded in the past period mainly during the term of the previous government. The conclusion of all these contracts allowed over 80% of the international exchange of the Republic of Croatia to take place in the free trade regime, or in conditions that are very close to free trade. In addition to these bilateral contracts, Croatia concluded between the other two multilaterally significant contracts, i.e. it joined the world's most important trading organisation in 2000 and the most important regional organisation of CEFTA in 2003. And as of yesterday, a step closer to Europe's most important economic political integration, the European Union. All these contracts, both bilateral and multilateral, make it easier for Croatian businessmen to access a large number of markets, i.e. the world market. But it also made it easier for foreign producers and suppliers to access the Croatian market. In addition, through these contracts Croatia is systematically, non-organised and institutionally involved in economic, globalisation processes. This approach is a necessary condition for Croatia to benefit from globalisation processes. And sufficient conditions will be met, i.e. when Croatia establishes a competitive structure of its economy. With the existing degree of liberalisation and foreign trade in Croatia, it can be said that the Croatian market as a national increasingly disappears and that it increasingly becomes part of the European and world markets. Economic science has shown this and economic practice has confirmed this for more than 60 years that the higher degree of liberalisation of products, i.e. results in benefits or breakthroughs from external trade. The overall breakthrough, or the benefit of foreign trade, is growing as the level of liberalisation increases. These benefits are seen in increasing gross domestic product, production, increasing employment, wages, exports, in short, the country's population standard that liberalises its foreign trade. And all these eects are easy to measure. This also makes efforts to liberalise international trade through different actions and through different organisations. However, the overall breakthrough, i.e. the benefit of free international trade, was distributed differently among the participating countries. Economic science proves and economic practice confirms that most of the benefits belong to larger and more economically efficient countries. For example, the Russian Federation is a large country, not so efficient but through liberalisation it has achieved high growth rates. On the other hand, Slovenia is a small country but has created an efficient economy and has achieved high growth rates through liberalisation. Croatia, by economic definition, is not a big country, so its only option to achieve greater benefits from integration into globalisation processes is to increase the efficiency of its economy. This is why the main task of Croatian economic policy and strategy is to increase the efficiency of the Croatian economy because only in this way can Croatian citizens benefit from Croatia's accession to all bilateral regional and international multilateral economic associations. The free trade agreement with Serbia-Montenegro is economically and politically important for the Republic of Croatia. As a result of living and operating in the common country, significant measures and complementary economies have developed. Knowledge of the Serbian and Montenegrin markets was greater than knowledge of any other market. Croatian products and Croatian trade marks were widely accepted and developed very high rates of consumer preference towards Croatian products. It is therefore not surprising that trade between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia has had high growth rates since the signed Agreement on the normalisation of relations between the two countries in 1996. The exchange in 1996 amounted to only $11,000 for the year, as the minister said, to be over $267m. In addition, Serbia is the only country with which Croatia has a surplus in the international exchange its exports are moving over $191m, imports of $76m. Ratification of this Agreement will certainly increase the exports of the Republic of Croatia to Serbia, Montenegro. The entry into force of this Treaty will not only increase, encourage exports but also different forms of economic cooperation of Croatian businessmen with this neighbouring country, neighbouring countries, and above all through participation in the privatisation of their companies. With regard to the potential of this market, it should be borne in mind that Serbia-Montenegro's total imports are somewhere around $5 billion. With exports of up to $200m, Croatia participates in Serbia and Montenegro's imports with about 4%, which is very low if it takes into account the similarity and structure of the market and the proximity of our two markets. The economic analysis estimates that this share can range between 10% and 15% after this Treaty enters into force, which means that there is a possibility of increasing Croatia's exports to Serbia-Montenegro to 500 or 700 million dollars, respectively, or for cca three times. The increase in exports to this market is much easier in short than in any foreign market that the Republic of Croatia is working with. We all know what it would mean for the balance of payments, for employment, to produce an increase in exports of cca 500 million dollars, i.e. an increase in production for that amount. For this increase, the state needs to create other conditions than a contract that will be ratified today. Because it is only an increase in exports, will not happen in itself or will not happen only by autonomous action by Croatian entrepreneurs. This is primarily about defining Croatia's structural or industrial policy, which must be done as soon as possible. On the other hand, however, it should be borne in mind that imports will also increase. That trend is already visible. The growth rates of imports from Serbia-Montenegro over the next three periods are higher than the rates of Croatian exports to Serbia-Montenegro. Due to lower prices of resources, natural and human in Serbia-Montenegro, imports from this state community to Croatia will soon meet the value of Croatian exports to the country. Exports may not be able to increase to this market after a short period of perhaps 3.4 years due to the limited absorption power of this market. Therefore, the next period should be used by the Government or economic policy to coordinate the structure of the Croatian economy for the use of cheaper resources from Serbia-Montenegro to be used to create price and other characteristics of more competitive products for the European market. In fact, the European Union market is approaching $10,000 billion or euros and Serbia-Montenegro's 10 billion market is approaching, not from $10,000 billion but from $10 billion. So in the long run, and perhaps in the short run, the Serbia-Montenegro market for Croatian exports will have its limits because of the market's own absorption power. In the long term, the main Croatian excellent market is the European Union, which is practically for Croatian exports unlimited. That is why we are also drawing attention that this Free Trade Treaty with Serbia-Montenegro is important and in the broader context of Croatia's quality integration into European and international economic flows and as such, the SDP supports it. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9993	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, the word is Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9994	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. At the very beginning, on behalf of the HSP Club, I would like to draw attention to one truly strange international political practice, which is that we approach the amendment of the international treaty and ratification and amendments, while at the same time the other party, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, or Serbia-Montenegro, have not confirmed this Treaty either in that original form and that the Treaty has not therefore entered into force. So it is indeed an unusual course of events that are simply unacceptable for us in HSP because it best speaks about the political context in which all this is happening together. And this political context is political instability in Serbia-Montenegro. Equally, it is the context of the total economic chaos that is there, it is the context of the abduction of our companies that had there acted specifically on the station pump which, which had INA there, had on the department stores that Vartex and others had and in this context considered a completely casual increase in trade with Serbia-Montenegro is at least truly unserious. The fact that there is no quality control on the Croatian side of imports of agricultural and food products should also be stated here. This is not just about imports of agricultural and food products from Serbia-Montenegro. I warn this on behalf of HSP on the general problem of imports of agricultural and food products, which is that Croatia has a missing system of standards regarding food and agricultural products and almost no quality control. When some of the information appears, when a laboratory in Croatia gets enough power and goes to investigate it, then the hook and the disruptors get up immediately that they weren't accurate enough, that they weren't clear enough, that they shouldn't have gotten involved and so on. I am saying this all together because what we are mostly importing from Serbia-Montenegro is exactly food, i.e. agricultural and food products. So talk about increasing trade, not mentioning the fact that Croatia has the most yielded precisely in agricultural products means forgetting one of the fundamental facts. The negotiations were conducted by the former agriculture minister and the Serbs themselves were surprised by how much Croatia gave way to imports of agricultural and food products. So in a group of 20 groups of fruit and vegetable-related products and their processing, Serbia has dropped from 30% to 25%, and on the other hand, Croatia has caved from 70% to 25%, respectively. So it is really unclear why it took so much to give in when we are at the same time aware of the fact that it is difficult to penetrate the Serbian market. This kind of trading regime despite the existing surplus that Croatia has, which we welcome, is still not acceptable enough for us in the HSP so that we can talk to superlatives about this economic exchange as did my predecessor former SDP minister. We therefore believe that Croatia must increase its exports at all costs, that Croatia must not rely solely on a line of less resistance and push these exports only to the territory of Serbia because we know that there is a complete purchasing power of the country for the sake of a low standard of equal purchasing power of Zagreb itself, but that Croatia must develop its system of promotion of products abroad, its placement system and exports of our products abroad, and I repeat, not only relying on a line of less resistance, or on markets that our companies had before the time so-called. SFRY. In this regard, we cannot support such a law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro because I repeat all the negotiations that were conducted did not take into account the context of political stability, economic stability, the fact that Serbia has not yet returned the seized property to us, and in particular no budgets of the impact of excessive imports of fruit and vegetables and other agricultural and food products on the development of the domestic economy in particular agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9995	Thank you. Honored MPs, honourable MPs in accordance with Article 204. I propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda at the point of the Proposal for an Agreement on the Cooperation of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bulgaria in the framework of the approximation and accession of the European Union. Any objections? Thank you. Let's move on to the next one. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9996	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of two words about what the honourable representative Mr. Tadic said. If we look at the structure of imports from Serbia-Montenegro then we will see slowly that agriculture is not the largest item in the imports, but on the other hand we have an explanation. In the commodity exchange are actually in the structure products of iron, steel products, oil, mineral oils while the fruit is all with 3.5%, vegetables in similar frames and starches and the like. Thus, the structure does not speak of this danger that anything could happen in the trade of goods to the detriment of Croatian agriculture. I think the negotiations have just been done. It's a job that started in 2002. We're increasing the trade from $225 million to 268, and it's especially important that we have a quality surplus of 172 million kuna in 2001 and 191 million last year. So we're still increasing that. It is important to apply a reduction in customs duty according to the principle of the most privileged nation. Of course, it will allow for further increase in the trade of goods, and here because of the market that I will call softly under quotes, it is certain that there are also additional spaces and opportunities to increase this. I also believe that each other's quantitative limits, which are the subject of this contract, are well balanced. They refer in particular to sensitive products that will actually gradually reduce customs duties and will happen over the next few years to zero rates. Because of this, the HSS will support the bill's proposal to confirm the contract, however, what we would still like to highlight this contract does not mean that we will also achieve success unless we prepare other activities. I believe that all those of us who have a quality export product must be supported with credit lines that will finance the preparation of goods for production, which will also be financed by an ino of the buyer. This is still a rather politically sensitive area, so we will probably have to support exporters with guarantees there to ensure that they are secure in their payment, and I hope that as part of an active policy to increase exports under this contract we will be able to identify entrepreneurs who can become players of the region and spread right to the Serbia-Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina area, so if they want to buy some acquisitions there. I also think it is important for economic diplomacy to study this contract well and be available to all those who wish to increase exports to Serbia and Montenegro. I think it's important that we use these advantages at our disposal. I will remind you that there is probably still a good habit there to buy Croatian products. There are a lot of Croatian equipment that needs to be serviced in any case, and it is likely to be sold new, and it is not even irrelevant that a similar language is spoken, so communication is much easier if there is a trade between parts of the countries. For all this, the HSS will support the proposal for a bill to confirm the contract between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9997	Thank you. With this, we've exhausted the debate by the clubs for the individual debate no one answered. And with a habit, I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. The vote will be later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9998	4. Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro on Amendments and Supplements to the Free Trade Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the SR of Yugoslavia, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 80. The amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee was accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, with 92 votes for, one against and six abstentions, the law in the text has been adopted, as proposed by the Government along with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u9999	The 5th item of the agenda of the future defence minister is not present in the assembly, I also suggest that we move on to 8. We'll do the agenda item after six and seven if the defence minister doesn't show up in the meantime. 8. Proposal for a double-use export law, first and second reading. P.Z. No. 78; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal by mail. When adopting this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The breakdown was carried out by the Committee on Legislatives, and by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session, if the applicant's representative wishes to further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10000	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here's a proposal for a law on double-intentioned isosceles that regulates a whole new area. It is regulated by an area which has so far had no law and we believe that it is very important and important in the spirit of our accession and harmonisation of legislation with the European Union to have such a law. But also for other reasons and for the taxation of Croatia, the state and government in the direction that regulates this law. This proposal regulates the export of dual-purpose goods and exports of goods including computer technologies. Which can be used for both civilian and military purposes. This law also lays down the competent authority of the State Administration for the issue of export licences, the procedure, the criteria for issuing licences, the obligations of exporters, ministries and administrative bodies. Control of exports of dual-purpose goods where implementing rules as well as criminal provisions are to be laid down. An effective general system of export control of dual-purpose goods is necessary to respect the international obligations and responsibilities of the Republic of Croatia, especially through the contribution to preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction. As I have already said in the Republic of Croatia, this area has not been regulated so far. Therefore, the lack of legislation establishing a system of rules for ensuring export control of dual-use goods is not limited. The list containing the list of dual-purpose goods will be submitted by the Government within 6 months of the date of the date of the date of the date of the entry into force of this Act, and that list of goods will be consistent with the internationally agreed supervision of the export of dual-use goods. The export licence will also be required for goods not listed in the event that the Ministry of Economy, informs the exporter that they are goods which could be intended for the production and dissemination of chemical, biological or nuclear weapons. The export licence will also be required if the goods are intended for the countries under which the UN Security Council has taken measures to maintain and restore international peace and security. As well as these provisions included comprehensive control of exports of such goods. The proposed law stipulates that dual-purpose goods can only be exported on the basis of a permit issued by the Ministry of Economy, based on a proposal from the Commission appointed by the Minister of Economy. The Minister responsible for economic affairs is represented by representatives of foreign and internal affairs ministries, defences, customs and the economy. They depend on the end-user of the nature or type of goods, the representatives of the other authorities of the state administration responsible for the mentioned problem. In order to implement this law, additional funding from one million kuna should be provided in an expensive budget for 2005. And the double-use export law will apply from 1 January 2005 afterwards, with implementing regulations that will allow for the full application of this law. The Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship assumes the obligation to organise a seminar for businessmen in order to get acquainted with the problem of the new law because it is quite as I have already said about a whole new area that regulates the one regulated by this Law. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the proposal for a double-use export law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10001	I thank Minister Vukelic. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Dear Representative Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10002	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 7th session held on 20 April 2004 discussed the proposal of the Double-Foreign Train Act. The President of the Croatian Parliament was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 1 April 2004. The Committee shall be based on Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the proposal for a law on the export of dual-purpose goods discussed in the capacity of the home working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out the reasons for the submission of this bill. The debate that followed was supported by the reference of this proposal to cover the procedure foreseen for first reading. In view of the fact that the matter regulated by this bill is a whole new text of the bill should be as clear and precise as possible. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The question has been raised as to why the amount of fines for the same offences is ten times greater for the legal person than the one prescribed for the craftsman. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament. First, the proposal for a law on the export of dual-use goods and secondly, opinions, suggestions and proposals to be submitted in the debate shall be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10003	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HD ClubFor the esteemed representative Gordan Jandroković.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10004	Here's a little bit of the subject. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community accepts the proposal for a law on the export of dual-use goods. The reasons for such a position are the following. This law regulates a matter that has not been legally regulated in Croatia so far. It is therefore necessary to pass a law which would systematically regulate the export of dual-use goods. This is particularly important because it is about goods that can be used except for civil and military purposes and effective control of exports from the Republic of Croatia necessary. It is particularly important that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, within 6 months, draw up a precise list of goods, so that there are no different interpretations and abuses. It is also important to stress that this law is a prerequisite for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community accepts the proposal for a double-use export law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10005	Thank you. We don't have any more reports. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Zdravko Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10006	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I would just like to say briefly that this proposal for a double-use law should be supported primarily in order to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with European Union legislation. The law requires the provision of an effective system, export control of goods, with dual purpose. In order to allow respect for, above all, international obligations, but also the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia in exporting these goods, dual-use goods are those goods that can be used for both military and civilian purposes, and it is certain that there will be those that will not be easily or classified as belonging to one or another group and those as such must be subject to effective control when exporting the same goods from the Republic of Croatia. Since this area has not been regulated in the Republic of Croatia, it is logical to adopt such rules to ensure such export control of the same goods. It should come from the fact that this is a completely new substance and that the law obliges primarily economic operators to act, and that it is possible if there is inaccuracies in the normative part of the law that could in its application cause difficulties primarily in economic operators. That's why I think this law should be passed and can be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10007	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. It is up to the honourable representative Krešimir Cosic. He's not present. And finally, on behalf of the HSP club, five minutes of respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10008	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. The HSP's club welcomes the adoption of this law and is on the other hand well that this law is in regular procedure so that a whole series of ambiguities about this law can be clarified until final adoption. In the beginning, I must mention the fact that the Government finds that Croatia is a participant and a party to a whole series of international non-proliferation contracts, a ban on nuclear testing, control of chemical weapons, various conventions concerning excessive wounding or banning of certain types of weapons. This is all good, however, I ask the Government a very clear question, who normally implements these conventions specifically when it comes to non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, i.e. a ban on nuclear testing from legal material when we have adopted these conventions in the Croatian Parliament, is not clearly indicated who is otherwise implementing them, so it is difficult to figure out who will otherwise bring this matter into line, therefore the matter of exporting those goods from Croatia, which can be used for example for the development of nuclear weapons, i.e. chemical and bacteriological weapons. Modern warfare is very complex and it is really difficult to make a very clear list of those goods that could not be used for any kind of threat whether it is an attack on economic operators or an attack on objects of full military use. I am particularly saying this in the context of today's wider terrorist threats, and it is therefore good to include as many representatives of the economy and scientific institutions as possible in the final draft of the law and all the accompanying regulations as possible, because they are best directed at this problem and can give the Ministry of Economy and the Croatian Government ideas that can indeed be used to create weapons of mass destruction. But I have here a whole series of amendments submitted by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and therefore I consider Mr. Ministers and our club of HSP to believe that these discussions from the Chamber of Commerce needed to be included in the final version of the law. For example, the definition of exporters is not adequately defined in this Article 2 of this Act, since exports as an activity do not exist. Furthermore, if exports are related to the performance of the activity, then it is unclear what constitutes a concept of residence. There are also comments on Articles 3, 5, 9, 10, 16, 17 and 18. In particular, an interesting observation relating to Article 10, which you are careful, suggests that an export licence is annulled after the goods which may be used for the manufacture of weapons of mass destruction have already been exported. So it's meant to act backwards, and the damage has already been done. So there's a lot of objections from the Chamber of Commerce, and I'm asking you to include as many people from science and people from the economy as possible in the final draft of the law. In that sense, the HSP club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10009	I thank the honourable representative, Tadic. In front of the HSS Club, respected representative Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10010	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the HSS Club will support this proposal, but I believe that we will agree on how to give a number of improvements to the second reading and to bring this law together in full to cover this important area called dual-purpose goods that can serve military purposes. What I would like to see more in the bill is that we are also solving temporary imports if it happens for the post of completion and exports to cover this more complete area, and Mr Tadic's doubts about residence simply refer to craftsmen who, of course, also have their own personality. They are not legal persons, they are natural persons, so if they deal with exports then these provisions apply to them as well, as regards the address of the better said residence. I would also like to advocate that, in the making of the rules, we hire as many professions as possible and as little state as possible, because this is a sensitive issue and of course they must be representatives of not only the competent ministry, the state administration but also of the scientific institutions and representatives of the economy, of course, working in this area. Article 3 provides that they may participate. I think it's unusual how we should write in the law that they are involved. So in the preparation of the regulations, they certainly can help. I am not sure that this law will not be a new administrative barrier unless we also improve it, because we say that the regulations need to determine which goods and services have a dual purpose, and at the same time those that export must be constantly under way with changes in the list, or theoretically they need to know what might be on the list so that we suggest that this is more precisely defined that the list is established and possibly supplementing it so that there are no doubts that could result even as larger and mentioned by the cancellation of the export licence. The same applies to the countries to which the Croatian exporter is exporting, as I assume that the Security Council does not bring in every United Nations, does not exactly take measures every day towards countries where exports are banned. These improvements are not difficult to make, and radical change should possibly still take place in Article 7 where the ministry is said to issue an export licence on the basis of a proposal from the Commission. The problem, however, is that the commission is appointed by the minister. I believe that this should be proposed by the Minister, and that the Commission should be appointed by the Government for its importance, and here I advocate that there should be civil institutions in this commission other than the representatives of the state. If I didn't explain specifically why it would be good. The profession and science, of course, are welcome for the composition of this committee so that we should also specify who is within the commission, of course for what. In Article 9, I believe that the deadlines are too long, that the state is still comfortable, so it gives itself the opportunity to decide within 60 days from issuing a permit to issuing a solution. That is, within 90 days if additional checks are to be carried out. In those deadlines it is possible to completely lose, and I am more than sure that the state can be more drastic there, that it can be better, faster, and all in favour of the economy and those who choose to try to sell their goods or services in export. Finally, I stress, a good proposal that will regulate a whole new area and the HSS supports the proposal for a law on exporting dual-purpose goods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10011	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative, Pecek. Does the Minister want a final? We've exhausted the debate on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. The vote will follow later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10012	Proposal for a Law on the Export of Goods with the dual purpose of P.Z.E. No. 78. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The proposal of the Export Act for dual-use goods is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 102 votes to be adopted, this conclusion has been reached. I ask Vice President Luka Bebić to continue to chair the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10013	We're going back to agenda six now, six. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, with the Final Proposal, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 77. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail, in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Minister Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10014	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposed text of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, with the Final Proposal for a Law referred to in a parliamentary debate under an emergency procedure, the provisions of the applicable Law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks related to the Administration of the Agency, shall be brought into line with the amendments to the regulations governing the formation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the structure and part-line name of the ministries and other bodies of the State Administration from which the Administration of the Agency consists. Since there is no longer the office of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the office of Minister of Economy, this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, with the final proposal of the Law, it is proposed that the Administration of the Agency constitute the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia in charge of the Economy, which is the President of the Administration. President of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, acting as Deputy President of the Administration, State Secretary of the Central Office for State Property Management, Member of the Administration, Minister of Finance Member of the Administration, Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament, member of the Board of Management. This Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks with the Final Bill, proposes the appointment of the Director of the Agency for a period of 4 years, instead of a valid normative solution which provides for the appointment of the Director for a period of 6 years. And the purpose of the proposed amendment is to balance the term of office of director in all legal persons whose founder and majority owner is the Republic of Croatia. This Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks with the Final Proposal of the Law, also proposed the addition of the provision of the applicable Act, which provides for the possibility of a resolution of the Director of the Agency and before the expiry of the period for which it was appointed. In view of the fact that legal changes have been made in the structure and in part and the name of the Authority of the State Administration from which the Agency's administration is appointed over the past period, we propose the adoption of this Act by emergency procedure for further smooth work of the Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10015	I thank Minister Shuker. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a 15-minute club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative of the Arthrial Shima.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10016	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you very much. Part of the reasoning in the introduction we heard, why it is necessary to pass the law by emergency procedure, however, there are a few more reasons to be presented. The State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks has already experienced a certain metamorphosis in its work from draft to today. Its activities are also regulated by a whole series of laws, just some cited, the Banks Act, the Bank Restructure and Restructure Act, the Deposit Insurance Act, etc. and some dictating, or laws that have ended their phase, such as the Law on the Insurance of Savings and Rehabilitation of Banks, which, in fact, now that they are all looked at together and multiply regulated, the activities that this Agency has done in some way. So we think that, in addition to that stage of business she had, I would say primarily in the first phase of bank recovery, which is still likely to end and is somewhere in the final phase, she needs to get completely different and new contents, which is the primary task of securing savings roles as the title says. In order to regulate both areas, it is necessary to access the entire, very urgent, very fast, probably after this, to regulate the legal, normative arrangement of the work of this Agency. This is the second reason why we believe that it is now necessary to access the first arrangement of the situation and relations within the house with this key task, i.e. the implementation of an existing organisation in the Croatian Government system. There are two fundamental reasons and therefore the HDZ Club is behind the fact that this Act should be adopted by emergency procedure and that we will then also approach the arrangement of this area which is extremely important because the Croatian state guarantees the work of this Agency and that savings insurance can have serious consequences for both the Croatian state and the budget. That's the fundamental reason why we think it's urgent to arrange this area, and so it's necessary to set up people who will consistently implement it. These are reasons why the HDZ Club supports this law by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10017	I'd like to thank the Honorable Representative of the Wrestlers. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10018	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It was very well noticed by a representative of the HDZ Club that the role of the Agency on the insurance of savings roles and the resolution of banks was greatly spent by law. It should be recalled that the Agency was founded in 94 when banking and banking crises ruled in Croatia. So the role was worth it then and it was significant, because the banks were also state-owned and almost everything. Today, the important situation has changed, and we in Croatia do not own the state of banks. But we have to have a life insurance agency. It's our currency, it's our citizens, and this institution is really valuable and important. It is precisely because it is valuable and important that there are interesting details in the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks. Namely, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, under a firm that is truly justified by formal harmonisation of the Agency Act with the Law on Government and Ministry and Ministry Organization, proposes something that is not the meaning of the law or agencies. She suggests that the parliament allow it despite the purpose and reason why it was intended for the agency to be appointed to 6 years, to reduce its mandate to four years. So, instead of independence and the security of the agency's management, the government is offering us dependence on government, agency and administration. Very interesting. So that really speaks of the character of power. That it is also the history of that agency, because the agency was founded in 94 and in the first original text of the law the jurisdiction and control of that institution was in Croatia to the National Bank, and as you all know here, it is the fourth power in every democratic state. Independent, independent fourth power. In view of this, I am really surprised by the proposal that the Government is asking the Croatian Parliament to give it an arbitration decision when it will be replaced by the director of the agency. Because the law does not state the reasons for the shift, but requires that its mandate be reduced and that it may decide when to replace the director of the agency. Of course, it can be spoken with arguments, can be talked about reasons, can be political, but it would be very correct for them to be stated in the law. Instead of Parliament, the Croatian Parliament is pushing the rule of law, so that the law provides the reasons for the resolution of anyone, to ensure the stability and security of an institution along the way, the law is also qualified as specific and does not even say what, whether it is an institution, administration, administrative organisation, rather than a financial institution, instead of ensuring independence, the Government, therefore the Proposer, offers and asks the Croatian Parliament to ensure arbitration. If the agency, and its core task now remains to be a guarantee of savings roles, and the basis of the bank's business is just trust in banks, and this strengthens that trust, so the state guarantees to some extent the security of the savings roles of citizens in banks, then it is quite clear and necessary for the agency to be dependent on the government. And especially to have her director named by the government. If we further promote it, the question arises, why would the Law on Transfer of Power serve? If we can't replace someone under the Law on Transfer of Power, then we can by special law. Let's change the special law. For example, it's this law. I must say, as a lawyer, I am surprised even by the formulation of Article 3 of the bill, that the appointment of a new administration will stop the mandate of the current administration of the state agency. So even the government does not have to make a decision on the resolution, but the via facts and ex-legation will stop the current agency administration as soon as the government appoints a new administration. In this way, this article 3 of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Agency Act must be read. By the way, since we don't even have a defined structure and hierarchy of state administrations and state administrations. I'd like someone qualified by the government to say, is that a financial organization, so a financial institution, is that a administrative organisation, is that an institution? That would depend on whether members of the board of the most important members of the Parliament can be representatives of the financial agency, or the savings insurance agency? Does this mean that making decisions at the agency will also be covered by the parliament's participation in those decisions? That means we've mixed up two authorities, two competencies. Therefore, the executive authority or insurance company or bank or administrative organisation and legislative authority, based on the fact that the two presidents of the Board of the Croatian Parliament will be in the management of the savings insurance agency. I believe that the intention to comply with the law on the composition of the Supervisory Board must not be used by the administration for the purposes of this law. The legislator himself, as well as the proposer of the HDZ Club of Representatives, argues that a thorough reorganization, study and design of the Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks is essential since the time of the draft. For these reasons, and especially because the Croatian Parliament is required that, despite our constitutional tasks, we develop and design the rule of law and the rule of law, we require that we pass a law that ensures that the Government rules arbitrarily when it replaces the management of the agency, the SDP Club cannot support and will vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10019	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative, Leckie. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10020	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The HSP club will not support the adoption of this law, the reason is very simple. In fact, it is obvious that the intensities to amend this law are contained in Article 2, which is to reduce the length of the Director's mandate and to resolve the existing Director. We have no objection to an existing director being resolved. But we are against the fact that such special laws regulate things that are essentially to be regulated in one whole bill, we have also proposed this in the previous assembly of parliaments, which is the Law on the Transfer of Authorities. If our proposal or our bill had been amended in the previous assembly, we today would not have had these problems, but the situation would have been clear and it is clear that Mr Filipovic came on the political line on that duty and it is a simple and clear situation that even as such he can leave the post. Therefore, the situation is quite clear but changing, and also the next item of the agenda is related to this FINU, the same legal situation, so the change of law is only in urgency to change the law in a way that the mandate is reduced and that the government's authority can now resolve the director, in this case it is about the State Agency. We would support this law if that law changed in its name, namely, I don't know why we have more in the name of the law and the resolution of banks, I don't know why. We know ourselves that our banks, that we no longer have any state banks in the full sense of that word and we still have the law to protect in essence foreign banks that interest us and the interest rates of Croatian citizens. And then we're just ready to protect and implement the recovery of these banks. I told the current morning in a few examples of people addressing the Croatian Party Club of Rights and MPs when... It is clear that there are many such Croatian citizens who because of the alleged debt of kuna, two or three have entered the scales of the interest, means the lender, or by racketeering, whether it is the banks that we are protecting here and are prepared to do so by law and to resuscitate them, whether it is the savings, other legal and physical persons, in a way that they remain without the whole property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we know that this situation in Croatia has been evident since the 95th, 96th, and therefore people are rightly suspected of a murky authentic interpretation that we have not yet won on the benches, which the Government is proposing to us regarding the Law on tight interest. Obviously there was a variant when it came to a large bank, which is the same in private hands that experienced the fate of such a nature as they did to Croatian citizens that they now on the same team... They have to pay a large amount of money, then they're going to an authentic interpretation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The results of this authentic interpretation both according to judges and lawyers are discriminatory, the issue of renewal is all that we should have a state agency to secure savings roles and protect Croatian citizens. So from foreign banks in a way because it's impossible for public notebooks to verify the loan agreements, which is that our interest rate is 5% a month and achieves 60% annually, that no one in the court controls it and can control it when the National Bank does not deal with it and we come into a situation where people are left without all the property. I would just like to remind you of the situation that has happened to us so far in Croatia, according to our data 33 banks have failed, so they have entered the recovery project and what the results are, we know how they have recovered, the burden of taxpayers. And now that we see that these banks are normally privatized, so sold into foreign hands, we've come to the data that it's only 15% of the money invested in the recovery of these same banks. And then we have to ask ourselves who's crazy here now, why is that recovery being carried out in a way that protects the interests of the citizens and the state is who was selling it only got 15% of what was invested in it. It must also be said here that once again it is a law that we have discussed on the Committee on Legislatives which has 4 articles and we have to react with 3 amendments. It's so bad-prepared law that it says on page three, you don't even know the name of the law anymore. It is said: The final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Insurance of Savings and Rehabilitation of Banks and we know that it is the Law on State Agency. That is precisely what we see in Article 3 when it is again listed that the director of the agency appointed again is not the full name of the law. Therefore, this is obviously quite rapid, and this gives me the right to say that the fundamental urgency of the whole of this Law is an amendment to Article 2 and that should not be heard at all from what the HSP is saying. And I need to re-evaluate what we know is happening, so we warn some of them it takes six months, some six years, and some of them can never come to this situation that the state means a timely response and in the interest of protection and taxpayers and citizens themselves. Therefore, we expect urgent changes to this Law in the way we have spoken. And to put it to be not only the Agency on the provision of savings, which normally must exist but also the Agency on the protection of Croatian citizens from interest, interest and racketeering of foreign banks and all Durgians, which is, let's face it, it is immorally mildly said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10021	Thank you. It's on behalf of the HSS Club, the respected representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10022	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This is probably one of the most expensive laws that we adopt in view of its effects because the effects obviously contained in Article 2 which states that the purpose of the law which says to reduce the mandate from 6 to 4 years, so that in that part we are not in line with the European practice that is just saying that these and these institutions need a difference, a reserve is necessary in terms of the mandate between the political mandates that political parties achieve in the elections and mandates that are acting in the institutions that care for the security of the financial system or even more important about the security of citizens because they are primarily concerned with the security of citizens. Therefore, it is clear that the task of this Law to create conditions for the replacement of the current director of the state agency, Mr Filipovic, could have been done much simpler than having to discuss this through such a difficult way. But if it weren't for all this, I'd like to remind myself on behalf of the HSS Club from 98th when the State Agency was founded until today what it was, what it was, what it was doing and how it went to this day. As has been said here since the 98th year, the Agency has been established and savings insurance is implemented by the very provisions of the Law on the State Agency and the basis of the rules. And the goal of this entire system that exists today is to secure savings roles whose task is to protect savings roles, citizens in banks and savings in the Republic of Croatia and in case financial institutions come into bankruptcy. Their task, therefore, is primarily to protect citizens. The level of the secured savings role in Croatia is 100 thousand kuna and compared to the European Union where it then moves between 20 and far more in some countries, we can say that Croatia is also in this sense within these so-called small savings are consistent with such action. When the biggest problem arose and the practical agency was to act, when the citizens found themselves most damaged and what was the greatest damage to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? First of all, the biggest bankruptcy procedures that were conducted were conducted during the 99th year and then Glumina Banka, in respect of it the highest number of payments was made 38%, followed by City Bank, County Bank 16%, HGB Savings Bank and other banks. By the end of 2003, a total of 24 bankruptcy proceedings were launched on banks and savings banks and the total Daba obligation to pay off the secured savings reached 2.7 billion kuna. The biggest payment was made in 2000 by nearly two billion kuna. Just for reasons of bankruptcy proceedings that took place in 1999. Thus, huge efforts have been made to ensure and pay off such a high amount of funds to citizens who have been knocking on the doors of the state agency day and night. Of course, the premiums of deposit insurance could not fully cover such high risks that occurred during 1999 and the State Agency was forced, of course, by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to find new forms, new ways to finance these insurance funds. What is also worth saying is that at that time the funds that were supposed to make the insurance savings amounted to 7% of the total savings of all the citizens in banks and savings. So the risk was huge. What this Amendment and the amendment of the law should be dealt with and what is very well noted is that there can be reasons for amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency lies first and foremost in the fact that so-called Treatments of small and large savings. This has been mentioned several times, and given that the large ones save in a case where savings are over 100,000, 100,000 kunas have additional benefits in the bank compared to other savings, such as the preferential interest rate agreed on for larger amounts, their own referenda may also favoured loans which were often the case in some banks in bankruptcy. So DAB has the knowledge that some big savings in these banks had more interest on the deposit than on a loan in the same bank. Of course, such phenomena also led to those resulting in bank bankruptcy. So the issue of equality of savings treatment, regardless of the limit of 100 thousand kuna, is very questionable because large savings are available to other instruments where they can benefit from insurance and even in that order of payment in the event of savings, in the event of bankruptcy compared to small savings. All of this is in support of all those who have manifested themselves in relation to this Act that it is somewhat irresponsible to such serious material and also recent amendments and additions to the Bank Act that have just given the State Agency a certain role, especially in the case of the liquidation of banks and savings banks where they have dominantly taken over the role, that more attention and more analytical consideration should be given to the assessment of the results of the State Agency, on the assessment and roles, the role of this State Agency and, of course, what counterpart Leko said should be addressed and the legal status and assess what the character of this is, whether this is an institution, whether it is a financial institution or something third. Of course, we didn't get anything from it all, we just got a very simple amendment to Article 2 that says that it changes, reduces the mandate from 6 to 4 years. I think that this is simply not a good practice and that this is not a good job, so it may also cause doubts about the seriousness of the entire financial system, which, of course, should represent a fully independent institution that must not in any way be thrown out by political arbitration or in any way that, by reason of these or those assessments, the law itself is in question. Because of everything said, the HSS Club will not support the amendments and additions to this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10023	I thank the esteemed representative Markov. This is what we've concluded with the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. It is next to the distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10024	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This is, for the first time, a law in which the legislative authority is being dragged into shifts, and I really think that this home as the highest legislative body is much more appropriate to deal with other more important and important laws for the development of our country than to deal with laws that change one or two articles, and only with one single goal, which is to change the person in charge of the DAB. I absolutely support the right of any authority to put those people in the lead and those who think they will implement the programme of the current government and the current party, however, there are some places where similarity is less important, where much more important is the expertise of people who will therefore be in the leading places of some institutions, among other things, I think that this institution that this law is about, which is DAB. It should be kept in mind that there are only 8% of highly educated people in this very small country, out of the 4 million inhabitants. So there are no highly educated, educated and professional people in this country so much that we can move them every time some government changes, so when a party strukut is changed in power and we give up those people who have done their job well and quality regardless of which party they belong. And it seems to me that all of this so far, most of it is about people's shifts not because they were incompetent, not because they weren't doing their job well, not because they weren't willing to work and implement this government's programme, but because they had to be satisfied by party activists of the current ruling party. I think it's a very bad policy. I think we should run a policy that looks at who's doing what and how professional he is for his job, not what kind of party he belongs to and who's appointed by the government. Unfortunately, in the past six sessions of this new assembly, we have had many and too many laws that have been written for individuals. This law that we have before us today, the Law that we will later discuss, so the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Financial Agency, which is also written to replace the head man of the FINA, so we have so far had a lot of laws of that kind, so we have written laws after Mrs. Knešourec's affair at the Bureau, so we wrote the law for Mr. Marijan Križić in the Bureau, so we wrote the law about Mr. Chachia. So there are a lot of laws that we've written so far because of certain individuals, and that's just something that's absolutely unacceptable. It is unacceptable because, for example, in the last three sessions including this 71-point agenda today, 26 laws have proposed opposition, which means it is 36%. My only message on this bill to you government gentlemen is that I think it's high time you went along with the writing of serious system laws that solve this country's problems, and you could do the shifts some other way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10025	Correction of an incorrect allegation. Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10026	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, it is a false assumption that for the first time in this House, the law of the army shifts. That's not true. We have seen many such moves over the past four years. Although this one doesn't belong in that domain. And the inaccurate assumption is that they're taking shifts just to get party activists to take a position because there aren't enough quality people. That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10027	Thank you. Dear Zgrebc's honors are in order.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10028	Mr. Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, one part of the amendments to these laws I would support if they had been maintained only in Article 1 and none of us would possibly have discussed the way we're going to discuss it today. In Article 1, the Agency’s management is spoken of and changes accordingly in accordance with the government’s new structure, and there are no objections there. Already in Article 2 the term of office of director is reduced from 6 years to 4 years, and I think it's bad. Because the director of such a specific agency as the insurance agency for savings and bank recovery. It should not be in line with the mandate of the executive and legislative authorities, and this is the reason why his term of office should have lasted 6 years. A new item is added, which is the most questionable, where it is said that the Government aRH can resolve the director of the agencies ei before the time to which it is appointed. It would not be so questionable that the reasons behind this could be stated that the director of the agency could be resolved. Because it is written in almost all the statutes of companies when it is said when the president of the administration can be resolved before the term of office, in some other institutions and so on. If we had that, then if we knew what those conditions were under which he could be resolved before the term of office ended, we would probably discuss it differently. However, throughout the law, the most important article 3 is that the director of the agency appointed under the law of this law ceases his term of office by appointment of the new director of the agency. Therefore, the most important thing is Article 3. So, accordingly, Parliament is, in this way, being dragged into the staffing process. So if a man were mean, it would be better if the law were called Marine Filipovic's Change Act. Then we'd actually tell the real truth. I'd say a few words about the agency itself. She played a major role after the rygue of the major banking crisis, so at the end of the 1990s, DAB found that in her portfolio after the recovery of large bank recoverys and later ran a large number or largest number of banks that the poor assets of these banks had been transferred to her porphyle. Therefore, it was necessary to manage such a poor activity and commitments, and payments under such commitments. On the other hand, in the beginning of 2000, more than 2 billion kunas were found in the DAB for the secured savings that were actually paid at 99. Because then you're the biggest number of savings and you're looking for your security savings. Kona was paid by December 2000 over 90% in different ways. In fact, one part of this is today this government debt which, in fact, on the rise of the loan or the issue of bonds, was covered by the secured savings in 2000. And when we ice actually as the DAB official, he has an administration made up of representatives of the executive and legislative authorities, so the political executive authority is involved in the cross-government. And management makes all decisions that are later implemented by DAB, of course, as a responsible person, the director who implements the decisions and manages the agency appears here and is responsible for its work and implementation. In other words, he's an expert man. I would expect this law to actually regulate the way DAB's director is set up and at least what I expected if we are already going to change this law that then it is regulated in a way that the director as a professional person who must have professional qualities is appointed, not named, but placed in a contest. It would actually be an assumption that we get the most professional man at the head of the state bank recovery agency and the insurance of savings deposits. Of course, a law of this sort said that the president of our club couldn't support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10029	Thank you, dear colleague Zgrebec. We have one correction to the incorrect alleged vice president of House Luka Bebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10030	I'm fulfilling Mrs. Zgrebec's incorrect assumption that the Parliament is engaged in staff shifts. The parliament began to deal with human resources not now but already has a few years, not to be replaced by the law, but also by the constitution. So we replaced the President of the Supreme Court with the Constitution, and we replaced the State Judicial Council Article 146. The Constitution. The first director of the agency was appointed in 98 and his term of office was not 6 years but 2 years. Because it was changed in 2000.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10031	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let's move on with the individual debate. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović called for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10032	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, The draft law amending and supplementing the law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Savings and Rehabilitation of Banks could indeed create an illusion among citizens that would not be the first to change, however, something in the law that would better ensure their savings. However, as has already been said here, it would be open why not name the content of the law without naming the name of the law by its content. And call him how to get rid of the director without any extra why. Namely, this Article 2 and in an explanation, and we heard Mr. Minister and here also the text itself, /The speech was excluded/...to align the time of the term of office with all other mandates of the Agency of Public Institutions whose founder is Government. So it could even coincide with the government's mandate. However, the administration of the law's intensities and as set out in the law was that it does not match the government's mandates, just so that one government that appoints could reach a person who will be acceptable to each government because it is doing such a person a good job. But to allow that government if there is a shift after the election in half the term that unless she is satisfied with that person or still has one even better person to appoint her. That was the point. It was basically a sense of how to start with a good rule. The truth is no one argues with the government that it appoints certain persons as the law does. So let's not rush a government act here because it belongs to the government with some kind of administrative act. Or what this proposal does, and it seems, as it also did here, was really mentioned that we are running an expensive parliamentary procedure here, something that could have been done without the law. The law doesn't need to be a cover. Let it be the will of the government. One that will not be transparent, which will be able to cause certain public doubts that it has been done for voluntary reasons, then that is the government's problem, but it is a risk of taking responsibility for the decisions being made. And then when laws are passed as was the existing law, it has this intensity just to dilute that volunteerism of every government, especially when it comes to human beings, to get to the best people who will be, who will do their housework when they're at the head of one institution, one agency. After all, regardless of the government’s right to choose, good governments always do so in a transparent way, they do so in a way that the more they remove this suspicion from the public that it was precisely because of a certain will of the rulings, not without certain benefits. So the intensity was that these relations of governance as laws originally set it up to be rational, that candidates who run know how to compete with others, because of their better professional references which are often not questionable and are not difficult to weigh which of the candidates is better, so to be calculating, to be predictable. But here it is now that the six-year deadline has been lifted, we have already heard here and from the representatives of the club it seems to me that the HSP has been talking about the intensity and standards of the European Union, precisely the urgency that it does not match the mandate of such persons with the mandate of one government to take this step towards a good government. In this way I say instead of taking a step forward, we're taking a step back and that's what's really not good. If the results of the work, because that's what the government always has to run, I think it's enough to ask ourselves a question that we have or someone our own company and ask it as if it were our company, that we would put a certain person in that place. That's the fundamental question where one good authority answers. If she is convinced that it is such a person that she will be able to get the best results, that it does not depend exactly on any party belonging, that parties and parties have their own quality people that no one talks, does not slow down, but if it is set in such a way without any criteria, then the question is why it is necessary to resolve it by law. This sets out to be an act of conduct, and then it is not necessary to resolve parliamentary legislative procedures in this way. It could have made the government more painless without hiding behind the law. It's her right, but then it's her responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10033	Thank you very much, colleague. The next debate came from representative Biserka Perman. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10034	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Although I probably will not say anything new in my discussion, or anything that is not already heard, I still feel the need to say a few words. In light of these changes, it is clear that the provisions relating to the structure of the Administration of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks should be aligned with the new structure of the Government and I absolutely support that part of the amendments. However, when we talk about the part of the proposal for this law concerning the resolution of the Director of the Agency, it is clear that it wants to ensure the possibility of the Director's replacement under the law and that it is not specified why it can be replaced. Obviously, as in the previous practice of the new government, it was applied firstly in health care and the latest in the police, that it only wants to legalise short-term shifts, and that it is being managed and respected only by the principle of political similarity, and in order to avoid the long and above all unargued and clumsy controversy of the shifts which, as I have already said, could in any case violate the already impaired trust in the government as well as its reputation, and which, in view of the changes carried out so far, had certain ministers in their press statements which, as I have already said, have often tried to justify their actions as well as government's moves. In this way, under the cover of the law, such discussions would be avoided in the media, and probably the only real purpose of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10035	Thank you very much, colleague. Next up for discussion was President Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10036	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So this is a typical human code, and we could call it remandist because it's actually his only purpose. He'll have, cause two effects. Right now, it means changing the current director. It will also have long-term, and that is to put the new and each next director under government control in a state of absolute obedience. Because the proposed amendment can also be replaced when the government wishes to do so before the term of office expires. For a reason? There's no reason for that. No reason. It doesn't matter. Then when he eventually tries to show any kind of independence or expertise. Because the latest examples show us that expertise is a sufficient reason for man to be removed, and this is the area of action that expands in this bill of law. Because you see for the replacement of Chief of Police of Rijeka there was no need to amend any law. There is sufficient decision by the minister, and for that shift is enough fact that the man is, according to the police director, the new director, the new not-old government. A new one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10037	A fellow representative, please subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10038	Well, you're not President Shakespeare to keep warning me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10039	Of course you can get a warning, but I remind you that there is a law to be discussed about now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10040	But the director of the agency can't be replaced as chief of police administration. You need to see the law, though, so that's exactly what it's doing. It changes the law to change a man. After the replacement of the Director of HZZ, there was no need to amend the law. It was enough for a woman to do quality work, and in the opinion of not my own, but the state's auditor. But that's just enough reason for someone to be replaced. Yes, there is another additional condition that the Rijeka HDZ has requested to be replaced. But it is not possible for the director of the agency to change the law and that is why this law is proposed and therefore the amendments to the procedure for amending this law are being sent. What does it say in the explanation? In an explanation, it means the reasons why this Law is proposed. Here you have two, or on the page and a half you have one description of the state. So, when the law was passed, what the law says, who are members of the Board, everything we know. And we are one sentence talking about the purpose and it says: "The purpose of the proposed amendments is to even the term of the Director's term of office for a period of 4 years in all legal persons whose Republic of Croatia is the founder." One single sentence on the purpose of passing this law. However, this unification with all others in such a way that the future will not need any reason to change it, talking about the real reasons for the adoption of this Law. Everyone here speaks or at least representatives of some clubs, that the Law is a bit illogical because it has banks in it, although, on state property, we have another bank, Postanska. Everyone else is private, therefore, absurdly that the state is rehabilitating private banks. It may have been necessary to change the law in that direction, but there was no time for such a change to be prepared in quality, where it might have been changed. It took a quick bill to pass why, in order to replace the directors. So we didn't do any serious business, or the government didn't, because it still requires both effort and time and knowledge to make the necessary changes to the law, and it doesn't need anything to do with this. For this there is only political will, to carry out the remandist shift of the existing director. So this law as well as the one we're going to discuss now is humane and remandist and therefore should not be accepted. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10041	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. He's the first vice president of Luka Babybic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10042	A colleague, Stazic, claims that the director cannot be replaced before the law is passed. You got it. This happened in 2000 to the former director of this agency after two years of internships, after two years of office, because if it hadn't been for that, he would have been the director now, because it would have been six years. So you did it without any law. As the law does not need to be passed, in order to be replaced by Supreme Court President Ramuschak, who has not expired his term of office, but by the force of the Constitution, Article 146 has been removed as the President of the Supreme Court. What are you talking about? You've replaced over a thousand and 800 people for no reason, and if it's necessary, I've already said that in this assembly, we'll read the names when someone's set up, when someone's resolved, how long it's been since his term, and we'll see what people and how many people are concerned about. Who are you selling these stories to, Mr. Stazic?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10043	Thank you very much. Next correction of the incorrect quote, Representative Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10044	Madam Vice-President, my colleague Stazic has incorrectly stated that these are not the real reasons and that the real reasons lie in the rematch. This is completely incorrect because the rematchism in the way members of the coalition that was in power in the past term is totally unacceptable to us and we do not want to think at all the way he thinks. And the other thing, if he wanted to look for the right reasons, then he could read, colleague Stazic, State Audit Report, and he would find not one but hundreds of real reasons for the replacement of the head of this agency. So if he lost a copy of the State Audit somewhere, then I'll try to lend him a loan, and I believe the 2003 revision will give him even greater reasons. And later on in my presentation, I'm going to say something more about what I started.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10045	Thank you very much, colleague. Minister Shuker also answered the word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10046	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I've been thinking about getting back to you because the debate isn't going there, it's trying to show something else. I would just ask one question, is Mr. Mladen Šunjic an unprofessional person, that Mr. Mladen Šunjic was not doing a good job, why was Mr. Mladen Šunjic removed in 2001 and was appointed at the end of 1996? It hasn't expired in six years. I was a representative in this House, I didn't hear a single word of protection for my colleague Šunjic. Mr. Šunjic is a professional person, as well as Mr. Filipovic, that no one disputes. However, this debate here today wants to say something else. It's constantly going off topic, but it's very interesting, I'll tell you an example. As finance minister, I asked Mr. Baic, who is head of the Public Procurement Office, three times to provide me in writing with a criterion of 3 thousand and 400 and some other decision on direct procurement, on special terms, etc. last year. I didn't get that. And one day when you accidentally raise the question of, say, getting rid of the head man for public procurement, some other stories will be told again. Now I'm asking myself one question. If the minister sends a memo three times, you don't get an answer. Or if you're looking for a series of answers to what the effects of the Law on merits and unpaid claims, and the leaders don't give it, it's going to be rematch tomorrow. I wouldn't be talking about other things here, and as far as the contracts are concerned, which today could cost the state of Croatia tens of millions of euros. You know that well. Where DAB guaranteed that contract was all right before the contract was concluded. So I didn't want to talk about it at all. But I only ask one question. If it's such a concern, I'm not a gentleman today, I can say freely and fellow Filipovic, because I'm with a man in private in good relations, nor did he mention it to me at all. When the topic of the debate on the work of the DAB is then we can talk about Mr Filipovic's name and last name, however, I don't think it's correct to say it today. But I'm saying, when he's so much more insolent, why didn't anyone mention Mr. Šunjic in 2001? And also, as far as two and a half billion kunas are concerned for security savings. Yes, bonds issued by this government are due next year at 2 and a half billion kuna. So much for solving debts. And that's what's true and nobody can deny it. But I'm saying, it's not good for things to be called a different name than they are. The law is such for the simple reason that it would be logical to make their mandates available after the change of power. It is very interesting that no member of the FINA Supervisory Board, Croatia's insurance and anything else has given his mandate. Is it logical that there must be a congregation of 30.4. that the old supervisory board of Croatia does not meet at all. To change the supervisory board in accordance with the law. Doesn't that also indicate that certain things don't work the way they're supposed to? But I'm saying, this is obviously where the debate is going in some other way. So, in 2001 there was no rematch when Mr. Šunjic was removed at the end of the term, and now that no one even talks about Mr. Filipovic's shift here is about rematchism. Well, doesn't that man, every expert who does some work deserve the same attention as any other. So, in 2001, it wasn't rematchism, when people were replaced, and today it's rematchism. Very interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10047	Thank you very much. Before we move forward with the debate, one notice. In accordance with Article 207(2), The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. Let's move on with the individual debate. A colleague named Zeljko Nenadić called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10048	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. ...a great flood seems to me that we do not contribute at all to stabilising these rivers of ours with this great flood of tears for the shift of individual leaders, but definitely what the minister said someone was trying to misdirect this debate. Let me take advantage of these 10 minutes and for the sake of the public, and for our sakes, I'll introduce you to some legal regulations that define the work of the state agency. A law on the State Agency for Savings Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks of the National Journal of 94, 98, 99 and 2000 was established by the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks as a specialised financial institution that provides savings deposits in banks and savings banks and implements the process of resuscitation of banks. The founder of the agency, this is very important, is the Republic of Croatia which guarantees the Agency's obligations. The body managed by the agency is the administration that corresponds to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for its work. There is no current agency management, no longer because there is no longer a president who was Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic, and there is no longer a Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic. And definitely this law is aimed at defining the Agency's administration. How can the agency even work if there's no management? All those who came out here with the idea of not supporting the amendment and supplementing this law, are representing the opinion that the agency does not need management at this time, nor the president of the administration. And I ask you, in what way and who will then control the work of the director of the agency? There's no president of the agency at this point. If so, let's move on. Here it is imputed that the amendments and additions of the laws are only because of the change of director. Well, gentlemen, isn't that normal? If the agency uses money from the state budget, which, and the state budget we bring to the Parliament, and is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Well, isn't it perfectly normal for us in the Parliament, and at the government's proposal, we're discussing who's going to run this agency? Therefore, it is quite incorrect to impute certain rules aimed at the sole objective of this law to replace the director of the administration. It is quite clear that other members of the Board do not exist, because if you do, and you probably have in front of you what the Government has given us in the debate, it is clear that there are no more other members of the administration that have functioned. And I also don't understand why the esteemed colleague Leko said that the responsibilities of the institutions of the Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are mixed, because the administration defines the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. Well, that's just being defined by that law that you've passed with your amendments and supplements. Today, we propose that only the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget be left with these members of the Parliament. Therefore, it is quite clear that the intensity of this law is to be defined in accordance with the legal changes that occurred in the period from 2000 to today in the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a body of the state government, and to define the structure, the part-circuit and everything else so that the agency could function systematically, so that the administration could work, so that there could be a President of the Administration, which is precisely how we define these amendments and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10049	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10050	... Allegedly, this means that he has also read the Agency's Law and these amendments to the law. [[speaks later on unheard]] The agency does not have funds from the budget, but from other sources. And if it weren't for the director's shift, then it would only remain on Article 1, so that the current structure of the government would be coordinated, the formation of the government. The third thing, so it is not true, you have not read, the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget remains, as well as the chairman of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament. Well.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10051	Please don't come from the bench. Thank you very much, colleague. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10052	Madam Vice President, here's already the debate itself. It's actually about trying to target a whole debate on another track and not talking about the measure of things. So let me elaborate a little bit, too, on that part of the second track that's already been talked about here. It is obvious that members of the former government thought that God’s people had been given them, so they tried to secure themselves through certain solutions and permanent influences in areas where they acted. Is it not strange that the former government did not try to bring such an amendment to the article as is present in Article 2 and says that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can resolve the Director of the Agency before the end of time if it is appointed? Isn't it strange that it didn't suggest the moment the decision was made at the Government of the Republic of Croatia in late 2002 to transfer the entire portfolio of DABA to the Croatian Privatisation Fund? After such a decision by the government, what came next? Nothing. Nothing happened. Namely, the person, the head person DABA wanted to manage and direct the sale of DABA assets, not to do so through the Croatian Privatisation Fund, because the Privatisation Fund may have a little better control by the government and its representatives, but in DABA. Why am I saying that? Because all that came after that, after the end of 2002, and according to the audit report, we see that the catastrophic state that also points to crime-limiting actions, which you can clearly read from the audit report. So, who's crazy and who's confused at the end of 2002? – you can draw your own conclusions. But that the Director of the State Agency was asked in the County Assembly of Dubrovnik-Neretva County to answer, that he did not want to transfer the DABA portfolio to ownership of the Privatisation Fund because they do not know how to manage the property. This is at least a good cause for discussion and for the functioning of the Government, and for the functioning of the Fund, and most of all for the functioning of the Daba. But what's going on today, what happened yesterday with the DABA portfolio, specifically with the assets that are excluded from the bank's portfolio, I'm talking about Dubrovnik Bank, etc. Then we must say that something is happening that points very clearly and purely to criminal acts. The sale of the property of Dubrovnik Banka, Dubrovnik shopping centre, various Dubrovnik hotels, where the sale was made by party property so that we can read in the media today enough to say that it is necessary to clearly review any action taken by DABA, i.e. by the director of DABA, who was in charge of implementing certain decisions of DABA. I personally asked the Ministry of Finance and government members 15 days ago to immediately stop the sale that is in operation because in this period, the transition period while Mr Filipovic is still at the helm of such a type of sale by party membership. And the second thing is to be a little different from all the rest of you who've been moaning, who've been diving tears over the fact that Director DABA's mandate is shrinking from six to four years here, I suggest that DaBA's term be 10 years. I think that's a good suggestion. Why wouldn't it be 10 years, but here, of course, I believe that you won't challenge the right of the new Croatian government to place there a man who, of course, based on professional criteria fits that position. So my proposal goes that way. Come on, let's name it, let's put a man for 10 years if that's already a problem that's shortening from 6 to 4 years. So we can think that way too. But what's most important is the fact that there wasn't enough quality control over what was going on at the State Agency. First of all, I'm thinking about selling assets that will need a thorough review. And the word is, when we talk about the head person, then let's not just talk about the expertise or intricacies of individual personnel. Mr. Shuker and I reminded your shifts and your remands that preceded the appointments and appointments of these persons, but let's be clear to the Croatian public that it was one of the very high-ranking leaders of one of the political parties that made up power in the former council. So that was a political solution, your political solution. What are the consequences of this solution, you'll see, if you need texts from the media that you don't read, because you may not control them, then we'll send you texts to see what it really was about, what it was about. You must have knowledge of what happened in DABU in part of the State Audit report because it could have been read that there are major irregularities, but what is important is that there is yet to be determined what irregularities are involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10053	Thank you very much, colleague. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Zeljko Pecek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10054	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your violation of the Rules of Procedure of Article 210. You used it a little while ago when you warned Mr. Stazic that he was away from the topic. This time the speaker was seriously away from the topic, talking about criminal acts, talking about the name and last name of a man who performs his duties in DABU, which has nothing to do with the amendments to this law. I ask you in the future to give a warning and stop any speaker who speaks in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10055	Thank you very much fellow MP, I accept your criticism but your sensitivity for my permission to break Article 210 could also have appeared with some other MPs who also talked about the same topic that counterpart Matušić was now talking about. In fact, the last 10 speakers, they're all talking about shifts. My colleague, I suggest you take your word for it if you'd like to answer me. Thank you very much. We have one replica. Replica Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10056	Here, Madam President, I'm replicating a colleague who spoke about the shifts that took place in 2000. But now the shifts of people that the original HDZ government has put in place, so that's not even rematchism anymore, I don't know what they might call it, revenge. However, to remind ourselves by 2000, I think it is sad that I will now say absurdly that in this Croatian Parliament, most of the then dead people were replaced. So it has been replaced since the Parliament had the absurd powers to replace judges, so one judicial official was replaced because he had not reported to work for 5 days, and he did not report to work because he had previously been killed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10057	A colleague does not consume his right to reply to a replica. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10058	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It was expected that today, if we are already talking about DABU, we will talk about major changes to the Law on the State Agency. Because in 2004, there's no need for us to have a state agency anymore. What we all know is that we are entering a fully stable banking system time and that we have the possibility that savings banks will solve the savings on their own, and that means that the state is moving out of control of the obligation to take care of recoverys and especially to ensure savings. And it is evident that the state should only regulate the old bank obligations due to the intervention of the earlier period. And if she had to keep the savings insurance, transfer that burden to banks and push the entire banking system to disappear and that there is a private agency, a bank agency that will maintain savings and regulate, I would say the bank system's monetary obligations for everything that was done in the previous period, and what remains by the state guarantees for me would say covered debt in business banking. It's a theme that currently dominates the banking business world, in a chamber related to the banking system, it's a topic that could be complemented with the size of insurance whether it's 50 or 100 grand or some new amount and that's what we could seriously talk about. This would also solve the problem of the director of the state agency because it is evident if we transfer the obligation to the business system banking, if we hire them to take care of the cover and guarantees for the security of savings and liabilities to the state budget that at that time they will also take care of who will manage and how they will manage an institution that will no longer be a state agency. And it's obvious that this is a topic we probably won't even be able to avoid because we're basically running it in the business world and we've been discussing it for a good year. And that's why I think this proposal that came before us is and... asked if we want to realize that it's no longer a state business and it shouldn't be a state business. Keep going. The most important body for the management of the agency is, however, the administration, which is from government officials and not directors. All decisions relevant for the management shall be made at the administration and the composition of the administration shall be defined in Article 1. We therefore see that I would also say the responsibilities and rights of the director himself are far less than many regulatory bodies in many companies. We therefore see that this is also of little importance that such changes of law would simply affect changes and parliamentary power through such articles would be involved in changing and resolving people. We here are constantly transferring who, how much, is rematchism, is political change and we have nothing against it, we don't mind if the current and executive authorities and parliamentary authorities justify the replacements for the adoption of such laws are found in behaviour that was present in no ambiguous manner, either present with the coalition government then it's a beautiful message on a day related to the announcement of avi. Yes, Croatia will enter with political rematchism. It's a message from both government and executive and parliamentary. ... Like this. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] We can hear the names and there were them, and there were them. But it's something else. If that's an excuse for the current executive power and parliamentary authority, we don't mind. It's something that I really, really think this is the kind of behavior that we have where laws are made to change an unusual practice. Parliamentarians should not be involved in that part. There's no need to mix it up. I don't mind you taking my word this way. And it's part of a culture and probably a good foundation for a trip to Europe, but I'll keep talking. Don't be afraid. There's no fear. There's something else I want to say. I really want to say something else, and it's that in just a hundred days of our work here I've heard a lot of strange statements. Charges at the expense of the robbery at Dubrovačka banka, Rijeka Banka, charged but further, yes and “Vicor Lenco” but no paper. There are no documents, I look forward to them. I'm impatient. Because these speakers refer to such words and especially at the work of the State Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks. If even one part of it is correct, there's no need to change the law. The Agency's administration may relieve the Director of these particular failures. The finding of the State Audit with irregularities which do not have to be criminal offences or criminal offences may also be the cause of any administration to bear the burden of responsibility and to be replaced by the Director. So there are written documents based on which anyone can bear their responsibility. Anyone can. But there's something else. It's very difficult to leave this hall when the charges are not documented, which are not the find of the State Audit, and then, based on that, we send a message to the public. She's been sent. It was also sent to Mr Filipovic for Mr Drempetic, who managed a system of 20,000 people. The prosecution has left this hall and we will always talk about it because it is not worthy that parliamentary representatives, the people who work in this House, the members of the government are sending messages that have no coverage and that are hitting and going at people, to their families. It's not an honor to this Parliament. And that's what we have to look after. Therefore, I accept that any finding that points to the least-level failures give the right to any administration, any body that monitors and controls can take the burden of responsibility. We can politically argue whether it's changing, opportunism, rematch whatever you want. But you don't need to go charges that aren't documented. They don't have to. I therefore think that each of us has the right in this House to have an impression of the law. And to those of us sitting here who carried the burden of responsibility for setting, replacing and who was called that we replaced people and that part of the people went away and there was no reason for that. We bear the blame for it as executive authority, disagreeing that parliamentarians in this... You can still be out of position. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is the right of each of you to think so, but what is sad is that in the conduct and failures of the former government you find an excuse for your own then we are still far from the path of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10059	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have three corrections to an incorrect quote and one replica. The first to correct the incorrect allegations appeared with counterpart Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10060	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It is entirely incorrect for us from the Croatian Democratic Community today to send a message of rematchism. This is completely incorrect because today it is not discussed, today the topic of the agenda is no change, today the topic of the agenda is the amendment of the law, or the Law on Amendments. So it's completely incorrect out of context. Mr. Linic, all of what I specifically said could have been denied and corrected by incorrect allegations. You didn't do it, and probably for one reason. Because you yourself were in the administration and you share the fate of her director, Mr. Linic, and you are also answering as well as he in front of the public, and I was talking about the public in Dubrovnik-Neretva County that you should certainly have bills for your work together with Marinko Filipovic at the State Agency on the sale of property on something called a different name, that now I do not want to, I do not want to say it but you have said it. Because I didn't say it. ... You said it with, [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10061	Nice of you, I'd like you to allow the MPs who signed up to speak at the same time. The next correction to the incorrect quote by counterpart Niko Rebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10062	It is incorrect that Mr. Linic's government has consolidated the banking system. Its role in the resuscitation of the Bank of Rijeka will be entered into the annals of Croatian banking, as the Bank of Rijeka was rehabilitated to sell itself into indemnity. It's a model this country should forget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10063	Thank you very much. The next correction to the incorrect quote of House Vice President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10064	For the third time, it is said that we are bringing Parliament into shifts, and I will for the third time determine that the President of the Supreme Court of this country could not be replaced by a constitutional decision. So that's what I think is an example of the world's nonsensical world importance, and not only has the Supreme Court president changed the article of the Constitution but also the judgment council appointed by the judges in 2001 and not ended their term of office. I will repeat this every time after your claims concerning this and the other, we are not changing the law to replace the Director of the Agency but to change the law so that he is four years old, uh, in office as others. And you didn't ask for a shift, this amendment of the law, but you replaced Šunjic and he still had two years of office. And I don't know if we're sitting on our ears or what, but be assured of your every claim this will be my repeat... As well as a series of others I'm not going to point out here, there are hundreds of them. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10065	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. We have one replica. Representative Nenadić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10066	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here I couldn't help but say that coming to this tall home I expected a lot more tolerance and thinking thank God for four years after us, the rematchism went through and that optimism was based on that I felt it on my skin, because several times they sought my shift and raised several criminal charges that were all rejected in the end. I believed that the era of rematchism had passed, and I was believed to be the president of our party, Dr. Ivo Sanader now prime minister, when we won the election, got the council to say there was no rematchism and we all believed it. But we must take the reins into our own hands. However, I would only end this replica by quoting one of my friends who is a member of the SDP who said, You in the Croatian Democratic Community should allow us in the SDP to open a school in Kumrovec and take a course at that school until you learn some things. It's a beautiful hawla.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10067	Thank you, colleague. We have a reply to the replica, Captain Linic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10068	It is sad to find that we are proud of some achievements and it is evident that there is both political, rematch policy and that it is still present today. On the fifth, I'm hearing about changing the law that the Constitutional Court judge has changed. Well, it's not an executive's job that only a parliamentary authority can do if it changes anything. Therefore, it is an attempt to justify everything that is happening in Croatia today. That's what's wrong. What I talked about in my debate but many won't understand, many that I was the one who talked about the former director of the agency and raised my hand and carried the burden of responsibility as a member of the executive power. I didn't bring parliament into it. That's why you want to make amends, so it's not a problem, you can. But don't involve parliament, it's the topic we're talking about today. If we're sending messages, some burden of responsibility is borne by executive authority. Especially if he has some accuracy, in the audits, so the administration can decide. Speaking of the River Bank again. Thank you. You're sending those messages. But do you know what the greatest thing is about what you're sending lies. That's the problem with the truth of Parliament isn't good. And we'll talk about these lies. 'Cause you know if no kuna is paid for the Rijeka bank's sanctions, then we need to talk about it. That's what we need to talk about because you're sending the lie. But I expect the report from Minister Shikora, who promised it to you. Ask him.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10069	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm obliged to warn you not to discuss the agenda. Really don't argue, the 6th item of the agenda is, the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks with the final draft law. I'm asking you to really stick to the subject. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10070	Mr. Linic can't. Article 209 Mr Linic cannot replicate the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10071	He's a colleague of mine. I suggest we study the rules of procedure. Minister Shuker has come to see you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10072	Thank you very much, Mr. Linic will probably say he didn't cross me, but he's fine. This is where he apologizes. I'd like to say something you know very well that the fund that's supposed to start operating at 1.1. In 2005 for the insurance of savings deposits should go to the burden of business banks. Vio well knows at which stage you left negotiations with the business bank association. I wouldn't say that here again today I wouldn't want to open one topic, but unfortunately it was beneath each beginning. What function of the DAB in the future of the Savings Deposit Insurance Fund is it that DAB assets are not transferred to where they should be managed with state property. I forgive Mr. Linic for speaking to you so directly today, because as a representative of the government, it's not correct, but I don't think you'll mind. So I'm a drop from the government today, and I haven't mentioned it in a single word. On behalf of the Government, I tried most politely to explain the reasons for the amended law without mentioning a single word in the name of the director of the state agency. Not even mentioning a million other things. Croatia's government here wanted to impute a lot of these today. It's just a wish. I say the Government in this, we could put in this report a lot of things I said a court dispute for which you well know and for which the Croatian state will probably lose who will cost tens of millions of euros of taxpayers. So I didn't want to talk about it because I don't think it's the subject of this bill. But if we are talking about democracy if we are talking about a trip to Europe, then it is normal for certain officials to make their mandates available at the end of the election. If you can't get to the basics of elemental stuff and I'll talk about it later when we talk about Finna, as representatives of the government. Then how can you bear the responsibility for managing the million-dollar assets? Very difficult. So it's very interesting that none of the former government members were on the cover or were called by anyone like your predecessors of the Mysteries in the spring of 2000. The first three quarters of the month 2000 in this House were extremely disputable about the findings of the state-run division and were speaking very difficult words. I don't want to get into the measure of things at all, so it was very difficult to listen to what was said in relation to the other side. None of us here from the government, nor the MPs from the Parliament, use words like that. You had a chance to talk to a very high international official yesterday. I'm familiar with the content of that conversation. And I think he told you about some debts about what's going on and who's right. Well, between the billions and 600 million Croatian railways. Which have been spent in a very strange way. But what is today a bigger problem of this government than the problem of the previous government, and this government today has very big problems. So, I... talked to that clerk this afternoon. And as for the trip to Europe, Mr. Linic to us yesterday, I had a chance to be in London, and talk to the President of the EBRDA, and with almost all the technical directors. I had the honour and opportunity to be the day before that at the presentation of Croatia where the hall was full. Over 200 investors. I'm honored to speak to several European ministers. President Sanader and Foreign Minister Zuzul had the opportunity to speak to each other yesterday. None of these people at any time questioned the legitimacy and property of this government around the road to Europe. This morning, the president of the Croatian Parliament yesterday, the president of the Croatian government, did not for one moment deny the role of the former government, it is democracy. But with what right do you impute us today that we do not take Croatia to Europe. So I can't say that angle ice like this has been created in the last three months, it's only in three months raised. And God forbid it's always like that with Croatia. May God always be so with Croatia. But I'm sorry, as a representative of this government, I can't help but answer your question if you're going to go to Europe like that. That we're going to Europe. Because we proved it by our actions and our behavior. But unfortunately, some others who teach us have forgotten that Europe is very informed today. So they tried to hide some financial indicators. Financial indicators Europe knows more about than we think we know about ourselves. Why? Because these financial indicators, today you know exactly who's in charge of the lip, where and when and under what conditions. There's no story that you're going to smudge the balance below the table and put it on, it was the time of the '80s when there was no computer, and unfortunately I just found such data that wasn't recorded anywhere. They weren't registered anywhere. But I'm saying, yesterday you had a chance to talk about some items and clearly and loudly you've been told what kind of attitude these senior officials have about it. It is. So much for that. I am sorry that a democratic attempt by the government to reach the positions that belong wants to be characterized as it wishes to be characterized. Obviously, as a representative of the motionors in this second law, I'm going to have to present some things, but I'm saying that even during the last debate, I've experienced the fact that we're being told that we're threatening someone, in principle, they're threatening us because God forbid that we should be able to make some kind of finding and fact, no, that's not to be done. Shut up, put up with it, and hang up on what's wrong. Get the money we spent on the system, Dando, and that's it. But I say, on 6.4.2000, Mr Mladen Šunjic was removed, Mr Marinko Filipovic was appointed at the same cabinet session. No one on this side of the assembly has said a word to you. Well, this is the same law. So don't talk about rematchism and don't go behind the cover of rematchism playing with petty politics and talk about us not getting into Europe. We'd love to, but with Dr. Webb's signature on it. Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10073	Thank you very much. Yesterday, the Bureau of the Assembly expanded with the presidents of all parliamentary clubs, all of them, concluded and recommended that Croatian radio television be broadcast directly to the meetings of the Croatian Parliament in the period from 9.30 to 17.30. With the fact that if the Bureau holds meetings after 15.00 hours, some topics are not of particular importance to the public to inform the Croatian Ministry of Time and Directorate of the HRT and that they would then be transfers until 15.00 hours, in fact by 13.30 and that we will agree on the extended presidency in a timely manner with the Chief Directorate of the HRT and the President of the Programme Council that they will be integrated up to around 20.00 hours in full and transfer topics which are of particular importance and that there will be further reports in this case if there is a transfer by 17:30. Without any notice, they shut down the broadcast after 13:30. We'll have to discuss this in particular. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the debate. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10074	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm like, let's say it's such a relative outsider in politics. I'm listening to this debate a little bit, so I don't really know what it's all about, whether it's about changing one law as a principle change, or maybe it's really about changing it in an indirect way. I must say that I had hoped and I hope even today that those facts that stand, and I must say that there are also some previous shifts from some previous years, that such practice will cease and that at some point no matter who is in power this Assembly will be able to do two things. First of all, to clearly define what this falls into the Corps of places that the current government has the right to control according to political criteria, and that is the question of the law that has long been spoken of, the law on changing power, and I think that the adoption of this law would remove these painful debates that are certainly not pleasant to us, and even less likely to the public, perhaps it is good that television shut down the programme. Since there is no such law, it is obvious that in some way it intervenes in human policy either it wants to or at least it is such an impression that it wants to intervene through legislative mechanisms, which I think is completely unnecessary. Well, gentlemen whose names are mentioned here, I must admit that I don't know anything about their work, but if there's a part of what's been said here, I would certainly support that they are being replaced, and even if there's no such reason, if they are estimated to be part of that corruption, of the places where the current state government can dispose of in view of its political position and powers and responsibilities. That's why if this general impression were to deny that current power or not that it was two laws whose debate might actually be united because their goal is actually to create conditions for change, so to remove that impression it could be done very easily. I am not going to offer this amendment because I think that the Government can do it very simply and thus show that it is not about what this Parliament is about, so I have to say in most of the public stories rather than about some principled shifts, so it could be very easy to resolve so that if a system is established in principle, so the mandates of four years relate to the government's mandate, etc. It is said that the currently found officials in certain places continue to be in office until the expiry of the deadline that is now planned for the mandate to take place. In doing so, I do not deny the right of the Government that people who are found in these places if it is true what is spoken of and even if it is not, but if the government considers it to be part of the Corps of those places that should be controlled that they are simply replaced, and that this impression that Parliament is involved in perhaps not quite principled projects legally which do not have a clear background in terms of meaning, I will not say a clean, not a good word, in terms of motive. So here's my call to the government to perhaps, by such an amendment, remove doubts that it should be presented as a government that does not aim at changing the law to create conditions for change, but that it certainly relieves every one of them, including perhaps the gentleman that they are concerned about if they are not doing their job properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10075	Thank you. And finally the respected vice president of the House, Mr. Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10076	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I must say my sincere hope, I expected that today we will actually get a bill on the termination of the law on the insurance of savings and the resolution of banks, because in fact that law has fulfilled its purpose and purpose. And indeed, in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, this law would no longer be necessary, it should be recalled that we have passed a new Law on the National Bank, a new Law on banks, that we have passed a new Law on the provision of savings roles, etc. etc. So I think it really was to expect this kind of law to be proposed, not what we got today. Unfortunately, we have received the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Savings, the Proposer decided that, among other things, the oral address says from a democratic attempt, that, in fact, through four articles of the law, it is changing and supplementing this law and ensuring adequate objectives. In particular, I propose to the proposer to withdraw this bill, and if it does not withdraw it, I propose to my colleagues of the Croatian Parliament that we reject this proposal. And for nomotechnical reasons, for constitutional reasons and political and legal reasons. Namely, dear colleagues and colleagues, I have an objection to each article in these 4 articles, i.e. to the 3 articles, other than this final article, which speaks of the entry into force of this law, and very serious nature. First, it is not good for the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia as the legislative and representative body of the Republic of Croatia to be dragged into the business of the executive authority. Secondly, as Article 3 is inserted, this is completely questionable from the constitutional point of view. Namely, it is proposed that the Director of the Agency, appointed by the Act on Savings and Bank Rehabilitation, cease the term of office of the Director of the Agency. Such a norm is avoided first to resolve the former director of the Agency, and if a resolution is avoided, something else is avoided which is not possible under the Constitution, which is that an explanation of an individual act is given in the resolution of the Director. I'd like to remind you of article 19. The constitution which simply states clearly: "The individual work of the State Administration and bodies with public authority must be based in law, judicial control of the legality of individual acts of the administrative authorities of the public authority shall be ensured". This resolution should practically be implemented by the Government, if we put it this way, then we have put the Parliament in a position to take over the Government of the Republic of Croatia's powers and, in addition, to violate the rights of a person who is not able to do so, there is no possibility of being formally protected. Therefore, for this reason it is fully evident that the provision of Article 3 of this Law and of the constitutional aspect is questionable. I will not enter into this democratic attempt that was to be achieved with this Article 3, which was well spoken by my colleague Josipovic and presented political reasons. However, in that part I do not enter, it is a matter of the majority party's commitment, but I am afraid that, as this is proposed, it is completely inconclusive and that if a constitutional dispute takes place, especially if it is led from the point of view of the constitutional suit, if such a resolution of the current director will practically be, it will fall into the water and in such a situation it will be brought... question. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second thing that is important here is that the appointment of one of the directors of the Agency terminates the term of office of the second director of the Agency. Practically avoids the possibility of handover. And it is very serious issues and financial affairs where it is absolutely safe, there must be a handover and a handover control that should be in the final line of management to control itself. The situation also points to the fact that such a solution should not be accepted, nor should legal automation be introduced on the termination of the mandate. That is, the more Article 14 of the Law, until now, the applicable law and paragraph 2 of this Law, or Article 2 of this Law, is now envisaged, however, to reduce the term of office from 6 years to 4 years, I do not know why there is no particular reason. And it is not good to evenify the mandates especially in such institutions, when the law fulfils its purpose, in order to stop. Second, to supplement this article to the new paragraph 3 whereby the Government can resolve the Director of the Agency before the time in which it is appointed. I would like to remind you that the current article says very simply: "With the Agency's work led by the director appointed and resolved by the Government, the Director of the Agency is appointed in time of 6 years". Therefore, if the government appoints and resolves him, then it can be resolved before the six-year term, not only during the term of office. Therefore, paragraph 3 does not need to be entered at all, but if it resolves it before the deadline, then the reasons why it is resolved must be specified, otherwise it is a solution which... In accordance with Article 19 of the Treaty on the [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Constitution must be explained and must... And ultimately, it has to be based on the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, instead of that provision, it was necessary to put a few solutions or to specify legal and objective or subjective, any reasons, but based on the law on which a resolution is made before the deadline and in this way, practically, to ensure that this issue is settled in accordance with our Constitution, and to actually allow a different approach. In the case of Article 1 in addition to formal harmonisation concerning the change of the name of former Deputy Prime Minister of the Government to the Vice-President of the Government alone, as amended by the Government Act which is fully justified, Article 2(2), Article 11 of the Old Law has been adopted again. I must say that it is literally prescribed and must say that it has repeated a mistake already present in the current law. Namely, what it says there is, "The Agency's administration decides most of its members' votes." That's not true. The Agency's administration shall decide by the votes of all its members, not by a majority of the votes of all its members. Those decisions may be decided by a majority of the members. It's something else. And it has not been elaborated at all in the current law so far, unfortunately, a mistake has been made even during the last amendments and additions of the Law, which has not been taken into account and is now rewritten and downloaded. In fact, it shows that it was not technically taken care of at all what the Law would look like. The important thing was, however, this democratic, democratic attempt to create a legal basis to resolve the human question. And I think that this question is actually not so questionable and that it was far easier to amend and supplement the law if this was to be said and to state the legal reasons when and for which reason the Government can early resolve the Director of the Agency and act in such a situation, which would then not only be the legal and legitimate right of the Government and, of course, the operation of the political will of the majority party. It should, however, lead to the fact that the individual act must practically explain the solution and give them the possibility of judicial control to be carried out by those who have been resolved, if they consider that they have been unjustly resolved and that one of his legal rights has been violated. The fact that, as the law is now proposed, we are actually entering one, one area that can lead to the fact that Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are also discredited. And because of that, I think it would be very good if either this law were withdrawn or at least this urgent, urgent procedure eventually turned into a first reading until the second reading to fix this because it makes no sense for these laws to come out of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10077	Thank you very much. Is there a minister or does he feel the need to give something final? ... It's when there's a vote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10078	On behalf of the promoter, we accept the three amendments to the Committee on Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10079	Okay. I'm closing the debate. Fifth, Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, Proposal for Law No. 77. The amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee were accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 73 votes for, 20 against and 6 abstentions, this law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the State Agency was passed in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10082	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Another law that is likely to cause the same debate in rhetoric, but I would like to say that given the importance of FINA above all, how much traffic it has with the state. Due to payment traffic, the State Treasury and the transactions it performs for the Tax Administration, nearly 300 million kuna, and also its relationship with REGOS and in general its great importance. So we felt that the Law should be amended, that the Government had full insight and influence on the work of the Agency. I underline that I would not have to, again, any of these amendments to the law have nothing to do with rematchism or names, but the simple provisions of the old law are very bad. And I repeat, FINA as such is very, very important for the Croatian state. You know that in the course of pension reform and the establishment of REGOS that here in the assembly, it has been warned that certain forms and functioning of both REGOS and FINA and their relations with the existing authorities of the state administration will create one big confusion about how to submit forms and also how to use services. So today you have the case that FINA practically collects every item entered in REGOS, REGOS which has a very different purpose and function when proposing the law. However, his annual commitment, which I regrettably have to say again, is not my intention to withdraw what the cat says about the tail, but the truth that 80 million kunas were not provided in the Assembly last year and that REGOS did not pay for it, and that this will have to be paid from the budget this year. But I'm saying, since the Croatian state owns FINA. Given that certain legal regulations have also been passed and given the extent of the data with which FINA can be used by both economic operators and so do the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we believe that certain changes are necessary to bring, because speaking frankly to some members of the Supervisory Board, it is embarrassing for them to say so, it is awkward how to be set up and how to behave during this time period. So, the amendment to this FINA Act is his purpose to solve the bad solutions that were in the old law. And if you don't believe it, talk to the existing board members, and you'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10083	Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10084	Thank you very much, but I did use the opportunity for the replica, and I thank the president for giving me his word. Given that Minister Schuker stated in his previous speech that some members of the FINA Supervisory Board did not resign in a particular section. Here I am publicly resigning to the place where I was elected. I can say that objectively I thought it was some sort of regular procedure, and if it's a dispute and it's going to contribute to the withdrawal of this law, here I am publicly resigning to that place.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10085	Do the committee's rapporteurs want a word? The esteemed committee reporters don't want to. I'm opening a debate. It's a club debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honored Representative Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10086	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. I'm glad the finance minister stressed the importance of the FINA for the government, for the ministry, for the REGOS. But, Mr. Minister, nothing less is relevant to all other legal entities on the Croatian market. Nothing less. So, when we look at the role of FINA, then we can't just look at the interest of the state. We need to see what her full role is. And the full role says that the agency performs statistics, financial flows, records of authorised organisations, makes analyses, credits and other information, performs other tasks on the basis of contracts, and for the purpose of collecting, processing, etc. legal entities on the market of the Republic of Croatia. Now, in that case, if it were so accepted by the Government, then the Government would not show, on the basis of this law, on the basis of this case, what is the difference in the nature of the concept of power under the current FINA Act and what is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to amend Article 12 and you know what it proposes, Article 12 sets out the reasons for changing the management of the FINA. If a member so requests, if by his work he or she is more likely to harm the law of the other regulations relating to the work and performance of the Agency, if he causes more damage to the Agency and in other cases established by law, and I would like to stress nicely, by the statute of the Agency. I stress, with the agency's statutes. The government does not want the rule of law and the legality in its conduct, but wants to cast out a provision that gives legal certainty to FINA's leadership by law. The government wants the amendment of the law to ensure the government's right for no reason, for no reason in the law can change the management of the FINA. And now the government is still calling for the FINA to be significant for the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. So what's the point, if the government wants to make a dependent FINA? What's the point? — for other entities in the legal traffic of the Republic of Croatia. And watch the administration change according to the applicable law. Where it so requests, if it does not comply with the rules and general acts of the Agency, if it refuses to implement the decisions of the Supervisory Board of the Agency taken under their jurisdiction, if it does not carry out any more damage to the Agency, if they are frequently neglected or unwittingly carrying out their duties, which causes difficulties in carrying out the Agency's activities. That government doesn't care, that's not satisfactory for the proposer. The government doesn't want it in the law. He doesn't want to have it, because it's legal security, it's the rule of law. In advance, certain conditions and reasons and circumstances where the Agency's administration can be replaced. In advance. Full legal certainty. That's not what the government wants. And there's something else the government doesn't want. Prior to making a decision on the resolution of the members of the administration, it must be possible to make known the reasons for the resolution. Please, colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, is it possible that we would like to pass a regulation that the Government can replace the management of such a significant agency of the FINA Agency without allowing members of the current administration to plead on that shift? Well, I don't think that's really conscious of the government's intention of the Republic of Croatia. I really don't think it's a conscious intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I don't think it's a precedent for the government to go. If FINA is so important, and I agree it is, the law provides for FINA to develop commercial activities as well. To perform independently in competition with another. That's what the law says. Why do we think the government should control the market? Where the law provides for FINA to develop other commercial activities as well. I believe that such a participatory law does not allow a financial agency of the Republic of Croatia in terms of the Constitution, that the Government can make such an institution more independent. I think if the rule of law works, the Competition Protection Agency should react. You'd have to react. The law stipulates that FINA develops market-based activities, which are subject to competition. So we all know that there are different prices for payment traffic, a possibility for payment traffic to be achieved. We can look for different data. But I ask you nicely, if the purpose of the rule of law and the action of the rule of law is to leave to the government the right to, without justification, without the law of the intended reasons, change the leadership of such a significant institution, then I think this case is dangerous not to become a precedent. Because of this concept of things, I have to say that the SDP Club can't vote for this bill and we won't vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10087	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative of the Arthrial Shima.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10088	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, after these painful debates, I can raise two doubts as an introduction to this topic. First, the story of the rule of law that we've been listening to so much here tonight, so I ask as a layman, are we a precedent in the world when we've changed the basic act of a state called the Constitution twice in two months? The second question is also a constant conversation here tonight, and otherwise, it's about human-made rematchism. And does he talk so much about human beings rematching from people who are either participants or followers of human beings who cut Croatian intelligence. For the introduction so much. Second. When it comes to this point and the debate on FINI, of course it will take the same course as the previous one, so it seems to me that it's too much of a professionally argument here tonight, because it's obviously no one's interested. However, I will remind you that FINA is one of the particularly important institutions in the Croatian state, that it was in the past, that it is now and undoubtedly in the future. She passed 3 of her phases, we remember from the supervisory role of the famous SDK payment traffic and the other in the second phase of ZAP, it seems to me, what was her name and she was more in the function of then payment traffic, and here at the end now ended up in a function that would probably need to be lost again in one piece soon. We heard before she does everything and should in particular work on information technical support, the Treasury, but since the Treasury has not been established, then obviously this support is not needed, or this institution does not perform its function. The REGOS question and all other monitoring of pension databases for all together we heard and we also know from practice that also works in exceptional I would say, let's go to the insecure databases with all the weaknesses and multiple payments of all the participants that work inside. Then the issue of public, collection and processing of public statistics of particular importance for the Croatian state, I personally know very well because through my work all these years until now I have worked almost and most of all with this institution so I know very well what it looks like and for them we all have to process the data, and then the state has to pay for the services that it probably needs to get from such an institution. It's a special question at the end of the work and... The exact information that should be used for strategic decisions, we also know that, mainly, we cannot obtain that information or they are particularly unprocessed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the end of the commercial business of possible commercial transactions and so on. The autonomy that this institution should have also put into question is not due to the influence of the authorities or not the influence of the authorities but their ability to find themselves in a market situation now with banks other than the classical collection and distribution of money still being made for most of that segment. Therefore, when all this is being followed together, and we now know that there has been a change in the structure within the Government, as well as the completion of the members of the Supervisory Board within it, when we ask a logical question that it is necessary to amend it, so of course it is not the perfect bill proposal, that it can also be completed at a certain time after the changed role of the banks in this society and the same function of this institution we think that this bill should be implemented and that it must be brought no matter how anyone interpreted it. This institution also in its structure, in its system there are countless weaknesses that we have seen in this time, and if the government is responsible for this operation then let us assume that responsibility but also take over the minimum of rights within it. Therefore, we should go into it and we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10089	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Libre Honorable Representative William Herman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10090	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, here's the shortest about what caused so much reluctance, and then the apparition of the Club of Libre, but what we really want to say is something longer. So, indeed, these few articles of the bill make it clear that they want to protect the interests of the founders. And it's perfectly legitimate in our court, and we don't doubt that these interests really need to be protected. But the open question is whether it really needs to be approached then and the amendments to this law as it did. We don't think it's impossible to change administrations, we don't think that's why it's rematchism or that it's just rematchism. And at least we think it's good to do comparisons from some times, so the present times, simply if one administration needs to be replaced then it needs to be changed ok, preferably say and what's going on that's wrong, that would be good. But there's a reason, I mean for observations and thinking that actually go one completely different way. What could have been done with this bill of law to make it a point to say so in that area, which is why, at the end of the day, there is an economy, which is primarily entrepreneurship, small and medium, it's a craft, after all, it's local self-government units, and in the end it's, if it's necessary to say so, some scientific units, colleges, universities. And then to move forward in order, firstly almost pretentiously, it is said that in a more legally consistent way, the issues of the composition of the Supervisory Board and the time at which the Agency's administration is appointed to achieve a higher degree, please imagine, the clarity of the quality and quantity of the styles of the standards in question. On this one right now in those four as many articles as there are going to be so ambitiously working on quantity, quality, style, every honor. But here is what I want to talk about or try not to solve the issue of what is a fundamental function of FINE and it consists in timely supplying good accurate information and ministries and government services and for the needs of state statistics and in particular the public. I think that function is particularly important and I believe Minister Schuker will agree, therefore, with the public. And as this function of FINE is satisfied especially with the public when the information provided by FINA through the processing of company financial reports is not available to the public but rather by FINA, maybe someone thinks it's good, not only to local self-government units but also to chambers, scientific and research institutions in fact. And not only should FINA not sell it in our court but the state, the government should find opportunities. And not only should FINA not sell it in our court but the state, the government should find opportunities to finance the processing of this information and make it literally available to everyone. There are chambers that bought these data and then made them available to institutions in their area but some poorer ones can't do it. When you look at the level of development of our regions, then it's quite clear what it's all about. How can FINA sell something that is regulated by law that has to be delivered to that same FINA? These are the famous financial reports if I am not mistaken, and besides, it is about the role of FINI, FINA in meeting the needs of the public. There's the opposite, the contradictions. That's what we think we should be dealing with, first of all, with the legislator. Therefore, data are not available to the public so that, for example, an entrepreneur cannot be measured, under quotes, according to the activity indicators to which it belongs because such information is not publicly available. The recommendations of the National Council, which is not so long ago for competitiveness, particularly highlights the need to provide indicators at the level of activity as public information that would serve as the minimum level of “bench marketing” for entrepreneurs. For all those who do not listen at all, and especially for those who do not listen with interest I will translate this “bench marking”, so it is Mr. Minister as far as I understand the method of treating the given value. This is how growth can be achieved, and if it is not for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen to come through this “bench marketing” as I successfully translated, get the data and then what actually FINA is doing and we want the development of the economy, we want to develop evenly how we often phrase our regions. Here was the wish of the Libra Club with perhaps only one supplement so that it might be good to privatise certain parts of the agency, but then not at the expense of this function that I specifically talked about, the availability functions, the public functions, and then actually really meet the needs through data very specific to all of these levels that I mentioned. So if you're already doing this shift, why are you ashamed of that shift then in the second step, let the FINA come along with the Government's proposal that FINA performs through our court these important tasks. If that's the case, you'll have our support. Mr. President, thank you very much, thank you very much... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10091	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10092	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Unlike my predecessors, I believe that the applicant has made a good effort to explain the need to amend the law, and in particular it is well seen in paragraph 2 on the other hand, I quote: “The amendments and amendments to the law are proposed in a more legally consistent way to regulate the issues of the composition of the supervisory board and the time at which the Agency's administration is appointed to achieve a higher degree” underlining “the clarity, quality and quantity of the style of the legal norms in question”. I must admit that this term will distract me in the vote, so I'm going to ask the minister to explain a little bit what the quantity and quality of style of legal norms are so I can determine myself. But I would actually like to say as it is the order of the dead some good or all the best so as to say something about a law that actually happens through change. The selection or recall of the Supervisory Board is regulated, and this second part is clearly addressed to the change of administration. The change of the Supervisory Board is logical in this case because the new government wants to have control over its challenging ownership with an important function in the country's overall financial life. Instead of the Ministry of Finance and the Government calling off the old and naming new members of the administration, it is much simpler to change the law clearly. Examples of changes to the supervisory boards, we had countless administrations, such as the Croatian Privatisation Fund, and there was no need to change the law, but we found ourselves in legal norms. However, this time it seems that we have no other business but we are going to deal with the amendments to the law in Parliament in order to resolve these details that are called the change of leaders in the Financial Agency, or the FINA, for which it should be said that it has successfully transformed the former ZAP and which is also important to preserve 5 thousand jobs. The point is, which is particularly interesting about the shift of people who only a year ago in this same place in this House have been recognised for their business by all the parties clubs and then the authorities, but also by their opposition. When we showed our agreement for the results in 2002, support for efficiency, quality of governance to the State Agency, and the results of the previous year are significantly better than those we all here in the Assembly only a year ago praised. And I wonder out loud whether then I should change the administration that knew how to save jobs, places, but also how to create a new job. Should we change people who knew what this economy and this country needed? Should we change the administration that has a vision and a strategy for the development of this State Agency? I will try to remind myself of several important projects that have been going through the FINA and that have been implemented with great operational support in the last two years in our country through major reforms. First, of course, is payment traffic reform when payment traffic moved from FINA to business banks. Obviously, FINA has put its own resources, its own forces, the knowledge of its people, but also to advanced technological solutions, to bear the burden of reform. There were no days of congestion, no disturbances in the country's payment turnover and the whole process was completed without losing any kuna from the accounts of entrepreneurs or businesses. Thanks to such quality and service and experience, FINA has collected contracts on behalf of and on behalf of the banks with 39 out of 40 banks, and it is important to say also with large and medium authority including the Croatian National Bank. This continued FINA to carry out payment transactions for almost all banks and for most of their clients. In parallel to the FINA payment traffic reform was also the holder of other major reforms in the country, we all know that. We also discussed that here, pension reforms. And in this case, as in previous FINA, the knowledge of its people and its technology in collaboration with REGOS carried a huge burden of changing the pension system. Due to its simplicity and its success in implementation, Croatia's pension reform has become a form for many countries preparing for the same change. And it's not just countries from our subregion, it's also about the interest of much more developed and larger countries than our own. I would also like to see here not to forget the register of annual, financial reports that FINA has also developed as a model for the countries of Europe. With its structure and implementation, our country has taken an important step in the process of harmonising Croatia's business and legal environment with that of the European Union. I remind the register of annual, financial reports the central source of information on the performance of the business and on the financial position of legal and natural persons who are taxpayers. The design of the register has become the place for the submission of annual financial reports submitted in the forms prescribed, thereby simplifying the procedures and obtaining high quality data or records. A total of 67 annual financial reports shall be processed. I will also remind myself of the unique account register of business entities and the register of digital certifks. Which Finn developed and built into the system. I would, of course, be able to list a number of other jobs that Finna does very well and still does for the state's treasurer. For the national clinical system and a number of friends. Of course, here, a poon could be held up about a business where it was nice without a single market leader in business, for example. with cash. Today, Fina is the largest supplier of finished money from Croatian business banks, commercial houses and larger commercial chains. Just doing quality work and experience with cash Croatian Nardna bank entrusted fine operations of cash centres in the Republic of Croatia. And do you need to change the administration that created this system? Because it's in the interest of this country in this economy to have such an effective system. It seems to me that we can all agree that this administration should be given support. Just like they got in this high house a year ago. The same way it was a year ago, it is now because Fine is run by people who know their jobs. I am sure that both this government and the finance minister in Finland recognise an important resource that can be very useful in increasing the efficiency of the entire state property. Whether it's information in the judiciary or in the health system. or using Fine as infrastructure for already announced van stop shop where there were too many words and too little realization these days. It is precisely with the use of experience so far that has already been the subject of successful payment reform, the pension system, that may be of great benefit in increasing the necessary efficiency of the state administration. The appointment of a new Supervisory Board should give new momentum in the development of the modern Fine. Because she's like a year ago we all agreed on a good trip just thanks to the people who lead her. That's why HSS doesn't want to support a law like this, covering two things. In the process of changing the supervisory board and in the second phase of the shift. When this was discussed and adopted on the basis of a report on Fine's work, it would be perfectly acceptable that the power to change the administration was too. But this way when it's going through legal procedure. We don't want to give our hand to make any changes. I also see one problem in the future that will certainly happen to us just don't see how I'm going to get the profession of a state agency like Finn. What professional man will come to do his job without knowing whether his term of office is in accordance with the law or whether someone can shorten it or may fire him no matter how good he has done his job and how much he still wants to make him happy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10093	Thank you, dear colleague. We're moving on to an individual debate. First in line, dear colleague Zrebec, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10094	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. If, therefore, for the previous law on amendments and amendments to the DAB law, there was an alibi in the first article and it was about changes in the structure of the Government. We don't even have that here. The first article explains that the article provides for Article 11 of that Article, which is Article 1(2). The laws formulate in a way that achieves a higher degree of clarity and quality of legal norm style. And the amendment is to delete the word of others and add the words of the Croatian Parliament. I don't know what the clarity and quality of the legal norm is. And the style of it. There's a slightly different situation here than DAB's because he's fully in office as a state institution. So he's doing business on bank rescheduling and life insurance. Fine has a good part of her activity and commercial jobs. So it does not just work for the needs of the state and its institutions but also does commercial jobs. So if you analyse the statutes of commercial companies, companies, they all have lists when they can be resolved before the term of office of a member of the Supervisory Board or a member of the Board. And this Law has it, so in Article 12 of this Law, states several important cases when a member of the Supervisory Board may be resolved before the time of his appointment. it is said that if it requires it itself if, by its work, it is more likely to harm the law or other regulations relating to the work and activities of the Agency, if it causes greater damage to the Agency, and other cases identified by law and statutes. So this last one has almost all the statutes of companies. Because it makes sense that not all cases can be listed, so that's what we get on committees. You can't count everything. But you can count the bits. The situation is similar, and when it comes to members of the administration, it deletes the entire article 16 which fully discusses when a member of the administration can be resolved before the term of office expires. So, we don't even have the most basic alibi here why we're changing the law, it's obvious that parliament wants to move in in such a way that it also participates in certain karovic changes. I don't think that's good, but it was said here that the government as an executive body of government must take responsibility and it is its right to appoint or put in a contest the people who are going to implement the policy that this government has. Just because the proposal for members of the Supervisory Board is given by the Ministry of Finance, which is included in the Supervisory Board in parliament through one member. Therefore, such an intervention in law is unnecessary. But intervention would be needed in the sense that Mr. Shucker presented the problems that exist in his opening presentation. But as we can see for solving such issues and solving such problems in this bill, there is nothing. Of course we won't accept this law either.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10095	Thank you very much. There is a respected colleague, Ingrid Marinović Antičević. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10096	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the financial agency is indeed an attempt or a proposal and we see how the mood is to follow the legislation of a tendency to equate politics with power policy. The more the proposer tried to explain to the atom, the more he tried to do that, the more transparent and transparent that it didn't. However, in order to only be reminded of two years ago when the FINA was founded, it is necessary to say why the project was so successful and it should be acknowledged that it was working here and many years earlier to prepare a payment reform, i.e. the creation of such an institution. Of course, that's exactly why for years, almost a dozen years, the institutionalization of this kind of thing was being prepared. But there were also skeptics when FINA started working, as has already been mentioned here that most of the 5100, a hundred people will be out of work, will end up on the labour market. But it didn't happen. In fact, FINA is today really a respectable institution which has only recently been seen before the elections in this sense gave recognition and then opposition and position. From this charging activity itself, i.e. the monopoly activity carried out by FINA, it should be said that its business success is precisely that it has broken through the market by offering its products and its services and in doing so is its greatest business result and success that no one can object to. Of course, it was not possible to do so without these material resources, above all, but also the most precious things in every system, in every institution, and we hope that we should cultivate because without that, there are no serious changes and ways to Europe, and there are no lives in that Europe without human resources that should be nurtured and encouraged and rewarded, which work hard, courageously and persistently. Most of them are, or certainly, the result of these people in FINA that we're not talking about exactly those people in charge. Already in the first year, as a result of all these preparations and the continuity of work both human resources and material resources, FINA was able to successfully carry out two major reforms, two of the most important reforms that have experienced absolute success and recognition throughout Europe. Here I am going to mention the reform of the pension system, the introduction of the second pension pillar. So these are irrefutable facts. FINA, to remind ourselves, is not working since the transfer from the state budget. It earns its bread, its resources in a free game, on the market, and that is why it is of primary importance that, as much as those who live on the transfer of budgets must be domestically consciously, but precisely their position which has been given by law and given, it has simply driven these people, regardless of their ability to behave so rationally and excessively rather than interestingly, irrationally or at the expense of this or that policy. So that's exactly what might be most important. And the mere fact that more than 80% of her income she's just earning from private-owned users is just testifying to that and so on. In addition to these important registers she runs, we will only mention what was given last year to manage the annual financial reports she successfully does, the register of digital certificates, which is also a very significant and unique account register of business entities, i.e. I give that support. And what is also important that the state can just use with such good business, human potentials and resources available there, that is what remains almost intact, a reform of the entire state administration that does not only mean the acquisition of computers but is a matter of such a system that will be in the service of operationalisation and better, or more efficient work of the system so that it can carry out its legal task. But here's what the predecessors said, saying in person or in the name of certain clubs here, in the light of these changes, it's trying to say that changes are being made in order to achieve a higher degree of clarity in the quality of the quality of the subject's style and legal norms, that also means improving work. However, what seems to me in fact, it seems to me that it is indeed a bit of an insult to the legal profession of the basic principles of legality. This is just legislation, excluding the principle of legality. Because good norm means transparency and guidance of certain situations. If it is not possible to specify all these situations, then the legislator finds one bar wide standard so that he can predict all foreseeable situations, but the promoter says it in advance is not possible and therefore, in an inability to fill those gaps he offers, offers a break-in that is possible for everyone to fail independently of their work, from their merits. This is not good because this work potential, enthusiasm among certain people, will eventually be lost in all people no matter how they work or what you can do with the will of anyone, or governmental will, by not citing any reason. Of course, the government can be managed for the most concrete reasons to do so, but how to create it, why bring the government into such a position of non-transparentity that even when it removes such a person precisely because they are not taxing the reasons that it can cause suspicion that she did not act that way. Here is Article 16 says from a provision that changes, says the president of the existing law, therefore, the president, or members of the board of directors of the agency, will be able to resolve the supervisory board before the time to which they are appointed. When? If they ask for it. If they do not comply with the rules and general acts, if they refuse to implement the Agency’s supervisory board’s decisions, in so far as they cause damage to the Agency through their unconscious and unfair work, and if they are frequently neglected and unwittingly carrying out their duties, they shall have difficulties in carrying out their activities. Well, there's no unwitting business or any less grudges that can't be undermined by all this. I'd like to ask you to say what the government meant, which is a situation that cannot be undermined under this. But it is also governmental to say, that he hopes, under all these conditions, to hope if it is no longer at the government's will. It's also legal, but then it's the government's responsibility. Why are we canceling all of this to keep it just so untransparent, which we're just defending is more transparent. So the one who did not ask for it, if he had acted according to the regulations, if he had executed all the decisions of the Supervisory Board, if he had been aware of it, if he had never ignored it, or if he had always knowingly performed his duty, he could also be removed, but now we find here an excuse that other situations might be possible. So you can imagine, therefore, absolutely giving up on the principle of legality that must be the basis in every law. You can imagine in the Penal Code to say and for all other behaviors will be punished, but that cannot be predicted now. So the truth is that there's a greater degree and precision being sought there, but to undo something like this that's already meant to defend this, I don't think it's simply justified, and as much as the government has tried to show its generosity in which everyone has supported it and will continue to support it, this legal proposal unfortunately shows its selfishness.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10097	My colleagues, time is running out when it starts to blink. Resumption of the debate. My colleague Antunovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10098	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to discuss this law with two different aspects. One aspect refers to whether it is acceptable to spend both time and money in the Croatian Parliament, as well as money, in order to discuss such proposals with changes and additions such as this. It was similar to the previous one, and there are others on the agenda of this session. In fact, there is no perfect law, changes are both possible and necessary, but there should still be some technology and only in extremely urgent cases should such banal changes be made as these are contained in this law. In an emergency procedure, in some first priority. We really know that there are countless laws in Croatia to be amended because they need to be adapted to the objectives we are pursuing. However, of all these laws, this has already been said today in the debate over, when it was a debate on the previous law, really, don't mind me, but it comes to the impression that the government or the ministries that are preparing these proposals have no other problems, but now there is a provision that the president of the administration and the members of the administration can change according to the old law, so it adds or releases something from it to change it again. In order for the same thing to be done, it means, according to the old law, the government, which we accept, is what we repeated several times when we were accused of not wanting the government to take responsibility for what it is responsible for and to humanize or appoint people. Not on the contrary. This could be under the old law, the government has the right to do so, but then it really has the right and responsibility for the consequences of all the changes it decides on. And why is that why the law needs to be changed? Why are we discussing here half this afternoon? Some people think that they need to convince someone that FINA, DAB, their management presidents, supervisory boards or I don't know either, in part some of them have done their job well and met their tasks, and I think this debate is good even though we're all a little tired because of some long-term consequences. So let's not take a step back. We have been through these few, little more than decades, Croatian states of different stages. There have been different policies and staffing and everything, and now we've come to me, in a more peaceful situation in general, and I think we can afford some more standards. That we no longer have to pay tribute to such or such political changes. I think that any political authority can afford to set a little stronger criteria and standards when it frames and places people in some important places. At the time of the previous government, we were partly likely to do this, partly not, but in any case we started a process that once proved good, they were, our assessment or the solution might have been bad. In this case, again, I do not want to talk about individuals, I think that their results and actions talk enough about them and that there is no need to convince anyone here, but to talk about the principle, just before it was also mentioned, I have been thinking about that principle for a long time and that danger, mentioned by my colleague Pacek. After these procedures, after we dare to change laws to change one, two or three people, difficult, and even more difficult in the future, no matter what political power it is, we get what we need, which is the best quality of our own personnel. People with visions, creative ones, those who know the goals that politics sets, who know how to reach these goals, we're not going to make them sit in any agency, institution, institution that's under the auspices of the state. We can't motivate them because we're limited by high incomes and wages, and on the other hand we can't guarantee them that their creativity and what we're asking them to do will be real. Because tomorrow someone from politics and a word will think of you, and I don't like you because I have someone better, God forbid it's better, so it's gonna be better, and I have someone who's closer to me, and it's gonna be worse, and it's gonna happen, it's gonna be different. And I wonder why this change when what these changes would get could be done without the laws changing. And I think I've figured out what this is all about. Recently, the HDZ, likely as the ruling party, lost a lot of its popularity in an attempt to replace it without any valid argument it holds, some also people who managed state institutions. And in order not to repeat the story, because even in this old law it says that before the decision to resolve the members of the administration has to be given the opportunity to declare the reasons for the resolution, the simplest thing is to amend the law and say, you know, the law has changed, the law determines that complete supervisory committees, the new administration, there's no remand, there's no reason to explain anything, that anything is being set up, we're just going one new step, a new cycle, a changed law and a solved problem. I may be political, but in the long run, I think that this policy that follows these laws and which proposes amendments to the law to change one man, and it can be legitimate and you wouldn't be challenged. Maybe they'd criticize you, but neither would they stop you or challenge you, you could do it under the old law. And because of that, when I actually bring everything down to what's behind it all now, I've come to think of one well known, it's a little bit older already falling into the oblivion of the syntax, about the sin of structure. It was expressed in a completely different, much more difficult, much more serious and more complex context, but it refers to the same. When we do insubordination, let's change the law. Let's change the law so let's say it's because there are unresolved relationships, which is a bad law, which is REGOS, FINA, HAGENA, I don't know what's not a little Bought here, a little spada, in light of their creative sentences. I mean, who wrote this, the quality and quantity of the styles of the legal norms in question, but it's of all that it says in this explanation, which the minister has given us, which are the problems that exist, but that are not solved by this law, nor should they be dealt with by law, but by agreements and relationships with the completion of projects that have been initiated, and which obviously require that they contribute to the process, of all that nothing. We will end up feeling bitterly that both teams and people, no matter what they may have found themselves in a more favourable position at the very beginning, have done a good job, have done it very motivated, have done it in the interests of the state, have improved many processes in the state, working so that here they will now leave, and will go on the basis of the raise of hands in this Assembly of amended law. That's too bad. Unnecessarily wasted time. I hope that at least they've been talked to and that there are at least some arguments and some thinking about why all these people need to change. I know in some other cases that there was no conversation at all, and that's what's wrong. It's not bad that it changes, it's bad how it changes, and worst when it reaches for even a change of laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10099	Thank you, dear colleague Antunović. Replica, dear colleague of Judge-Thrakostane. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10100	And for a long time I tried not to replicate, but here I had to contact my dear colleague, so almost not trusting my ears that I had not been in the Croatian Assembly before, I might have been convinced as a neutral observer that there is a clear will here to say so by developing all those democratic gains and values in a society that Croatia tends to, as a matter of fact. But then I can't remember that the Constitution had changed three times, so in order to develop parliamentaryism, the County House was abolished, and then a bunch of committees and everything else were established. So, now it's crying over the change of one small law and I'm not quite as sure as my colleague says that this government of course will be the best in Croatia, if it's only about replacing the shift with a lot of worse ones, because I don't suppose it's the one that's going to cut the branch itself, and I'm sure and I'm happy that in Croatia there are people who have acquired the calling and who are aware that we're not all in money and there are young people who are choosing between a lot of better paid jobs in countries outside Croatia, so there are those who come from better paid jobs in the state administration and from enthusiasm that this Croatia is finally starting in the direction that we set it in the Croatian Democratic community. So I hope that there will be an act of action when we pass these laws under these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10101	Thank you, dear colleague. Reply to the replica of counterpart Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10102	So again, I thought of a syntagma. It's said that ideals are killed by fools. Although it has nothing to do with how the Croatian state was created. But today, the Croatian state, i.e. yesterday, received a positive opinion on entering the European Union and cannot develop its own future, its creativity is based on ideals, idealism. And if a colleague had sat in the Croatian government for at least a month, and his colleague Shucker probably knew very well, she would know that these idealists except careerists are gone. And there doesn't have to be any. And we don't have to create a state and a state administration that will work for nails, and then live off illegal jobs. But we need a well-paid little efficient, smart and creative state administration. and we don't need any calls, but we need such practice and such a system that will attract those who went back and those who are here to stay. And they won't go to work at multinational companies and big banks, we have great personnel, but we don't have them in the state administration. And after these moves, we'll have even less. You will soon see to it that those of you sitting in these benches, and I am sure that the fellow ministers sitting there, feel quite the problem. But let's do it, it's gonna be the way you want it to be. Fortunately without our support.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10103	Injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10104	And we want to get... The Rules of Procedure of Article 209(2) and not to be insulted, I am sure that there are smart people and courage.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10105	And I'm telling you colleagues that you can sit down, it's not exactly Rule 209. Paragraph 2 is not hurt, because it's not about correcting an incorrect quote, it's about the answer to the replica you had for your colleague, which is paragraphs 3 and 4. Let's move on. The word has a representative of the Proposer Minister of Finance, Mr. Shucker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So man really thinks whether it makes sense to answer and I think we should talk when we talk about something, when we already jump out of the context of what the bill is, then we should take both relevant indicators and financial and such. You know that by amending the Law on Payments, payment traffic has been collected several times. Also when you take the business of the state, I said how much REGOS owes FINA, and originally it was said that it would not be so. A bunch of laws, unfortunately, aren't all figured out. What happened was what we were all afraid of when we talked about this financial report that's been submitted to 30. 3. that, according to the Tax on Profits Act, taxpayers who pay and manage bookkeeping are thus obliged to submit to the Administration, the Tax Administration until 30. 4. So a lot of these things, but it's not the subject of today's conversation. He could also return for a moment when Mr. Dinko Zidarevic was removed. And we'll talk again, let's not come back one way or another. So, government everything that tries to do it wrong, it's like this, it's like that. Whether that fina should look one way or the other, that's the question. The second thing, with the development of charter services and the expansion of businesses, be assured that already three large business banks will soon not need to use FINA's payment services. You know that in payment traffic, we've changed the law, but physically nothing has changed. Instead of Stef and Barica, who have been ZAP officers so far, it's RABA, ZABA, PBZ or someone else, so nothing has really changed, but it's collected. What should have happened with some processes and how some state administrations should have been shut down and returned to the former position of the SDK and that would have been discussed. But the interesting thing is that we couldn't change the board of directors, so no one's talking to the administration until now, without amending this law. The second thing, what I said was logically that the members of the Supervisory Board who were acting as members of the government at the time the government changed was logical that it was logical for the new prime minister, since it was an institution owned, in fact the state, to make its mandates available, that other people who run it could take over those functions, and that didn't happen either. However, these members of the Supervisory Board of Supervisors' Boards are to control and monitor the work on behalf of the owner. Let's say it's very interesting that these members of the Supervisory Board have neither come to me as resolute minister nor anyone from the government for the past four months to agree that what we're going to do is probably some kind of report now going on business last year, so we should probably ask the owner what kind of attitude we're going to take over some things. But I have no idea how to call members of the Supervisory Board. So don't feel called in that segment, Mr. Vidovic. So that's not my intention at all. I'm just talking about an absurd situation where members of the Supervisory Board and the owner, i.e. Government. So, already another law that changes for the simple reason it's so bad... that some things are impossible to do. But the whole debate wants to be focused on a completely different course. When any changes are discussed, then we can discuss arguments like these and those. But I say for DABA and for FINA there have been changes, the government has changed people who have also worked as well, successfully run their jobs and none of them have done any parades or games like this. About the state budget coming from over 300 million kuna per year from the base... pay traffic also says what is the monopolistic position of all this together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second thing, is whether it's going to look like FINA tomorrow, how much more expensive payment traffic at this point, and that's a cash business that doesn't have as much volume anywhere as in transition countries, so in Croatia, what a expensive job it is and which at this point is going to be at the expense of expensive payment traffic on a regular basis, so these are things that are likely to be discussed today when changes of certain laws are being discussed. Why... a form that should have served to unite the forms during the pension reform of good pension reform, to combine certain forms regarding pension and health with tax data, why did this... form remain in some kind of aerospace? The question arises why he did not develop to function both states and the functions of taxpayers. So there are a lot of unspeakable issues that could be talked about today why they don't work, but it will probably be one other time when the law comes to change, it will be the topic of the talks. But in order for us to be able at all, Mr. Pecek, I've been politely sitting and listening, you've had the opportunity to say, again, I mean, I don't mind, but I'm always ready to discuss with you what you want, so I'm giving the government's views and the views of the Ministry of Finance. Under the circumstances, I had a meeting this morning with a man who was working on a pension reform and we determined that this... pattern had unfortunately remained in that position he remained in. We haven't moved a millimeter since the moment we passed the law. Now, that's the problem, not HDZ, not SDP, not Shuker, not Vidovic or anyone else, that's the problem of entrepreneurs in Croatia, and that's the problem this government has to solve if it doesn't solve this one will solve another. So I'm talking about it but we can't disagree that we're halfway there, that we should have taken that step. So, you can't say when it comes to the number of employees in the FINA that the problem of medium professional preparation has been pointed out here, in the FINE which tomorrow with certain changes will probably be a problem that will be with them. So, that's something to think about. But obviously here tonight is in the interest of showing that HDZ all targets without criteria, without anything, and those people who were in certain positions 3 or 4 years ago were incompetent and should have been removed. It can be reduced to a common denominator. But about the success and failure when you have the state budget behind you to talk, we have got on one side and on the other about the FINE pile of material, therefore you can talk about it, but on the state manger it is very nice and very simple to live.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10107	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Correction of an incorrect quote, colleague Pecek, please welcome fellow Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I would correct this assumption where the minister claims that the supervisory, change of the supervisory board has limited him to carry out these changes in the FINI he's talking about. I agree that there's probably a lot to change in Finni. However, it is you who, as minister, have the ability to amend the Financial Agency Act. However, you have limited yourself to changing the supervisory board and administration. You don't need a board of directors or a board of directors to change the law. So I urge you not to lecture us about it here in Parliament but that if you feel that the law should be amended in the way you said you would and suggest amendments to the law. If that's what you're talking about, we'll accept those changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10109	Thank you very much, dear colleague Pacek. Great, you're calling on the minister and I'm asking you not to use another plate to correct the incorrect allegations, you've expressed your opinion, you haven't corrected the incorrect allegations. It's Davorko Vidovic, my dear colleague, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10110	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. They say that in politics there is a sin of naivety, I must admit that I have committed this sin by reading the draft agenda of this session, which said that today we will discuss the FINA Act and holding that we are about to discuss what you are now, Mr. Minister, in part of the principles. I must say, that naiveness came from the fact that after 5 months, the new government will finally produce something that we will be able to recognize as too much concept and in which we will also be able to see what and how with this too important institution in Croatia we have had fortunately. Unfortunately, it wasn't like that, so I've really experienced disappointment, and you can see that it's actually about one law that I have to say that it's a little bit offensive, and I think it's for whoever is proposing it because I'm really not repeating all the arguments that have been made here, and I don't see any serious reason for it. Obviously, there has been a misunderstanding in communication and in who should have given the initiative for the interview but as well as my colleague Pankretic and I, as a member of the Supervisory Board, would not have kept that place for one hour without holding it off that it might not be too responsible to resign without speaking to those who are now officially representing the owner, it is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If that's what it takes and if that's why this law is being passed by me in public, here I am orally resigning here at this hour on the board of directors. I don't see any reason for all of this to happen this way. I think that here it is verbally supported by what FINA has done in more debates so far, and even in what Mr. Minister said, I would like to just once again as a sign of why we are doing this to remind ourselves that in the past year FINA achieved a 26% increase in total income by as much as 210%, index is 210, net profit 211, that it is a company that made its income and earned its profits 80% on the market and that it is a company that has an unusually large and important role for the Republic of Croatia itself for our country. In addition to what has been done so far, and this is what I would say about the pension reform project as the most demanding, most extensive event in the Croatian economy in this century, I have to say to the outsiders' enquiries that you have managed to make such a good reform that the fundamental reason lies in the fact that we had FINA and that we recognized it as a partner of the state that can do this large and important job. But also the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the truth she passed has signed a Treaty on the Information of the Authority of the State Administration, the concreteisation should take place with the integrated support of the State Treasury and the Tax Administration system. It was before, we were ahead of a project of information, health care and hospital information systems. We've run as FINA, I'm still speaking as a member of the Supervisory Board, for the information of the justice system. We also covered this program by informing city administrations where with its experience and knowledge it can be an integral of the system. So a whole series of projects without fina standing. They are also defined in the mission of FINA and in the vision of its development in the coming years, so the question arises and then why change someone who has achieved extraordinary results now and who has a vision for even better results in the future, and perhaps to respond perhaps one of the Ministers' instructions even though I am dissatisfied with the fact that last year has not been realised by the end of the term of last government contract between REGOS and FINA and why FINA would not charge from the state no matter what the state owns, if I understood it well then. Why don't she charge her services. The state is one of her clients as she's not asking, and the INA is owned by the state, so we're not looking for oil to give us or gas, but maybe I misunderstood something. Another thing that, uh, is being put up as a criminal administration, management, this one, FINA's is the problem with LS patterns. But the problem is ours, I'm talking about our former government that we didn't know how to do another decisive step when it comes to the LS pattern or your government that doesn't do it now. Well, that's not what fina's gonna make up her mind. There we are, as a government, responsible because the Ministry of Finance in that last meeting couldn't agree, and obviously it can't now because there are some interesting lobbies, to me never quite clear, within the tax system that prevented it from happening. So once again, I can't quite see the other meaning of adopting this Act except for changing people we haven't found any concrete crime in the results of so far's business or in what they're offering as a vision of the development of such an agency and I wonder, did someone here say that my company would go to change the horse that is so successful in that race as it is clearly leading this, the leadership of this company? I wouldn't, so it could be the HDZ that runs it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10111	Thank you very much, dear fellow Vidovic. Before we move to replicas, allow one piece of information. Dear colleagues and colleagues tomorrow, of course, we'll continue the debate in the morning at 9:30 with point 10. Proposal for a law on the national test centre of education, and then we will return to point 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal for a Law to move to point 9. Proposal for a law prohibiting the use, the creation of supplies, production and transfer of anti-walking mines and their destruction. And of course point 11. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the recognition of the Croatian Parliament “Golden coat of arms” with the Final Proposal of the Law, and then all other points for which we will have met the conditions while we work the afternoon. Now a replica of a respected colleague, Stazic, at the presentation of counterpart Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10112	Speaking of good results from work, FINA's colleague Vidovic wonders and then why change those who did well? Well, that's the problem. He worked well and chief of the Rijeka Police Department. Well, that's reason enough to change him because he had excellent grades of his superiors. Apropos assumed from this new government, but the very fact that it has good grades, the very fact that it worked well clearly is his basic sin and that is obviously the basic reason, the only reason to change it. Mr. Vidovic, in your portfolio, also worked as the director of the Croatian Employment Service, which you found in that vault. HDZ set it up before you came. You left her in that vault. Why? Well, because she was obviously an expert. Because she was doing good. And for the entire term of office of Racan's government, she stayed to do the job. She's gone now. Why? Well, obviously because she was doing well. Well, that's what the audit told her she was doing well. The only one who said she wasn't doing well was a local HDZ man from Rijeka, so he asked to be replaced. So she's been replaced. This is therefore the problem of both this Law and that of the previous and overall operation of this Government since it was set up. Which replaces for no reason quality people who do not have much in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10113	Answer to the replica Mr. Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10114	Well, here's what I'm going to try to do. I'm going to try to answer my colleagues on the line. I'd try to answer them like this, maybe unsaved for my colleagues on this side. Do you think that there was no requirement to say Mrs. Sanja Crnkovic-Pozaic was replaced by those who were as a crown argument for her replacement instructions that it was the person who worked for 6 years or 7 sat with Škegro in the room, that HDZ was a woman and that as such she was not the head of the Employment Office. That the same Sanja Crnković-Pozaic...... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10115	Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10116	In which, where they were held, what was called, a protective... Homeland war, something, some kind of joy, this, HDZ, but I didn't let it, I didn't let it, I didn't let a professional change, and I didn't care about her political beliefs and what political meetings she was going to. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I witnessed this to a dear colleague and ministers whom I handed over to the Ministry. 15 of my associates, five directors of the office, eight assistants, secretary of the ministry, none of them were members of the SDP. It's a respected colleague, the only one, the only true truth when it comes to rematch and it was necessary to replace people just because they weren't, or because they were in HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10117	Thank you, dear colleague Vidovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague, Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10118	It's not a colleague of Marasovic, it's a colleague of Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10119	Excuse me, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10120	Nothing. I respect that. Mr. President, you and your colleague Vidovic and your colleague, Stazic, have injured the Rules of Procedure, and this is Article 213, 214 because there are some things that have nothing to do with the agenda at all and you have allowed in some way to harass all the other MPs by bringing up things that are not at all here and questioning in some way the integrity of this House and the dignity of you as chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10121	Thank you very much for your warning, dear colleague, but we have not hurt Article 213 and 214. As far as your relationship with the Rules of Procedure is concerned, you better study the Rules of Procedure and you'll see that it exists in our Rules of Procedure of Replics and Replies Institute. The colleagues are in replicas, have the opportunity to present their opinion on the subject under discussion at the basic exhibition, respond to this replica. Therefore, respected colleagues debated, continued debate, and polemized each other. Why are they from the same party it's a little unusual, but it happens too. I know, but you're not a very well-respected colleague. The word is made by a representative of the motionary Minister of Finance, Mr. Schucker. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10122	I'm sorry that there was no colleague present here, Bishop, I'm sure this play at the cult level would have been evaluated. However, this was a lagging conversation between the employer and the spokesman. I think I'm really sorry that you were first of all co-worker Vidovic for having a debate like this. And for bringing yourself into this situation to discuss it in this way. Because this is the government's proposal. According to so many, it can be debated in one way or another. I would also ask if the late Joža Knezic was not an expert, so in 2000 you removed him from the Croatian customs office of the sick. Likewise. We want to list the many people from customs from various different institutions that have been moved simply. It's a feather move. And you lecture us today don't follow the law don't hold this. As for the forms, you didn't do what you were supposed to do. You'll get a report from the state treasury when you're already crying for language. So you'll see how you took care of the state, taxpayers' money. And also when I said 300 million, that Mr. Vidovic was not controversial we are a country of market economy that we have even written in our Constitution. DAD every service should be paid, let's just see how much a cash transaction cost while it was ZAPA and how much a cash transaction costs now when it's Finna. So let's advance those results then let's talk about traffic and profit. But I'd like to say something, perhaps that money that ends up in such a very good business and in no moment as head of government I didn't want to comment on the way Finn works. At the moment I told you you know well you were at the head of a peace reform I even emphasized good. So what, but you also know because you talked to these people from the World Bank that wasn't good. And that's the basic problem that you weren't able to make that decisive step. That's the basic problem. And today the problem with the World Bank is precisely because you were unable to take that decisive step. And now one elemental question is why the rego pays 80 million Finns a year. Why? Wasn't there something within Finna that could be established without using the data and not paying? Why set up an institution that spends 80 million dollars a year on taxpayers. This must be secured in the state budget, I repeat, unfortunately, that from last year's budget has not been paid. But Morait will be paid for them this year from the budget, So there's work to be done. There's work to be done. But why argue with only this especially on this play I think it's funny. Because every government has the right to propose its own law. Talking about some shifts, some sort of rematchism, I don't think it's a bit appropriate, and it's not a bit good. And I'm saying, you're really going to see when the aces report on the state of the Treasury, what order it was in state finances. Then you'll see how wrong you are about many things. That's what I'm telling you. That's what I'm telling you. It cannot be treated that way with taxpayers' money. But you keep making things go the way they go, but I'm saying don't think everything's beautiful and everything works. You have many things that you fellow ministers didn't know about, just like today's colleagues in this government don't know about. But then don't say it wasn't like this, it wasn't like that. Give the right as no one has given you the right to agree with the team you'll be working with and give this government the right to do it. You can't say that someone won't be better, but, Mr. Representative, that you offered your resignation this generously three months ago, that should be pointed out as an example. Offer to resign at the time when a law is passed that will definitely replace the Supervisory Board because you have forgiven three months of irresponsible behavior. You did not find it appropriate to inform the owner of the situation in the society where you were appointed by the same owner to oversee it. You were supposed to do it as a member of the Supervisory Board. So let's not say we're not like this. I'm talking to you. Please. No, I don't. Why me you. I love you. I don't think you should represent the owner. I think someone else should represent him. That's my opinion. And mine is a democratic right. So, I'm saying, unfortunately, I think Mom's doing too much serious work. To deal with amateur games. I don't know when there's going to be a first review of the amateur theatre, but I'll definitely recommend a fellow Bishop to take you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10123	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. We have the last debater in a ten-minute debate. Dear fellow Stazic, go ahead. Give up? Thank you very much. Does the minister want to take the closing word? No, I don't. Minister, please choose to show yourself about the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10124	Thank you very much. Due to the no-technical structure of the amendment of the Legislative Committee, the applicant accepts them. Thank you very much for the discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10125	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. My colleagues and colleagues interrupt the session, resume tomorrow at 9.30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10126	Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Financial Agency of the Proposed Law No. 76. The amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee were accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 76 votes for, 21 against and 4 abstentions, amendments and additions to this law have been adopted by the government along with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10364	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The Securities Commission of the Republic of Croatia has been operating since October 1996. The Commission is a legal person with public authority who independently and independently performs business within the framework of the work cycle and the competence of certain Securities Market Act. For his work he corresponds to the Croatian Parliament. The Commission's tasks are an effective regulation and supervision of the securities market in the Republic of Croatia. It should be pointed out that in 2003, the Commission received 1476 items of which 609 administrative cases and 867 irregular cases, and held a total of 51 sessions. During that period, the Commission adopted 7 sublegislative acts of the Regulation, thus fulfilling its obligation to adopt sublegislative acts in accordance with the Law. In cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of European Integration during 2003, the Commission actively participated in responding to the European Union questionnaires. Monitoring the issue of securities in 2003. In the framework of the Securities Monitoring Section, operations related to the issue of securities are carried out to take over of stock companies and other business related to the issue of opinions, as well as the collection of systematization and analysis of the information that stakeholders are obliged to provide to the Commission by means of legal provisions. In 2003, the Securities Monitoring Department received 606 items of which 66 administrative cases and 540 irregular items. Among other things, it should be noted that the total value of stock emissions in 2003 amounted to more than one billion kuna, less than in 2002. The regulation of the securities market. The Securities Market Regulatory Department received a total of 561 items, of which 444 administrative and 117 irregular. Several reasons for such a significant number of administrative cases during the 2003 reporting period. It is subject to the approval of the publication of data from the shortened prospectus in the inclusion of shares of public limited companies in the census of public shareholders. Since the legal deadline for listing was until 25 July 2003. Many cases are based on the obligation of brokerage companies to comply with the provisions of the Securities Market Act as well as the obligation of banks which, in accordance with the Securities Market Act, are to be issued by the Commission. Doing surveillance work. The HDZ representative's club is of the opinion that the Securities Commission correctly carried out surveillance tasks during that reporting period, resulting from the following data. In 2003, the supervisory department received a total of 65 administrative and 23 non-administrative cases. A total of 5 criminal charges containing 8 criminal acts and 52 criminal offences containing 122 criminal acts were filed. The Commission shall base Article 12(5) on the provisions of Article 12. The Securities Market Act adopted 6 solutions requiring the removal of established illegalities and irregularities and the taking of activities to eliminate them. A total of 103 items have been closed. In the period from 1.1. 2003 to 31. 12. In 2003, on the basis of Commission applications, courts in the Republic of Croatia made a total of 117 decisions, rulings and resolutions. The misdemeanors brought a total of 93 resolutions, and high misdemeanor courts of 12 resolutions in which total fines of 1 million 164 thousand 612 kuna were imposed for legal persons, and 259 thousand 362 kuna for responsible and natural persons, making up a total of 1 million 423 thousand 975 kuna. Municipal courts and municipal state attorneys and county courts made a total of 12 decisions, verdicts and resolutions. In connection with the monitoring of the capital markets, the following information is also needed, the activities of the Zagreb Stock Exchange and the Varazdin Stock Exchange. As for the Zagreb Stock Exchange at the end of 2003, 39 authorised companies are members. Krobeks was the official index of the stock market in 2003 and grew from 1.1%, so from 1172.60 to 1185.10 points. Trade in 2003 on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. In 2003, the stock market was actively traded with 143 securities, which is by 116.7% higher than in 2002. The total turnover in 2003 reached 12 thousand 331 million kuna, a 109% increase compared to total turnover in 2002, when it was 5 thousand 889 million kuna. Share turnover was 1 thousand 495 million kuna or 27.6% more than in the previous year. In 2003, bond trading between institutional investors was mainly pension funds amounted to 9 000 58 million kuna, a regular turnover of bonds on the stock market of 612 million kuna. As far as the Varazdin Stock Exchange is concerned, 31 authorised companies, which have the Statute of a member of the Varazdin Stock Exchange, were concluded with the end of 2003. The Vin Index closed down in 2003 with 615.94 points. The lowest was over the year 483,3 points, while the highest was 635.82 points. The total turnover in 2003 was 704 million kuna, down by 48.36% compared to the previous year. Of the total 388 with 156 securities were actively traded. Evaluating that in 2003, the Securities Commission fulfilled its basic tasks to regulate and oversee the securities market in the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club accepts a report on the Commission's work for 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10365	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. We have a work report for 2003. The Securities Commission of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 9. The Securities Market Act was submitted by the Securities Commission to that Report. You received the material by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. You received a report from these committees at the session. The government delivered an opinion. I ask Mr Miljenko Ficour, President of the Commission to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10366	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. In accordance with the Securities Market Act, the Commission is obliged to report annually to the Parliament both on its work and on the capital market in the Republic of Croatia. Here, the Commission provided a comprehensive report with a summary of this Report and a number of tables that depict almost total developments in the capital market last year. Since this is the new assembly of the Croatian Parliament, allow only two, three words about the Commission. The Commission, I would like to point out, is the institution established by this Assembly, which is responsible for the Croatian Parliament for its work and here we are, with this Report and we are submitting ourselves to you and putting ourselves on the line. For information, we must say that on 1 January of last year, the Croatian Parliament resolved a member of the Commission on his personal request, so that the Commission acted for 11 months in, as I say, a defiled composition with only 4 members, since the 5th member was appointed only in October 2003 and took office on 1 December 2003. However, regardless, we think that the Commission has successfully done its job and we can say that the work of the Commission and its 22 employees is best witnessed by a thousand 476 cases received during 2003, of which 609 administrative cases and 867 irregular cases. And to say that, here, at last week's session of the Commission, we had a report from all our departments. We don't have any unsolved cases since 2003. The reason for this abundant work, the many demands that came to the Commission, is that in mid-2002, a new Capital Market Act was passed and following the provisions of that Act, all market capital participants had to comply with the provisions of that new Act, and thus the Commission itself adopted 10 regulations which were mandatory to adopt in accordance with the provisions of that Act. For those who may not know, I would like to point out that on 31 December 2003, the Commission's permission to carry out securities operations had 30 brokerage companies, 14 banks, 114 brokers, 46 investment advisers, and in the Republic of Croatia, with 31.12, 37 open investment funds and 4 closed investment funds worked. These are all participants who are not allowed to carry out their business without the Commission’s permission, which is which the Commission oversees in their later work. That is why, because of such a large number of participants in my opinion, the Commission’s regulatory function is one of the most important functions of the Commission and its supervisory function. The Commission has collected information from different sources on the activities of the participants of the capital market, with the aim of monitoring the compliance of the law by all those participants, and in cases where there is a fundamental suspicion of breach of the law or violation of the rights of the participants of the capital market, the Commission shall exercise supervision and take appropriate legal measures. In the course of the past year, the Commission has also submitted 5 criminal charges, 52 infringements in which 118 infringements were sublinated, in the course of the surveillance procedure carried out in a number of participants. And based on criminal and criminal charges filed, let's say that during 2003 the courts imposed fines amounting to a million 423 thousand kuna, which is the income of course of the state budget. I would also like to point out here that in the middle of last year, the Commission took advantage of its control over the participants and took away the license to do business with the brokerage house "Nacional" in Zagreb and its broker, since they damaged their investors for a large amount of 25 million kuna, and the case was also taken over by the Ministry of the Interior. So we have to say that this is a start, too, because the Commission didn't have that kind of power under the old law. The first such case we had in December 2002 when the Commission also took a permit from one of the houses in Split and its broker because of the similar case. Over the past year, the Commission also took away a broker’s license, excluded it and deleted it from the broker’s register because it did not take care of their interests in certain transactions for its clients, or even used itself. This is why we wanted to send a message to the market because many do not know that the Commission has a direct insight into everyday events both in Zagreb and in the Varazdin Stock Exchange. And that, here, right in the supervisory office and surveillance, we're going to give the greatest attention in the future to avoid these deviant behaviors. However, over the past year there have been nice developments in the capital market and we can say that one of the most significant and largest newspapers is a new quotation, a quotation of public shareholders on both markets because, according to the provisions of the new Securities Market Act, all companies that had a share capital above 30 million kuna, over 10 shareholders had to be included in this stock exchange. And here, during 2003, the Commission adopted 246 solutions on the authorisation of data publication because these companies are obliged to place on the stock market, as I said earlier, to give their blood count, i.e. on the balance sheet, the income account and to receive and to give a full report on both their current business and planned business, so this is very important for future investors or potential investors. In addition, what we want to point out about this quotation is the fact that no matter what it is a mandatory quotation, that we call it, that it encouraged some societies such as Vortex-Varaždin to immediately fit into the first quotation instead of the quotation of public stock companies, which probably would not have done without this provision, and among other things, here is our largest insurance house "Croatia Insurance" also after being included in the census of public stock companies at the end of the last year. And just in the Commission's view, we believe that participants and participants in these quotations, not only in JDD but in Bull in the first quotation, but also in all others, in these quotations they must also look at the position on the stock market not only but also at the advantages, i.e. through the new issue of shares, they must collect their new capital, of course through the issue of long-term bonds, and through the issue of other securities and short-term capital. Here, we can read now in the press that some of our biggest houses are right here, on the "low show" about the issue of new planned bond emissions, and the Commission also approved 63 million new bonds with a maturity of 7 years to our largest pharmaceutical home. So, for this, here are our biggest houses we want other participants to go to the capital market. Finally, regarding the financing of the Commission, I must also say that the Commission is from the state budget, because it is a budgetary user, during 2003, of 4 million kuna, which we think is certainly the minimum amount for one regulatory and supervisory institution, at least when viewed by the number of employees. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10367	I thank Mr. President of the Commission. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. A club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community. Dear Representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go. Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10369	Dear Mr. President, President of the Commission, colleagues and colleagues. The Securities Commission is a key factor in the capital market. and as the president of the committee here today has said, we here are not talking today in Parliament just about how many cases this commission has had, but we are actually talking about the capital market, and what is happening in Croatia. And this capital market, as you know, is crucial, because without it there is no entrepreneurship, no new products, no entrepreneurship initiatives, no growth in export competitiveness, etc. Here, in part, it comes from the report, and from some other data that I will suggest that, fortunately in the last few years on the capital market in Croatia, we have made significant progress, but that this capital market is still very underdeveloped compared to what Croatia needs. The financial potential, therefore, and the potential of the capital market make up many components. Among other financial results, the economy, banks and others. For example, in Croatia in 99 years, the total consolidated balance of losses and profits in Croatia was negative 2.5 billion were greater losses than profits. Afterwards, the economy's profitability and profitability increase, and already in 2002 the economy has achieved more than 3 billion profits consolidated. And last year, it was also a case. Thus, the economy has strengthened investment and development over the past 3, 4 years. Furthermore, public companies as an important factor in the money and capital market also suffered about 1 billion losses in the 99th year. Last year, public companies had 2.3 billion profits and profits. These are major differences, where improving business and business and public enterprises makes great progress. If public companies had not earned profit, but lost as in 99, it would have sucked out money from the capital market and thus denied the potential for development. Furthermore, the kuna savings of citizens in the Republic of Croatia has been increased since 99, when it carried 38 billion kuna to 94 billion kuna in 2003. So the kuna savings of citizens in 3.5 years has increased four times and is close to 100 billion kuna. This is a significant potential in both the capital market and the money market. Furthermore, some companies, some institutions in the capital market that the state has also improved work. For example, Croatia's insurance. It was from the border of business in the 1990s until 99th when in fact there were a dozen million profits that came today to achieve stable over 100 million benefits for Croatia's insurance. The Croatian Post Bank had over 700 million missed, failed investments in 99. These were investments and business types of Kutla and others who, along with political support through the postal bank, drew significant capital. Afterwards, the bank has been consolidated for all 700 million drawn and spent in a frenzy and is now making over 100 million profits a year stable. This all has a significant impact on the capital market. Take Croatia's lottery that was at the border of doing even renaissance until today has developed the most modern system of online businesses and has achieved 4 times the results thanks to 20 times the increase in resources for people with disabilities, technical culture, Olympic committee, sports organisations for the Athens Olympics, etc. Unfortunately, however, all these people from these institutions who have so improved the work between the other and the lottery and the postal bank and others have already been replaced. It's not a problem, colleagues and colleagues when people who don't have results change. However, these people have contributed to the development of these institutions to the extent that this is important for the capital market and are being replaced. You have legitimately legal and to change them, however, the question is how good it is. If the coalition made mistakes and replaced some people who were not supposed to be reduced because they were professional, it is no excuse or argument that you are now replacing people who are also professional. If Bush is wrong, it won't be an excuse for his successor to make a mistake, too. Well, good. I just want to say how important trust is for three hundred capitals. Trust in people and institutions that have led to change. The main situation in the capital market is now significantly better and allows the country, among other things, to be more in debt on the domestic market. To restructure debt, to launch development programmes, to take other actions in the area of development. Unfortunately, these actions do not have enough, there are not enough initiatives in the development of the economy and the only thing that the government has so far and day at a meeting in Rijeka has is the new 200 business zones. We had 23 business zones in '99. Last year we ended up with 114 and 70 in preparation. So, with almost 180 business zones already. And now the government is going with another 200 zones as something that will solve the problem of the Croatian economy which I don't think it will without actually real solutions missing and the capital market allows stronger moves. And allow this information. How much progress the Croatian economy has made over the past 4 years is being read from both its next and its financial potential. In the 99th year on the market on our two stock exchanges was 996 million kuna, kuna. Last year he was 14 times higher. Almost over 13 billion kunas. And then, the assets of financial institutions in the Republic of Croatia. It grew from 104 billion to 232 billion in the building for four years. There have been significant new institutions such as pension funds with nearly 6 billion and many other investment funds, housing savings and the like. So what was the 99th one hundred last year in 2003 was 230 as a financial potential for development in the Croatian state. Of course, for the financial market, the role of the state is also very important. The activity of the state contributed to the development of the financial market because 9 contigations, or 9 bond emissions, were made from 99 to 2003. The interest fell from 9 to 6%. Now let me show you, let me tell you how important the role of the state is in the capital market and by stating three mistakes made in the last three weeks or months by the Government, Parliament, so the State, the capital market ministries that are bad for the capital market. As the State can do well on the capital market, it can very easily do bad on the capital market. The Croatian government made a major error in the capital market three weeks ago. It went with the largest debt of half a billion euros this year, which partially pays back the old debt but creates a significant new debt. At the most unfavourable moment, she went with the task three weeks ago when on screens of all European financiers and the world were headlines on which McShain warned that Croatia would not get an avis. If we had appeared on the capital market three weeks later when we received the avis and when we were definitely candidates, the official candidates for the European Union, the difference in the result that we would have achieved in that huge debt of half a billion would have been measured in millions of euros. With a bad move three weeks ago, the government caused millions of euros in damages to Croatia by debt made with a beginner's mistake. Those who pay for it should be judged will also judge Croatia's citizens. The second example of the state's misbehaving on the capital market is this. On the capital market, it is important for the state to ensure transparency, control, to simply ensure trust. The state has two development funds, for development and for employment, which appear on the capital market as development institutions. Those two funds are important. They have pulled over about 300 new projects in the last year and a half, and they have co-operated with European funds and co-operation has started, etc. So what happens now? Instead of building trust in those funds, we cut it down. In fact, each of these funds has five board members each. In the past term, we have insisted that opposition people also be on these boards, to control how the government shares money from these funds. For example, Mr. Schucker and others were on these committees, these funds that share the state's money for the opposition to control what's going on and that we have credibility in front of the public, constitutional ones that do the right thing. We're here a few weeks ago, and you voted with the HDZ majority to make all 10 board members the two funds that appear on the capital market the HDZ. Without any opposition man, this certainly does not contribute to strengthening confidence in how money is shared, transparency and the rest. Third example of the State or the Ministry's error. It is now important to have prepared projects for the European capital market and for European funds prepared at the moment. I don't know what's been done in the last four months, but we from cohesion funds could if we have prepared projects to be able to be able at the end of the year but to withdraw certain funds. Where are your projects? I don't know. From the other two funds, from the Structural and Social Funds there we have nothing to look for, but on the top of these funds and the official use of European Union funds, we can make a lot of use of resources in bilateral relations between countries. And I am now testifying that in the last year, a successful relationship has been developed between Italian, Austrian and some other state institutions and ours in financing certain programmes. But Mr. Shuker replaced the people who did it and they found themselves on the street without having a chance to tell anyone what they did, where they stopped with that job with the Italians and the others and everything went back to zero. That's not how gentlemen work on the capital market, and it's just not good for the state. And finally to conclude with two conclusions. The SDP will support this commission report. The Commission has worked responsibly and successfully, and there is not much to be added. Secondly, the government should agree to implement a programme to speed up the development of the capital market that exists, and lately I do not see anything being done, but should also give bonds of large state-owned enterprises and companies from HEP, HT, INA and others on the stock market and some of those shares to domestic investors. Secondly, the state should support the corporate and municipal securities market when it comes to bonds. But you working in cities and municipalities know that actually your activity is completely blocked in terms of the ability to use the potential of capital in the capital market. The municipalities and cities, in particular the cities of the Law on the implementation of the budget for this year, are completely blocked in their ability to borrow no matter how good their programmes are, and there is also a problem in the securitisation of these activities so that all these lower levels cannot appear on the capital market. Obviously, we still have a lot of work to do in the capital market, but the conditions for much to be done with that market are to go faster and further exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10370	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10371	It is incorrect that the state was in debt with EUR 500 million three weeks later in order to save or thus damage the state by hundreds of millions of euros. That someone else said that here in this assembly and something else like that, but the former minister was nothing. And, still, as far as the capital market is concerned, you've made great use of it for the last four years because you've managed to keep the state in charge of 14 and a half billion kuna. Thank you very much. Dollars, dollar pardons. [[Aggression: Dollars.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10372	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative of the Mato Church. Please state which provision of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10373	209 and 214 because Mr. Jarnjak did not correct what I was talking about and abused the institution of correction of the Rules of Procedure. I never said that the state has damaged all of us for hundreds of millions of euros, but for millions of euros, check it out. That's a big difference. And that, yes, that's definitely how I stand behind it. That's a big difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10374	Honored representative Luka Roic on behalf of the HSS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10375	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the Securities Committee, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the basis of the Commission's obligation to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament once a year we have the opportunity to discuss the report of the Securities Commission, and I will remain on the very same report in my presentation because we are talking about the role of the capital market and everything that is related to this topic is certainly very grateful, but we do have a report in front of us by the Securities Commission. The Securities Commission of the Republic of Croatia submitted a comprehensive report to the Croatian Parliament for 2003, a summary of that report, as well as a number of tables with almost all data relating to the events in the capital market in the Republic of Croatia during that period. This report, in our opinion, provides a transparent picture of the work of the Commission as well as the situation on the securities market in the Republic of Croatia. Although the commission, we heard that, only the last month of the reporting period worked in full composition and for 11 months, months with only 4 members we at HSS are satisfied with the work and based on the presented report. The report shows that the commission has done a huge job since it is related to its work, received and solved several hundred cases and thus both administrative and irregular cases. It is particularly important for her role in supervision, her supervisory role and the report is evident that the commission also had significant activity on this plan. It is evident that the Commission collects information from different sources on the activities of the participants in the capital market with the aim of supervision, respect for the Law by participants, brokerage companies, institutional and other investors, stock exchanges, central depository agencies, securities issuers, securities banks, investment funds and companies in the management of investment funds. In cases where there is a reasonable suspicion of breach of the law or violation of the rights of participants in the capital market, the Commission shall exercise supervision and take appropriate legal measures. Where it determines the existence of the elements of a criminal or criminal offence, the Commission shall submit appropriate applications, request for the initiation of an infringement procedure by a local, competent criminal court or criminal application to a local competent State attorney. In this way, the Commission's primary objectives are achieved, investor protection, public and capital markets interest, and the strengthening of confidence in the capital market, as well as ensuring general prevention in the prevention of market participants' illegal behaviour. During the reporting period, the Commission submitted a total of 5 criminal applications and 52 infringements, on the basis of controls carried out by different participants in the capital market. On the basis of submissions and criminal and criminal charges, the courts imposed a fine of a million 423 thousand 975 kuna in the reporting period, representing as we know the revenue of the State budget. And here regarding the financing of the commission we would like to point out that the Commission for its operations in the reporting period from the State budget has only been identified for us a total of 4 million 768 thousand 432 kuna. What we want to particularly praise is the fact that after the adoption of the new Securities Market Act and after staffing, the Commission has started to carry out stronger, direct supervision of all participants in the capital market, but also of the transactions on the market. So at the beginning of last year, thanks to the Commission's new law powers, for the first time since its founding, it has seized the authority to work a brokerage house and its broker. Also the owner of that brokerage house due to the misuse of funds collected from, by the employers and their use to settle their own obligations of the brokerage house, which is not only a violation of the laws but also the greatest violation of brokerage principles, since the means of the employer should be sacred to brokers. Unfortunately, a similar case occurred again in June but in that case, the commission reacted promotionally and also took away the work permit, and deleted it from the records of brokerage houses and took away its work permit from its broker. However, with the supervisory function of the committees as far as we know it is developing and cooperating with participants in the capital market in a cycle as best functioning of that market to avoid the behaviour of participants in a way contrary to the legal and sublegal regulations for reasons of their ambiguity or different interpretation by individual participants. Thus, the Commission shall put the rules which are authorised to adopt as legal acts before applying itself on all the website of the collection of proposals, objections and suggestions by all participants on the market of the appetizers. In accordance with the powers laid down in the Securities Market Act, the Commission has also begun to give its opinions on the implementation of that law and to publish it on its websites in order to make it available to all interested entities. We want to in some way and here to commend the Commission's overall activity, related to the census of public stock companies, as is known to be a new quotation on our stock exchanges. Where they've listed their shares to this day almost all of our big t-r-r-r-r-houses. And some of them, thanks to this billing obligation, immediately chose the first quotation to include their shares on the stock exchange. And we at HSS support the Commission's opinion that the societies in this quotation should not be obliged, but also the advantages. Publishers who listed their shares as public stock companies should take advantage of the possibility to raise capital from public issuing of new shares’ emissions, i.e. to collect the necessary crafts resources to issue other types of securities. We also agree with the Commission's opinion that even though the prescribed obligation has contributed to the development and progress of the capital market of the Republic of Croatia, in particular by publishing the information from the prospectus that allows all investment investors to see the data of the largest Croatian stock companies. the quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial reports of public stock companies are available to all interested through a public information library conducted by the Commission itself. And finally, I'd like to point out that we've analyzed the securities commission's report in detail, us at the HSS Club. Let us state and accept this report for Croatian securities for 2003. And we note that for those modest financial amounts they received from the state budget, they have done a great job and it is necessary to consider whether more support from the state budget for the Commission's work is needed in order to make it a better job in the coming work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10376	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honourable representative Plasimir Mršić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10377	President-in-Office of the Parliament, President-in-Office of the Commission. It should be said that indeed, the securities commission did a good job last year. Because of its efficiency, it has ensured that the capital market in Croatia is safe, certainly primarily for participants in the capital market and above all for investors. I'm going to spend a few words here on not only the Commission's report but maybe the part that really refers to the capital market because I think there's some lessons that can be learned from that. But also that a possible commission could do something with its influence to improve that capital market. First of all, when we talk about the capital market, it should put that capital market in some proportions with other markets. So when we compare that, then we have to say that the Zagreb stock market is both volume and market capitalisation is the smallest stock exchange in Central Europe. Unfortunately, when we add up all the markets in Central Europe, then market capitalisation and volume of trade on all markets in Central Europe is less than, for example, the market capitalisation of the Vienna Stock Exchange and the Dublin Stock Exchange. So it is obvious that the Croatian capital market is regulated, that there are all instruments and all institutions that can influence and need and regulate that market. However, trading volumes are low and there are a small number of participants in the capital market. What's disappointing is that we only have two stock companies in the first quotation of one of the two stock exchanges and that of Pliva and Podravka. I think we've had a total of five in history, but we haven't even had a first quotation yet. Some because they went bankrupt and some because the number of shares or shares fell below 25%, so they are no longer in the first quotation. So for one country it is certainly insufficient that only two shares are in the first quotation of one of the two stock exchanges. So on the second stock exchange, we don't have a single stock that's in the highest quotation. In any event, it should be affected that the largest number of stock companies decide to enter and request inclusion in the first quotation. Not because it means make-up or whatever. This means, above all, a higher degree of transparency in the business of these companies. As a result, it is good that the law provides for certain sized companies to be listed as public shareholders. Because in such a way, at least the first step has been taken to increase the transparency of the business of these stock companies. If anything, they had to do some kind of little prospectus they had to sign up to the Securities Commission. The Securities Commission has seen it. Finally, they will have to report to both the Commission and the stock exchange on their business reports. In this way, it will increase the safety of investors in the shares of these companies. The capital market is very much affected by the state itself, so I don't want to talk here about the political aspect, but I want to talk about the financial aspect. On the issue of volume and market capitalisation of the companies in the quotation. And this is because the state should finally decide to trade its porphyle solely and exclusively through regulated markets through the Zagreb Stock Exchange. I think it's absolutely inadmissible for the state to decide to trade shares, for example, of Podravka past the stock market on which that stock is listed. And in completely different ways than how all the other shareholders can trade those shares. Because the state is just one of Podravka's shareholders. This happened last year when a part of those shares was determined to end up auctioning rights on the Varazdin market, where those buyers of those shares would come to those dioceses much more favourable than could otherwise be on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. And today we are witnessing the conduct of a public controversy and the headlines of the daily newspaper will be given and who will take over 28% of the stake in Podravka. This creates great uncertainty for both existing shareholders of Podravka and employees of workers and local communities. If the shares of Podravka were determined only to be traded through the Zagreb Stock Exchange, the matter would be much clearer and much more transparent and would be protected primarily by shareholders. Because it would be achieved, they would have the opportunity to compete on equal terms to buy those shares, i.e. to buy them, both existing shareholders and those who want to become shareholders, and on the other hand right on the market, on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, a fair value would also be achieved, fair price for "Podravkine" shares. If that is not the case, then it can certainly be the case that the "Podravka" shares are underestimated, so by a deal or agreement between the Government and a potential buyer, there is a price that would not at that time correspond to the real market value of the Podravka shares, which would firstly be a damaged state because it would not have to earn the amount that would have been earned by trading, selling it on the stock market and, on the other hand, all other shareholders would have been brought into an unfair position because the other shareholders had to do so through the Zagreb Stock Exchange. So I appeal that the Securities Commission is affecting the state that those shares in the country's portfolio in the quotation of one of the two stock exchanges are definitely sold on those markets. After all, you cannot buy a package today, for example, a larger package of Podravkin's shares because it is a smaller offer, a small offer is on the Zagreb Stock Exchange and one that would be able to buy 28% of the state currently has, would certainly be of great advantage to all other shareholders, which then does not contribute to what would definitely require shareholders' equality and the safety of investments in individual stock companies. I think it is necessary, in addition to the Securities Commission, to give and recognise other participants above all the Zagreb Stock Exchange and the Varazdin Stock Exchange, because despite these small volumes, despite therefore small market capitalisation or succeeding from year to year, the Varazdin Stock Exchange has also made this effort to reach the stock market status and to connect to some other stock exchanges in the region, which will certainly increase the supply of shares and other papers on its stock exchange, thus allowing it to invest in other securities, but also to invest investors from the region in Croatian securities. What would be equally good to think about, and that is to support and encourage the issue of substate bonds, because unfortunately we do not yet have a single municipal bond that has been issued, I think it will soon be two such bonds in Croatia but it is far too small for the size of our country and for those needs we have and should certainly encourage new forms of financing of projects primarily in the municipal sphere and public content such as public private partnership building forms, which, for example, Austria in the last four or five years has reduced the public debt of the country annually 2%. So there are instruments and what other than, therefore, control and supervision of the capital market I think that certainly the Commission might influence the state above all that the state sells its portfolio on the market and enable or encourage the same way that local communities also finance their projects not by loans but by other forms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10378	Replica, a respected representative of Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10379	Speaking of regulated markets and the possibility for the state to sell its portfolio on the stock market, the colleague only spoke about the sale on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. It seems to me that there is a great need, and especially if we look at this report that government bonds, which is one particular segment, are still being sold on the regulated market of the Varazdin Stock Exchange, because this is also how the government's money is being spent on costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10380	Thank you very much. The word was requested by the chairman of the commission, Mr Miljenko Fitzor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10381	Thank you, Mr. President. If I may say so, along with this supplement that the esteemed representative said, which I wanted to say is that we have two stock exchanges and that we must not mention the name of one stock market because indeed on one and another stock market they can trade on an equal footing. The second only Mr. Mršić here is to inform, even though I said it in my presentation. On our stock exchanges are listed four shares, stock companies in the first quotation, and that is on the Zagreb Stock Exchange three shares: "Plive", "Podravka" and "Croatia Insurance" what we said was placed at the end of last year, and on the Varteksa Stock Exchange of a Varazdin society, what we said was included last year. That's it. And by the way, I'm taking the opportunity not to come back, to thank all the representatives' clubs for the support they've given the commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10382	Dear Mršić, correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10383	I can agree with you, but the report says that in the first quotation two editions of regular shares of the following publishers are "Piva" and "Poravka" so it's possible that exactly what you're saying is true, but on page 8 it says otherwise, right? And let me just say that I was talking about trading in Podravka shares on the stock market where Podravka is in the first quotation, respecting certainly that there is a Varazdin Stock Exchange and I mentioned that the Varazdin Stock Exchange has made, or the Varazdin market has made a great effort by turning from the OTC market into a stock exchange.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10384	Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10385	Mr. President, President of the Commission, colleagues and colleagues. Maybe just a few words on one subject that's in the commission's report, which is closed investment funds. Very short, one page, and a very difficult topic. A very difficult topic because we have to remind ourselves of something, which is that one part of the privatisation process went through privatisation investment funds as a way to try to resolve their obligations to the victims of the Homeland War, to the defenders, and essentially through the modern financial way and the financial market we try to enable these people to solve part of their problems financially, part of their lost assets and all that they lost in the Homeland War. Unfortunately, many of the problems in these investment funds that have occurred since 2000 have been the reason why we have changed the law over the past four years and have believed that these stocks may be strengthened on the financial market and that shareholders will benefit more economically from doing business with those shares. Unfortunately, I would say that this report has made it very clear that over the past two years, five of the largest privatisation and investment funds, based on legal changes in the previous term, have simply turned into closed investment funds, have ceased to operate. Maybe it speaks best of the quality of the commission's work. The Commission, which can enter into business, which can control, which is primarily set up to take care of shareholders, controlled the work of the management company is a dangerous body for those who avoid working for the benefit of shareholders and that may be the reason that five of the largest closed investment funds that drag their past out of privatisation turned into holding companies and escaped from certain controls. I mean, it's a phenomenon, it's a process that maybe we should separate apart from this finding, but it's obvious that it's running from a financial market that's under special care and control and concern for shareholders shows that the quality of work in the Commission is getting stronger and bigger and that maybe some other simple institutions have to deal with the privatisation process, because unfortunately, the Commission's right simply stopped the changes and ways of organising former privatisation and investment funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10386	Thank you. Does the President of the Commission want Mr Ficur? Not anymore. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10387	Thank you very much. I thank the prosecutor for the children, Mrs Matijević-Vrsajko. Here you go, so you can comment later after the debate. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the Human Rights and Rights Board of National Minorities, Ms. Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-21-0.u10388	Work report for 2003 of the Commission on securities of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work for 2003 of the Commission on securities of the Republic of Croatia is accepted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I think there was one vote held back or against, see who was against it again. Restraint? That's right. 100 votes for 1 abstention has been reached.
