ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3848	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament... Interrupt on tape. I am pleased to present the 2004 budget, especially with this year's budget being made in extremely difficult circumstances and in an extremely short time, but as you have the opportunity to see in the materials, despite the short deadlines, the budget clearly reflects the government's goals and is beginning to realise unequivocally the election promises of the Croatian Democratic Community and our coalition partners. This year's budget was planned for €84.9 billion. The revenues were planned for 79.5 billion, which is a 6.4% increase compared to last year. The expenditure growth relative to last year is 5.7%, which means that with less than 1, and something compared to income growth. Budget with a2004. The year thus shows the Croatian government's determination to implement a sustainable fiscal and overall economic policy that supports the country's macroeconomic stability and our path towards European integration. The government budget deficit on the consolidated central state is therefore lower than the deficit achieved last year. The consolidated central government deficit planned for 4.5% of budget deficits at 2.7%. In this place, I would like to point out that the conditions in which this budget was created and made were neither a little light nor an easy one. In addition to the expected economic conditions marked by the slowdown in economic growth during the second half of 2003. The 2004 budget is also limited by the unexpected high financial commitments inherited from 2003, as well as by the decisions of the former government whose financial consequences had to be respected in the 2004 budget. In this place, it should be said that this year, 16.7 billion kuna comes in, and 5 billion interest. Which makes everything a little less than 22 billion kuna, which is the largest tranche for payment in the last, I don't know now how much but surely in the last 6.7 years. The external debt reached a record $23.7 billion in late 2004 and is particularly concerned by its growth dynamics in 2003. In that year alone, last year alone, external debt has increased by 8.2 billion US dollars, which is a dynamic that this government cannot, cannot and will not continue. Public sector debt along with guarantees amounted to more than 100 billion kuna in late 2003 or slightly more than 52% of gross domestic product, which puts Croatia in a position to take care of the existence of so-called. the master criteria which determine the share of public debt in the gross domestic product at 60%. Despite the extremely high growth of external debt, there is a clear slowdown in economic activity and that is what concerns. So despite this dramatic growth in external debt in 2003 if it is in the first half of 2003, and according to indicators, gross domestic product grew on average by 5%, all economic indicators show that in the second half of 2003, we can expect GDP growth only slightly above 3.5%. Which is likely to reduce, not likely but certainly, reduce the general annual average of gross domestic product growth last year. Therefore, in 2004, the 2004 budget, ladies and gentlemen, will be achieved in terms of slower growth of gross domestic product than unfortunately has been the case in recent years, I say unfortunately because we would all like to see more growth. I am convinced, however, that the budget that is ahead of you creates assumptions for the conversion of existing unfavourable trends. However, when economic constraints are accompanied by restrictions created by financial commitments and decisions of the former government of more than 6 billion kuna, a clear picture of the force of the total restrictions that existed in the draft budget is obtained. Therefore, we had to respect the limits mentioned but did not give up on meeting our goals. Five equally important targets for the 2004 budget are significant. First, the country's already stressed support for macroeconomic stability through the reduction of the state budget deficit and the consolidation of public finances. Moreover, the reduction of deficits will generally ensure lower pressure on the growth of interest rates, i.e. capital prices benefiting all economic operators as this will slow the trend in the growth of interest rates since the beginning of 2003. And if we just achieve this goal and he's very handsome, I think we're going to do a lot. The 2004 budget provides for funds for the payment of the due debts, for example in health care of 530 million kuna, court disputes of around 100 million kuna, payment of the HATS obligation, so the Croatian highways of 1 billion kuna, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development of around 300 million kuna as regards reconstruction and the same as the payment of other inherited liabilities. Second economic support can be provided in several ways, the 2004 budget creates conditions for fiscal and financial responsible implementation of significant infrastructure projects. In 2004, investment in Croatian highways of 5.6 billion kuna is planned. In Croatian roads of billions of 827 million kuna and in Croatian waters of 1 billion and 600 million kuna. In addition, the budget plans to finance the reconstruction and refugee return programmes related to the return of refugees with about a billion kuna. For capital investments and support to Croatian railways, 1 billion kuna 574 billion were allocated. For the development of the island and their better connection with land 838 million kuna. In addition to financing large infrastructure projects, financial conditions are also created for greater support to small and medium-sized enterprises while 440 million kunas are intended for support in shipbuilding. The government's strategic economic objective is to encourage economic growth on the principles of domestic production and exports and to encourage foreign direct investment in production. Foreign direct investment in production will directly stimulate healthy economic growth based on production rather than only consumption. In addition, foreign direct investment will boost employment and trade exports, which is crucial for reducing trade deficits and better living standards for Croatian citizens. And as the third thing that we had in mind in this budget we are still aware of is still high, not yet but really high unemployment rates and after the summer of the re-occupied growth of the number of unemployed. So the fight against unemployment is one of the priorities of this government and of the priorities. The 2004 budget therefore supports employment programmes. Fourthly, the social responsibility of the budget is seen in increased pension allocations, for defenders, for birth, as well as the opening of new programmes for socially endangered categories. According to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Programme, the Budget encourages demographic renewal and makes the first step in combating demographics, it is a difficult word of devastation, but we are somewhere near, Croatian society. After 1 July this year, the level of maternity benefits will increase and return to the level that existed in 2000. A total of 2 billion 576 million kunas will be allocated for these purposes in the 2004 Budget. 1.6 for child's allowance plus 1.04 for maternity benefits. The fairer treatment of Croatian defenders and the return of their dignity is a debt that we all have for this population of Croatian society. To those who didn't feel sorry for themselves when we needed it the most. Despite the limited possibilities of the Budget in this budget, but the following budgets recognise the rights of Croatian defenders who give them according to the rules. In addition to pension expenditure and permanent rights of defenders, which is about 3.2 billion kuna in the budget, we will also provide funds to repay the 1997 debt. So from the previous government of 149 million kuna. Finally, the budget clearly supports the authorities of the state administration responsible for strengthening Croatia's ability to get closer to the European Union. The European Integration Ministry is the ministry with the largest relative increase in the budget, with an increase of 41.8% compared to last year. Aware of the importance of political and economic diplomacy, the foreign ministry will have 423 million kuna at its disposal, a significant increase compared to last year. Increasing the efficiency of the legal and legislative system is one of the most significant elements of Croatia's successful integration into European integration. It is therefore also ensured that the 273 million kuna resources available to the Ministry of Justice have been raised properly. Areas of particular national concern still, we will also propose in the new law that these areas are called areas of special state interest because we feel it is not right to call them areas of special state concern because the word care suggests some compassion for someone. I think these areas do not deserve any compassion but our respect for Croatia's defences in these areas. So I think that in the new law that we're going to propose, we're going to suggest that they be called areas of special state interest. Already in this budget, before the new law is passed, I would like to say that we have supported these areas with 60 million kuna, in a way that we have taken back the income tax into the state budget in the total amount of funds for all local self-government units in these areas. So for municipalities and cities, they've increased 60 million kunas. For science, the increase is from 2 billion 660 million, which was last year to 2 billion 915 million kuna, an increase of 9.1%. We are all aware that without science there is no complete and all kinds of social development and probably we would all like that, if it were bigger and bigger towards science. It amounts to 9.1% and pays a kind of percentage that we wish it couldn't be bigger because we pay the price of all the situations in Croatia. I am obliged to say the same that there was a public debate that the Parliament was reduced budget. Yes, the Parliament’s budget was reduced not because of what some wrote, as some reported because the Assembly had resolved some of the expenditures, so that someone might say excessively. No, the fact is that last year's elections were and the election cost for this year was reduced by the parliament's budget. So the thing is very logical and very simple. And I would also like to say that we have not overlooked the process of joining the ministries in which Croatian waters have entered the foundation of the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Economy and Forestry in this merger process, but we are still not seeing it, but we are still working on it, and we want to start through Croatian waters seriously with the irrigation project, to start making project documentation because it seems to me that along with the highways, along with this infrastructure, along with this large historical infrastructure project which I am glad to depolite it all together because it is important for Croatia that we also tackle ourselves with other major projects, and that it is an irritability that Croatia, which is lying on the water, has problems with drought as it was last year, and that countries that have no water as great water as Israel solve such problems. I also want to say that since I came back late from Mostar last night, I know that the Parliament expressed his condolences yesterday at the beginning. I was supposed to have my first meeting with the late President Trajkovski yesterday morning, and while I was waiting, we had this terrible news. I use the occasion since I was and should have been his first companion yesterday to express my condolences to the Macedonian people, to the government, to the Parliament on this great tragedy. Yesterday I visited both the university and the hospital in Mostar and we are in the Budget transparently, I think it is something that has started and passed the government, we are increasing this increase so it goes in terms of supporting the Croatian University of Mostar to 20 million kuna which is much more than the last government gave or could give the same for health institutions, for the hospital, which she started to invest the past government we continue, so we want to support the hospital and medical college construction in Mostar. All together this year we have foreseen for some other health institutions around 30 million kuna, as well as 15 to 20 million kuna depending on projects that will still arrive from Bosnia and Herzegovina. The reality of the assumptions on which it rests, and thus I will conclude the 2004 budget, creates assumptions for quality fiscal and economic policy in the coming years. At the same time, the government's ability to implement, despite significant financial constraints, the promises and guarantees we have made to Croatian citizens demonstrate the responsibility and consistency and credibility of the Croatian Democratic Community and its coalition partners, so this government. and therefore the 2004 budget creates ladies and gentlemen, realistic assumptions that Croatia is starting. I believe that soon, when we discuss the 2005 budget, we will be able to come up with much better optimistic figures before the Croatian Parliament. Here again I want to return to some objections which have appeared both in the Parliament and in the public during the last days when we debated at the Government and put into the Parliament's budget. I welcome the fact that the last government did not make a budget and I think it should become a democratic standard at the time of the elections is not a budget, but is left to one other government to bring it. This government is 60 days on duty and I think we managed to form a state budget in a very short time, formulating the state budget in the way that best fits at the moment that Croatia is in place. I repeat once again, the largest tranche of the debt will come this year. We've been aware of that and we've been through this government, and these are terrible restrictions. However, we are holding down the deficit on consolidated central states 4.5%, which we think is a gross domestic product which I think is important, an important feature of this budget and the determination of this government to tackle public finances. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3849	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3850	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister. I am correcting the allegations Mr. Prime Minister made in his presentation, which are more than what is written in the text of the state budget that we have here. It's an incorrect assumption that unfavorable trends are being stopped. I think there are an increase in my unfavourable trends, not a decrease in one country's credit activity. An increase, not a reduction in gross social product. And here you're planning a reduction from 4.3 to 3.2. A positive trend is to reduce inflation rates, not to increase inflation rates, as stated in the draft budget. A positive trend is a reduction in interest, not an increase in interest. Mr. Prime Minister also says incorrectly that this budget is beginning to be realised, it is beginning to realise the pre-election promises of the day in the guaranteed card. Unfortunately, in the very text of the budget..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3851	My colleague, please conclude for the sake of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3852	Let me just say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3853	For the sake of time, please, hold on, there's a correction that lasts one minute. That's what you'll say when the time comes. Correction takes one minute, I have to do it that way. Thank you very much. Also correcting the incorrect allegations, respected representative Radimir Cacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3854	Thank you very much. Quite concrete. Mr. Prime Minister mentioned the debt that will be charged to the HBOR 330 million, and did not mention at the same time the 235 million that will be spent this year from the same loan, therefore, is an incorrect allegation. He mentioned a billion and 121 million kunas that will be paid, or already have, I hope this year for the works that have been done in the last months. Of course it hasn't been transferred long, it's a regular payment. As for the area of special state concern, just a small note, that's the name the HDZ government gave, but I agree this is a better name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3855	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Government, Mr. Shucker, the Minister of Finance to explain the additional draft budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3856	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So I think that, after these corrections, we should still go with the explanation of this budget to the economic environment in which this budget was made. Because certain macroeconomic indicators and plans projected in this budget cannot be shaken out of their sleeves, and they are not due to the good will or desire of those who create and do the budget, because if that were the case, then that budget would probably look quite different. But there is something that no policy, no political option can challenge, which is official data for both the State Statistics Institute and the Croatian National Bank. And they point out that unfortunately, for the first time since the first half of 1999, economic activity in Croatia is a decline, and that is what made certain budget projections the way they are. Thus, industrial production has been a slowdown since July 2003, and during November 2003, and during January 2004, where, at the annual level of January 2004, January 2003, there is a deficit of 1.5% and November 2003, in November 2004, by 0.4%. The retail trade also recorded a significant slowdown during 2003, for example in 2002 growth was 13.2%, and in last year trade growth was at a low rate of 5%. It should also be noted that, after October 1999, for the first time in last year, a negative annual growth rate in retail trade was recorded. Construction is like a very important industrial branch and a branch that is experiencing any direct support from the state budget and out-of- budget funds, there is also a slowdown in the second half of 2003. So, all significant economic activity indicators showed a slowdown in late November 2003, while the last time Croatia had a negative growth trend, it was the first half of 1999, while the fourth quarter of 1999 recorded the reverse process since the fourth quarter of 2003, so the fourth quarter of 1999 recorded the upcoming process and the fourth quarter of 2004 unfortunately negative. The effects of slowing down economic activities and, according to all economic legality, are passed on in 2004 and therefore logical projection of the growth of the gross domestic product of 3.2%, reflecting the real dynamics of the economic movements of last year rather than the desire of the current government. Because to go as desired, then probably this growth would be quite different but some things, some economic legality can't be erased and can't be so easily skipped. Also, their positive and negative effect cannot be erased or ignored in a very short period of time. Real GDP projection of 3.2% for 2004 is credible and a clear signal to all investors that Croatia will record economic growth in its real potential in 2004. I especially stress this with real opportunities because of some of the things I will explain in the course of my presentation, and that the government has very realistic expectations in this respect, which is ultimately positively assessed both by international financial circles and by the majority of the local professional public. The external debt and balance of payments something that is not irrelevant, something that is not negligiblely important, because both external debt and balance of payments have had a significant impact on the growth of gross domestic product because both current balance payments and external debt have in recent years affected both the growth of gross domestic product and its reduction, so you will see when the largest growth of gross domestic product was then you will see that the current balance payments recorded the largest deficit of 8.5%. Therefore, it is not possible to see a separate growth of the external debt and balance of payments from the growth of the gross domestic product. Thus, the slowdown in economic activity for 2004 was passed by the circumstances of a worrying high external debt, which reached 23.6 billion in late 2003. Therefore, the external debt increased by 8.2 billion during 2003, which could be said to have an impact on the decline in the dollar relative to the euro is $2.5 billion with a worrying level of external debt Croatia is also in the high area of the balance of payments deficit and is expected to account for around 6.4 gross domestic product. In these circumstances, Croatia is in potential danger of the existence of a high fiscal deficit and a high balance of payments deficit. When we talk about the movement of these two deficits compared to the gross domestic product, we must point out that faster economic growth has always been linked to the increase in external debt and balance of payments that I have already said in the introductory section and this can also be looked at according to this chart, so you will see that this red is a payment deficit and this line is the growth of the gross domestic product. The slowdown of economic activities should also be used for over-restructuring and restructuring which will allow economic growth in the coming years not only to be driven from personal and state spending, and this is one of the basic objectives which is intended to be achieved with this budget. Encouraging economic growth, the government will foster economic growth on the principles of fostering domestic export production and fostering foreign direct investment in production. I would like to stress this by encouraging direct foreign investment in production because they have multiple meanings. On the one hand, the Croatian state does not have to be in debt, it does not have to increase how the external so-called domestic debt for production incentives. So there are funds that will create new jobs and thus increase gross domestic product and all but the cost of the state virtually nothing except to create certain preconditions for, unfortunately, not in Croatia at this time, because, unfortunately, when you look at direct investments in Croatia for the past five years, they are practically stagnating or having very little differences at the international level. Inflation Croatia marked ten years of low inflation and macroeconomic stability in October last year as evidence of the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia to Croatian citizens and evidence of credibility in the world that has confirmed with all international financial institutions. The Croatian government will remain consistent with that long-defined goal and continue an economic policy that will retain macroeconomic stability for one of its primary objectives. This budget fully meets the long-term objective of showing through the reduction of the state budget deficit in 2004. In 2004, we also expect price increases of 2.4% as well as projections of the Croatian National Bank. So comparable data. Budgetary expenditure The increase in social contributions in this budget satisfies all key social groups, pensioners, births, defenders in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programmes guaranteeing greater social sensitivity, this budget encourages demographic recovery and fairer treatment of Croatian defenders. What I would finally like to say to Mr. Prime Minister Dr. Sanader has touched on this, but certain corrections to incorrect allegations show that certain things have to be clarified and these are delegated commitments from 2004. In principle, he would say something before I start talking about the delegated commitments, which is that this government and the Ministry of Finance will try to keep the budget within the framework of all positions as this Croatian Parliament brings it because no one has the right to change what the high home has brought. No one can say the Minister of Finance is right but that the state's interest is different. What is this state interest that is contrary to what is required by the laws of this high-ranking Parliament... So one of the main priorities of this country is the introduction of order into state finances. [[Applause]] So many mentioned Croatian highways. You today also have in the proposal for a debate with the draft budget a proposal for financial plans, revenues and expenditure of extra-financial funds. So last year, the same parliament adopted a budget for 2003 of the Croatian highways' revenue and expenditure at 5.4 billion. And now what's most important. On 3 November, the Supervisory Board adopted an amendment to the income and expenditure plan and later submitted documents to the Government from the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development positive opinions on the construction plan rather than the income and expenditure plan. So the Supervisory Board has changed the income and expenditure plan adopted by this House. The government received material on a change in the construction plan where the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development gave a positive opinion, the finance ministry gave a negative opinion and the government adopted the plan. Therefore, it is not about the works carried out in the 10th, 11th and 12th months and contractual obligations will be paid in 2004 because if these works were within 5.4 billion that this high home was adopted then Croatia's highways would have transferred the surplus revenue for that part of the outstanding work and would have paid for it in the following year. However, since Croatia's roads are also at the deficit of the general state, that they have a limited possibility of borrowing the Croatian road has therefore had to reduce their revenue and expenditure plan for a billion kuna this year because they would break through as a deficit of the planned Croatian highways of 1.8% so the planned deficit of the Croatian state is 4.5% and that is something that is inadmissible. So why do these transferred obligations matter? For one reason, if they had been prescribed under the Budget Law and other legal regulations in 2003, then the 2003 deficit would not have looked as it appeared. Also, the 2004 deficit without these commitments burdening the 2004 budget would not be 4.5%, let the remaining expenditures remain but rather lower. And, this is not a gentlemen's thought, this is not said as an alibi of the Croatian Democratic Community that something cannot be done, this is said by the foundation and talks and consultations both with international financial institutions and domestics. For many things you simply didn't know, HABORA's loan, it's about 2001. The Ministry of Reconstruction and Development signed a billion-and-600 million-dollar reconstruction contract with HABOR. But in a way that works in 2002 of 670 million kuna, works since 2003 of 540 million kuna are not recorded that year as a spending party of the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development but that these works are paid directly to performers from HABOR. So, that year, the cost when it really came into existence and, according to all the positive regulations in the Republic of Croatia, it had to be recorded as the cost of the budget and again it would affect the deficit of those years, not registered. In fact, remember the pompous announcement that the government managed to reduce the planned deficit in 2002 from 6.8 to 4.8. And what happens in 2004, comes the first tranche of credit, actually last year there were 200 million, comes the first tranche of a 300 million kuna loan, it this year burdens the expenditures of the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development and fellow Kalmeti automatically for this amount is a reduction in the possibility of this year because the expenditures cannot rise according to the planned revenues, given the planned deficit, cannot grow as much as anyone remembers. But I'd like to say, those undisclosed 230 million this year, according to positive legal regulations, have been placed in the expense side of the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development's budget, just to prove that we don't want to run the same policy and that this year's parliamentary representatives will know that this last tranche of the HABOR loan is included in the expenditure side of the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development. There I would also like to say the programme of reconstruction of Croatian railways, probably the strongest and hottest topic in recent days. It was easy last year at 7 months to get the program, sign the contracts, so as next year goes, so be it. Among other things, it was said that an increase in excise duties by 30 lips was also planned. At that point, however, it was not known what the financial year would be, what the 2004 budget will be and what is most important, both for each company and for the state, has its own investment potential. He's got assets, a lot of funds he can spend on investment. Whether or not these are borrowing funds or liquid assets. But the most important thing is that at some point, they burden the budget with expenditure and burden these assigned indicators when making the state budget. And therefore, it is very difficult and impossible, practically all of these obligations that the former government would respect its programme of modernisation of Croatian railways because it was simply financially impossible to secure these funds because it really should be a magician. And be assured that this government has the same sensitivity as HZ is important both in transport infrastructure and also investments in HH which over 60% should practically work domestic companies, which would mean growth of gross domestic product and the problem of unemployment. So, finally, the planned deficit of the central state is 2.7% of gross domestic product or 5.4 billion. The Croatian Roads deficit is planned and Croatian Roads is 1.8, or 3.56 billion, or all 4.5 billion. And take that you do not have these billions of kunas not paid from last year, then Croatian roads would remain on the same size of jobs that will be made available this year have a deficit of almost 0.7% or those 0.7% could be rerouted, for example, for Croatian railways. Because if we had the ability to spend 0.7% more, we could direct these meetings to the Croatian railways. And I repeat what I want to say is what are the main objectives of this government in the end. It is the first thing to bring order into public finances, to bring the full public into public finances, so that Croatian citizens see where their money goes, to set up a state treasury. Without the formation of the Treasury, we cannot talk about the rational use of budget funds, we cannot talk about the rational use of the funds of our taxpayers. To establish internal surveillance, something that will control the spending of the state budget at the level of the State at the Ministry of Finance so internal control across all budget users that they too react over the year if something that does not comply with the law and prevent it in time. So, finally, let me repeat what the main objectives of the 2004 budget are. Maintaining macroeconomic stability, reducing government budget deficits, economic growth, maintaining low inflation, halting unemployment growth, increasing social, pension and defence spending, completing infrastructure facilities and active pro-European policy. And I'd just like to finally repeat what I said at the beginning. All these tasks can be accomplished in that volume and the form in which they are found in what macroeconomic environment they are found. These are not tasks and data that can be sucked from the finger, or shaken from the sleeve, but simply specified sizes that can be achieved at that given moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3857	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3858	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. The Rules of Procedure have been injured in a whole series of provisions since 209th, a whole chapter on maintaining order at sessions. And it's about the next one. Obviously, the drafters of the budget, I understand that there were many needs to be used for that, much more than the usual 30 minutes. ... context, analogies for work, please also allow club presidents to discuss the budget for 20 minutes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3859	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain, it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure at all. In accordance with Article 209 of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 209 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with Article 209 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, on And pursuant to Article 211, the proposer, or representatives of the proposer, may speak in the opening statement at the beginning of the debate for a maximum period of 30 minutes. At the end of the debate, 30. At any point, I can speak for 10 minutes. So, it's not that deadline that's exceeded. Because the pural promoters can speak each of them for 30 minutes that he determines. That's right, gentlemen. That's the kind of Rules of Procedure you voted in. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Tomcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3860	Mr. President, while respecting the importance of this topic, the state budget is one of the most important topics discussed by the Parliament, I have not protested on Article 211. But I'm asking you to withdraw your statement because you're wrong. According to Article 211, all applicants together can speak half now at the beginning and half an hour at the end. And when they report to the hearing in ten minutes. I ask that this statement of yours not cause any confusion in the future work of the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3861	Well, I didn't say anything else, I was quoting the Rules of Procedure. We're going to correct incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3862	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Mr. Minister Shucker who says this budget guarantees greater social rights to particularly retired people and is in line with the most intelligent policy. On the contrary, Mr. Minister, this budget definitely reduces the right of retirement because last year, 22 billion kunas were spent on pensions, and you are planning 2 billion and 600 million kunas this year. This means a pension reduction, and only 4% would be maintained and 2% of new users would need a billion and 300 million more, so we have the same level as last year. And as far as children are concerned, you're reducing the child's allowance by 40 million kuna birth benefits by just seven million kunas for 3 million kunas you're increasing. In what way. The numbers speak exactly the opposite of what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3863	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation, respected representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3864	Thank you very much. Here's to 56 jubilee trips. The financial plan was made by the parliament, the deficit was defined by the parliament, the government made a decision on the construction plan. We spent it all in a meeting with the prime minister and the finance minister. And it is quite clear that the same process in line with the IMF agreement under the point of contractin labilitis will be made this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3865	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3866	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of Finance's claim that no one has the right to implement what the Parliament brings is in breach of the fact that the proposed Budget for this year. The proposal for a Budgetary Act in Article 37 literally states that the provisions of Articles 9, 19, 26, 28 and 29 have not been applied. Law and budget. In other words, the budget was not drawn up in accordance with the Budget Act, so we do not have a budget projection for the next two years. And budgeting for the previous year. That claim is incorrect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3867	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3868	It is nice to hear from Mr. Shucker's finance minister that this government will work significantly differently, i.e. it will not make any decisions beyond the Croatian Parliament. But then, according to that logic, it would be good if I was the finance minister to warn the prime minister that yesterday he could make no promises in Mostar to increase the budget by 20 million before the same decision by the Croatian Parliament. Or maybe once, if the Prime Minister already knows he's going to prejudge our decision. We haven't made that decision yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3869	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation by a respected representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3870	Your Honor, President Shakespeare, the Honorable Prime Minister. In order to cultivate the notional tenacity or termological discipline in the House of Law, with the expression of satisfaction with the basic intensification of the Minister of Finance's presentation. After describing that the monitoring of the Croatian Roads Committee has been badly raised above the authority of this Assembly. He said it was inadmissible. He said it was inadmissible. That's the wrong quote. It's something that's legally forbidden. And it's legally punishable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3871	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Jelena Pavićiæ Vukičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3872	Thank you very much. I'd like to correct Mr. Shucker's imprecise quote. In connection with the isolated modernisation of Croatian railways. I am convinced that it is not actually an inability but that it is a programme orientation of the state budget for 2004. That it is not a lack of financial resources, but that it is a lack of desire and a programme to finance such modernisation. Namely, if the unit of local self-government as the city of Zagreb. It states in the programme objectives that the programme and the goal is to develop transport infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3873	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3874	It's an incorrect claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3875	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me. Mrs. Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3876	Mr. President, an honorary colleague in accordance with Article 209. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament did not correct the incorrect allegations but expressed its opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3877	That's true, but what do we do? Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3878	It is an incorrect claim by Minister Shuker that the former government would not implement a plan to modernise the railways. Because that's what you should be a mechanic for. That's incorrect. The former government started some infrastructure projects such as road construction and successfully implemented them. The former government planned to modernise the railways and would successfully implement the project. And that's why you shouldn't be a magician like Minister Schucker says, so you just have to be responsible and capable. It's a matter of decision, whether you want to go to the modernisation of railways or not to go to the modernisation of railways. It's not a matter of magic, it's a matter of will.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3879	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to report to the board. Let's take it in a row. Whether or not the rapporteurs of the Legislative Committee want to hear it. Yes, the chairman of the board, Mr. Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3880	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, the ministers of colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee at the 5th session held on 25 February 2004, discussed the proposal for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004. The president of the Croatian Parliament was given an act by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 18 February. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004. At the same time, the Committee proposes that the Croatian Parliament agree on the financial plans for 2004 and so on. Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, Croatian Employment Institute, Croatian Waters, Croatian Motorways. Croatian Roads, State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, Croatian Privatisation Fund, Environmental Protection Fund and Energy Efficiency. Furthermore, the Committee does not object to the state budget and decision to give its consent on the day of its publication. And thirdly, the Committee proposes to bring the next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised, together with the representatives of the proposings, to conduct an editorial of the text of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004. before his announcement in the National Journal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3881	Thank you. Does he want the chairman of the Finance Committee and the state budget? Yes, the chairman of the Board of Representatives of the Arthrial Shima. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3882	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Committee's discussion on this topic, and it's obvious that the budget was being drawn between the situation and the objectives in 2004 and that's about how the debate was going to work out what we're about to see on the board. So one was the debate in the area of justification and objectives and achievement of the 2004 targets, and another was the debate on the situation, however, without the opinions raised, as we will see in the end. The debate was about the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004, then the extra-financial funds and the following: Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Croatian Employment Institute, Croatian Waters, Croatian Autoroads, Croatian Roads, State Deposit Insurance Agency and Rehabilitation of banks and Croatian Privatisation Fund and a proposal for the State Budget and Expensive Funds non-consolidated for 2004 as well as the same consolidated for 2004. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a State Budget for 2004 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 24 February 2004. Financial and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of its competence as referred to in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 as a parent working body. Introductory representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that the National Budget for 2004 was developed and social and satisfied all components of social giving. It also ensured the continuation of the investments of individual projects in road construction, housing, transport infrastructure. It is particularly stressed that this year's budget is based on expected growth in gross national income of 3.2%, an average inflation of about 2.5% and an earlier announced deficit of the consolidated central state of around 4.5% of gross national income. The biggest problem with this year's budget was the liabilities of about 6.5 billion kuna transferred from last year as well as the payment of 16.8 billion kuna and 11.3 billion domestic and 5.5 billion foreign debt and 4.5 billion long interest. The main objective of the 2004 budget is to retain macroeconomic stability and fiscal consolidation through a reduction in the general government's budget deficit compared to the previous year. The first quantitative objective of the budget is the deficit of a consolidated central state of 9 billion kuna and about 4.5% of gross national income, with a deficit of around 2.7% of GDP or 5.4 billion kuna, while the Croatian highway, Croatian road, the State Agency for Bank Rehabilitation, the Croatian Fund for Privatisation in the deficit is about 1.8% of gross national income or 3.5 billion kuna. Following this opening presentation, the government's representatives were given the following opinions, objections and proposals. Firstly, the opinion was expressed that the draft State budget for 2004 did not have to be called so much for contractual commitments from the previous year, which were transferred in 2004 amounting to around €6.5 billion as one of the main limiting factors that reduced the government of the Republic of Croatia's room for manoeuvre in the construction of the State budget proposal for 2004. Such an approach is not good because there is a conflict of interest in the debate and adoption of each budget, but the past should not be an excuse for unrealised individual programmes of particular economic programmes. In this context, it was warned that the transferred liabilities from 99 in 2000 amounted to around 2 billion kuna. The draft budget for this year left out a picture of the fiscal projection for the next period that we have heard before, in 2005 and 2006. In addition, no planned data for the previous year has been presented in the budget for this year, which we also heard, so there is no possibility of a comparison of the amounts proposed for this year with the previous year. The past three years have seen a very positive trend in economic growth, based on the 2004 budget. This budget is a budget of continuity in substance because it was not possible to make some major steps on either the revenue side or the expenditure side of the budget under existing conditions. It has been warned that funds to promote economic development have been significantly reduced compared to last year so that subsidies to companies will be reduced, the fate of start-up development projects in 2003 financed by the Fund for Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, the HBOR Development and Employment Fund, since their funds are also lower than last year. It is also stressed that regional development is not sufficiently represented in this budget. In the proposed budget for this year, the export of goods should have an absolute priority, and the means to simulate exports should be significantly higher than the planned funds. In the context of tax policy, the opinion was expressed that the tax policy should not be restructured, arguing that the existing tax system was destroyed but should be upgraded with the aim of improving its efficiency. Although the 2004 State Budget explained that the Croatian Assembly reduced expenditure by 24.5%, which represents a savings of around 43.6 million kuna compared to the last year that the elections took place in 2003, it is said that such a huge reduction of funds for the Croatian Parliament can be further, i.e. marginalisation and the role of Parliament in the Republic of Croatia. In this year's budget, particular attention should be paid to the economic development of areas that have been devastationed by war, so-called ". areas of special concern as well as the development of the island as they fall into the same category. The budget for this year should be supported as it is developed and social and maximumly consistent with real opportunities. In particular, it is supported by the government's commitment to continue the construction of capital infrastructure projects for which around 803 million kuna or around 23.1% were proposed in the Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development compared to the execution of funds in 2003. After the debate was held, the committee decided by a majority vote, 7 votes for, 2 against and 1 abstention to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004, and the following decisions: Decisions on granting consent to the financial plan for 2004 to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, Decision on granting consent to the financial plan for 2004. Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, Decision on granting consent to the financial plan for 2004 to the Croatian Employment Institute, Decision on granting consent to the financial plan for 2004 to Croatian waters, then Decision on granting consent to the financial plan for 2004. Croatian highways, Decision on granting consent to the financial plan for 2004 to Croatian roads, then Decision on granting consent to the financial plan for 2004 to the Croatian State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, and Decision on granting consent to the financial plan for 2004. The Croatian Privatisation Fund. I thank you very much, so there were no opinions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3883	Thank you very much. Chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Petar Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3884	Thank you, Mr. President. Gentlemen, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed it at its meeting on 24 February 2004. Proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee considered the issue as an interested working body. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. Participants in the debate pointed to the methodological difficulties, comparing the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia's 2004 proposal with the relevant documents for 2003, due to changes in the number or organisation of the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration, in particular planned and particularly with the amounts achieved for the past year. As a result, a different assessment of the movement of funds for individual budget users compared to 2003 is possible, especially since the applicant did not follow these changes with sufficient analytical work. After the debate, which was attended by the Committee members, representatives of the proposings and individual users, the members of the Committee decided mostly on the following conclusion: It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 in the form made by the proposings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3885	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction Gordan Jandrokovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3886	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee for the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 3rd session held on 24 February 2004 discussed the proposal for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 with the corresponding contributions submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament in an act of 18 February 2004. The Committee shall be based on Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the above-mentioned National Budget, with corresponding contributions, shall be settled in the capacity of the interested working body. Following the opening presentation of the applicant's representative in the debate, which was followed by the majority of the Committee members, the position on which this proposal for a state budget was developmental and social and was made in line with the objective possibilities of its implementation. The budget supports macroeconomic stability and fiscal consolidation of the general government. The debate noted a positive trend that is reflected in the reduction of the state budget deficit, noting that the above trend is difficult due to the transferred commitments of 2003. In the course of the debate, the issue of collecting excise duties, the status of Croatian Railways, the financing of Regional and Local Self-Government Funds, the Employment Fund and the growth of interest on vault records has been raised. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously voted on 8 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 and the corresponding decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3887	Thank you. President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Mr. Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3888	Dear Mr. President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, below the 2nd session held on 25 February 2004, discussed the proposal for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 18 February 2004. The debate covers only part of the proposal for a state budget relating to the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and part of the security system. In its presentation, the Government's representative presented a macroeconomic framework for this year's budget, the main objectives of the budget, and the structure and assessment of the movement of public expenditure. He pointed out that the proposal for a state budget is developed and social, that it meets all components of social giving and that it provides for the continuation of investment projects in road construction, housing, transport infrastructure. The present authorised representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the directors of the security services, the anti-intelligence agencies, intelligence agencies, military-security agencies and the National Security Council offices have said that the planned financial resources fully ensure the enforcement of the laws of the prescribed tasks of those authorities. The Committee further examined the budget items proposed to finance those state administration bodies. After the discussion, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 in the text proposed by the motions, by a majority of 9 votes in favour of and 2 votes against and one abstention in the section relating to internal and security affairs and defence affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3889	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports Davorko Vidovic. The chairman of the Tourism Committee, Honored Representative Ante Markov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3890	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament at its 1st constitutive session held on 27 February 2004 discussed the proposal for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004, and the final draft law on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 18 February 2004. The National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 and the Final Proposal for a Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 have been disrupted by the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia as an interested working body pursuant to Article 140 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. A joint debate was held on the proposal from the Committee president. The opening argument was tabled by the representatives of the proposings, who, in their 2004 draft budget, pointed out that a real gross social product of 4.3 at the annual level is expected. In the debate that was held by all the members of the Committee, the role and investment for the tourism promotion of Croatia worldwide is particularly highlighted, and in the overall process of encouraging organised tourism traffic. Some members of the Committee made different views and views regarding the promotion and subsidisation of tourism transport. Some members of the Committee asked for possible negative sales trends in the European tourism market to strengthen the budgetary position in the subsidisation for organised tourism. After that debate, the Committee voted by a majority of 7 votes in favour and 5 votes against decided to submit to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 and the Law on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 in the text as drawn up by the Proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3891	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Honored Representative Zdenka Chuhnil, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3892	Dear President, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. At its 2nd session, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities considered the National Budget proposal as an interested working body. In accordance with its section of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee discussed in more detail those parts of the draft budget, which relate primarily to the financing of programmes and activities in the area of the exercise of the rights of national minorities, the protection and promotion of human rights, as well as those of the draft budget relating to support for Croatian minorities in neighbouring countries. In principle, it is pointed out that the classification and names of certain budget items relating to or should relate to those programmes and activities are not given in an appropriate direct manner making it difficult to analyse the draft budget and to take a position on that document. It is also pointed out that certain items which the Committee is particularly interested in do not have a comparative data on the funds provided in the state budget for the past 2003, making it difficult to consider the 2004 proposal. When it comes to financial support for programmes and activities relating to the implementation of the law, the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia have been satisfied that the funds are intended for associations and institutions of national minorities, which are deployed by the National Minority Council in accordance with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, are planned with an increase of about 10% compared to the previous year and from 20 to 22 million in 2004 respectively. It is about the means used for information and publishing, cultural amateurism, cultural events, programmes stemming from bilateral agreements and contracts, schemes to create assumptions for achieving cultural autonomy and participation of national minorities' associations in joint programmes organised by the National Minority Council. In view of the increase in the number of minorities given financial support and the increase in costs due to the increase in prices held by associations and institutions of national minorities, this nominal increase in the budget of around 10% does not mean a real increase in financial support to national minorities. Yet it has been found that the nominal increase will help to, to keep budget support for minorities realistically at the achieved level after several years of stagnating or even shrinking. As regards programmes and activities relating to the exercise of the rights of national minorities to education and education in minority language and letter, it has been concluded that the budget item for minority education has been increased by only 100,000 while pre-school education funds have been increased from one million and a half million in this year. It is estimated that the resources provided for textbooks in the minority follow-up are, unfortunately, still significantly less than the real needs. In this class, for years, there has been a chronic problem with the lack of textbooks. A particularly sensitive problem is the lack of textbooks for native language, literary and history, which are one of the basic assumptions for organising minority teaching. It is therefore assessed that it is necessary for the Ministry of Science, Education and Sport to come up with precise information on how much funding should be provided in the budget in order to finally address this multi-annual problem. The draft budget in the section relating to the Ministry of Culture does not specify the resources planned for the needs of national minorities. It is precisely that part of the necessary resources that is being met through programmes and activities under the responsibility of the Ministry. Minority libraries and reading rooms, cultural development programmes of particular interest for national minorities, the restoration of cultural monuments and religious objects that are part of the monumental and cultural treasures of Croatia, and are related to the culture and identity of national minorities. It is therefore also requested for that part of the budget to be submitted by the applicant during the debate on the Budget Proposal to give the necessary information. The debate particularly highlights the issue of insurance of assumptions for the national achievement of the programme, the National Programme for Roma, which last year was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The implementation of the programme is within the competence of several ministries and within the scope of the Office for National Minorities. The draft budget sets out the amount of 934 thousand kuna planned for the implementation of the programme under the Office for National Minorities and the amount of one million kuna within the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction is planned for the spatial planning of the area of populated Roma and the amount of 50 thousand kuna provided for under the Ministry of Health and Social Care. The funds to be provided within other ministries are not specifically listed so it is not known how much they are. Therefore, during the debate on the Budget Proposal in the Assembly, the Proposer and the information was asked to be presented. When it comes to financial support for Croatian minorities in neighbouring countries, it has been pointed out that the draft budget cannot determine which purposes and who, on the basis of which this assistance is provided and how much funding is planned. It is reasonable that within the Croatian Government's Human Rights Office, the amount of 144 thousand are foreseen to monitor the human rights of Croats as members of national minorities in other countries. In the framework of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, an item entitled to assist national minorities abroad with a million kuna, while within the Ministry of Culture, an amount of 12 million kuna is planned for the international programme of Croatian Radio – The Voice of Croatia, and in the framework of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports amounting to 23 million kuna. Last year, it amounted to 18 and a half million for the education of children of Croatian citizens abroad. Given that it is working in items that clearly include not only assistance to Croatian minorities in other countries but also Croatian citizens abroad, he estimated that the proposal should provide more precise information on how much the total funds are provided for Croatian minorities in neighbouring countries. Whether they are smaller or larger than last year and what is the structure or purpose of that assistance. As regards the funds for programmes and activities aimed at protecting and promoting human rights, it was concluded that the draft budget increased the funding of the Croatian Government's Human Rights Office from 2 million to 3 million in 2004, which explained that it was primarily because part of the funds previously provided under the Office for Associations, which concerned financial support to human rights promotion associations, would be needed by the Human Rights Office, through which projects of NGOs from the field of protection and promotion of human rights will be co-financed in 2000. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 with the proposal to take a position on the Budget Proposal and explain the comments and proposals made at the Committee's session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3893	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee and rapporteur of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, Mr Zvonimir Mršić. Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3894	Mr. President, representatives of the Croatian Government of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a state budget at the 1st session held on 24 February. The Committee discussed that part of the proposal for a state budget entering its area. Following the opening explanation of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and Water Economy, most of the members of the Committee supported the proposal for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004. In the debate, it has been indicated that, in order to create a responsible agricultural policy, the budget intended for agriculture needs to be increased in the long term. Furthermore, the opinion has been continued that more resources should be raised for direct support in agriculture in this proposal for the State budget and, if necessary, by rerouting the resources of the reserve. However, some Committee members hold that the total amount intended for agricultural aid in the 2004 National Budget Proposal should be significantly higher than proposed in order to make it easier for our agricultural producers to adapt to the requirements of the European Union. In further discussion, the opinion was that due to the lack of payment of monetary incentives in the past period, the questionable sufficient funds for this purpose were in 2004. It is also proposed that more resources intended for aid be directed towards fruit production. and thus reduce the imports of these crops for production of which the Republic of Croatia has all the comparative advantages. The question was also raised as to the amount of the total funds allocated to this proposal for the state budget, agriculture compared to 2003. It has been warned that if an amount of cca 400 million kuna is rejected for subsidies spent on repairing the damage from the elementary drought, the amount of the agricultural budget for 2004 is nominally lower than that for 2003. Therefore, some board members warn that the previous budgets for subsidies have increased cca 20% and are now forecasting a reduction. On the basis of the debate held, the Croatian Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Forestry decided, with a majority of votes of 7 votes, 4 abstentions, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to bring the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3895	Thank you. President of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, Honored Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. You don't want to. On behalf of the Committee, the report. Thank you. The chairman of the War Veterans Committee, Mr Vlado Jukic. President of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, Mr Marko Turic, would you like to submit a report? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3896	Dear Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 3rd session of the Committee on Reflection on 24 February 2004, discussed the proposal of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004, submitted by the Croatian Parliament President by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 18 February 2004. The Committee discussed the proposal for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 as an interested working body in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Following the introduction of the proposal's representative, a brief discussion was held in the whole proposal, and then more extensively in the section relating to the work of the Committee. It has been pointed out that, when considering the state budget, it should primarily bear in mind that the delegated commitments made by budgetary users in 2003 have a direct impact on the 2004 budget. However, this proposal fully satisfies all components of social giving, while also ensuring the continuation of investment projects. Road construction, housing, transport infrastructure. What committee members have specifically warned in the debate is that the proposal has a clear social significance, and with a realistic assessment of economic growth, increased social expenditures. This is especially seen from an increase in the budget for the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity by 23% compared to the previous year. It also increased the budget allocations of the Ministry of Health and Social Care by more than 716 million kuna compared to the previous year. The formation of a new portfolio at the Ministry of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, which will have 27.2 million kuna for the care of older people, will certainly contribute to more effective care for third-aged people. Ensuring specific means of monitoring and improving policies for disabled people will undoubtedly contribute to the social empowerment of persons with special needs, the debate noted. After the discussion, the board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004, together with the financial plan for 2004, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and the Croatian Employment Institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3897	Thank you. Rapporteur of the European Integration Committee. Honorable representative Vlado Kurečić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3898	Dear Mr. President, respected members of the Croatian government, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the 3rd session held on 23 February 2004, the Croatian Parliament's Committee for European Integration discussed a proposal for the state budget for 2004 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 18 February 2004. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed this legislative proposal as an interested working body. The members of the Committee were interested in funds intended for the integration process of the Republic of Croatia, in particular the Ministry of European Integration, which the home body of the State Administration for the process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. It is pointed out that the 2004 budget sets 41% more funds for the Ministry of European Integration compared to the previous year. After the debate was held, the Committee on European Integration unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3899	I'm thanking you. President of the Committee on Immigration, Honored Representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3900	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. At its 2nd session of 25 February this year, the Croatian National Budget for 2004, which was tabled by the government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament, an act of 18 February this year. The Committee considered this proposal as an interested working body, in particular referring to part of the state budget, which mentions the expenditures and expenditures of state bodies and other beneficiaries of the budget according to the activities and projects programmes. The opening argument was tabled by the proposal's representative, pointing to the new structure of the state budget, which is why the participants of the debate encountered difficulties in reading the proposal for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004. The proposer's representative reminded of changes in the number and organisation of the ministries and other bodies of the state administration, and therefore the funds intended for certain programmes of the activities and projects of those users of the state budget, which are interested in the Committee on Immigration, the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, emigrants, returnees, Croatian national minorities in European countries, are in different positions. During the debate, there was another duplication of the committee on whether this legislative proposal should be followed by an urgent procedure or referred to another reading. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3901	Thank you. If any other committee rapporteurs are willing to submit an oral report, which they are not. There's no more. I'm opening a debate. The club representatives go first. On behalf of the IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3902	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council! It's hard to even tell what this budget is like. Perhaps the closest thing to the truth is that this is a continuity budget and that continuity can also be a crash in a disaster called the debt crisis. It is clear to me that the HDZ majority, supported by their coalition partners, will never admit it but that the HDZ gentlemen are in opposition or as they like to say in the opposition, would probably perform as they did last year and as I will perform at this time. The story of how the debt of the state shrinks from external debt I think it's a story for naives. The story of foreign reserves exceeding $6 billion is also naive when we know that only Romania and Bulgaria have fewer foreign reserves compared to the gross social product than the Republic of Croatia. This budget directly leads Croatia to a debt crisis and for a maximum of two years we may face it. The end of the term of office, the government will welcome 40 billion dollars in foreign debt or debt per capita, if the dollar is clear, it will be around $10,000. It strengthens or does not weaken the kuna and God forbid the announcement by the Prime Minister that the external debt will not continue at that pace. In 2003 alone, external debt increased by $8 billion, more specifically from 15.5 to $23.5 billion. Within three months, the new government or the country's external debt has increased by $2 billion, which is worth over $600 million in the country. These are government bonds of 200m euros plus HBOR 300m euros. And if we want to preserve clearly the existing standard of external debt will continue to grow. I know it is hard to admit that Croatian citizens live above the possibility of Croatian economy clearly they live far worse than they deserve, but Croatian citizens live above the possibility of Croatian economy. Only one Croatian county is able to export as much as it imports. It's Istrian. I've got that data in 11 months, so I'm gonna compartmente with the Primorian-Gorski County. For 11 months, exporting from Istria was 704 million dollars, importing 690, for 12 months to export 750 and importing $770 million as much as the city of Zagreb with 800 thousand inhabitants. For example, the Primorje-Gorski County had an export of only $204m for 11 months, importing only $500m. So, if the goods exports of the Republic of Croatia are $6 billion, then the County of Istria with 4.5% of the population is involved somewhere 12%. If we add tourism in which Istria County participates 40% then Istria County with 4.5% of its residents in the foreign foreign exchange inflow of the Republic of Croatia clearly does not count the signs from abroad with over 20% and so much is not to be asked why, let's say, the government has supported some Istrian development projects and the IDS will never support the HDZ government. And this was done because it is really normal to know that every Croatian region cannot participate equally in the launch of Croatia. Mr. Schucker was absolutely right when he said just now that the investments have been downgraded for the last four, five years in the country, and without them, I agree, we're underwritten. Secondly, what is the Croatian problem number one? So it is not even the external debt ratio in this gross product of the Republic of Croatia anymore, but whether at any time the Croatian National Bank will. The government will be able to secure foreign exchanges for ruthless imports and payment of external debts. It is clear that Croatia is passing or falling, so anything leading to the soon entry into the European Union of IDS welcomes it. Why? Because Croatia only saves the euro. Thirdly, for the former governments, external debt has increased by about $13-13.5 billion. It's not like the former HDZ government wouldn't have taken foreign loans if it could have gotten those in 1998-1999. Unfortunately, ine loans could not be obtained at the time and that was the fundamental reason for the terrible insolvency that hit the country in 1998-1999. And that's why I just want to say it. Let's stop playing hide-and-seek around some generals because Croatia has never been more dependent on international I will say understanding than it is today. The absence of only one international credit line leads Croatia where we were in 1998 or 1999. In 2004, being forced to settle the ino and to single out the domestic debt of 22.5 billion kuna is nothing compared to what one such inoperability could bring us. I agree, it won't be easy for Minister Shucker or Prime Minister, which this year will have to allocate those 22 billion kunas from the budget for ino and domestic debt. That's more than every fourth budget kuna. I would say that it is even worse if it is true that it was part of these obligations hidden either through that POS, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, Roads, etc. The budget is clearly a political act and it is understandable that, at a time when controversy is being conducted, for example, over the abolition of supplementary health insurance, one fact is that BiH's path to Bosnia and Herzegovina is leaving for the health insurance of some other institutions to go to 60 million kuna. I agree, it also needs to help humanitarian institutions in the neighbouring country but for 100 kuna plus, say, 6% that are now included in the tax base and align pensions with the cost of living, perhaps after a new gross social product, wage growth, etc. The modest 24 to 80 million kunas will stand out. That's about 2.5 to 8 kuna a month, I repeat 2.5 to 8 kuna a month. So Bosnia Zdenka's trip leaves 60 million kunas and these millions and so many pensioners stand out 80 million kunas in 2004. Then I wonder what's going on and on the other hand it's increasing the gap between those who retired after 30.6. and those who retired before 30.6. In one word, I think that would be the best linear increase. Secondly, as far as this minority problem is concerned. First, these minority elections ended in a complete debacle. In one word, the election of citizens of other nationalities or these elections confirmed that existing legislation is even dared to make an institutional mistake. If these people don't want to, and apparently through this form of law they don't want to, it means that they consume it by minority representatives and they don't want it without a double vote, then they're literally talking about it, and because of the general public, it encourages a kind of segregation, no matter what the law is written in good faith, no matter what the IDS voted for it. Citizens of other nationalities do not want to use their rights because they are being gained by the law. So, the solution is not that the elite of minorities, I don't know, come to some assistant minister, but that citizens of Serbs, Roma, I don't know everyone else, Hungarians etc., can come to work like all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. For minorities this year, 22 million kunas stand out, and elections for the council cost 20 million kuna. But something else is important, even in 2003, so the last government committed itself to some of the obligations that must be made in 2004 and well to continue. This is among other renovations of 100, excuse me, 11 thousand 500 damaged houses, the return of 3 thousand 509 units, it is necessary to provide 60 million kuna for the construction of 1500 apartments for tenants... The budget, it's also a political homement, so let me just say two words about the optanic property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These 35 million dollars that Croatia needs to pay off to the Republic of Italy by the basis of an 83 agreement is not a problem, that is something I would say should not spend too many words, Croatia can settle those 35 million dollars tomorrow, and perhaps in a way that will give us 35 million dollars worth of property, which Sarinić suggested in 93th and will eventually give us our tycoons or foreigners in one way or another to get to all the islands. But the point is when the fixed property is on Wednesday that Croatia will have to settle the value of 5236 people who received the so-called The discharge from Yugoslav citizenship, and the fate of their property was nationalisation. So of the 186,000 esuls that left these premises, 5236 has the right to return realistically below the thousand. Right, the budget said political document. After the government gentlemen, the Parliament, decided to visit Jasenovac, I say it is very good, the Croatian public in some way expected the government to suggest that at least comply with the rights of the NORA fighters with the domestic war. This category of World War II fighters don't want gestures. Why? Because tomorrow, there won't be any, there will be acts. And a minimum of decency would be to align the rights of the disabled NORA and the Homeland War. As far as the 8th constituency is concerned, it is Istria, Rijeka, Primorje-Gorski County, just a few words. Let's start with what life means. It's, it's hospitals, it's KBC River, it's Pula General Hospital. Those two constitutionals deserve, I would say, as Mr. Milinovic says, our vice president to meet under one roof. This is primarily clearly due to the citizens of Istria, Rijeka, Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, etc. We can secondly ask that each city be represented in the budget for next year but that is unrealistic. Let me just say that the Primorje-Gorski County only gets 61.2 million kuna plus 141 million kuna, which means 200 million kuna. Like. for Small Lošinj Elementary School, a sports hall in Bakr. 141 million kuna for the university, for the November center 17.8 million kuna, for the University of Rijeka 16 million kuna, for KBC Rijeka only 2.6 million kuna. The Istrian County receives only 28 million kuna or 18 million kuna according to these documents, less than 2003. And for this speaker, the IDS Club said in 2003 that in the history of the Republic of Croatia, the County of Istria had never received less funding, so 2003 except for those war years 91/95. And now 18 million kunas are less. What is particularly interesting is that they hide these items of Croatian Waters, billions and 600 million kunas, i.e. Croatian Roads a billion and 800 million kunas. I don't know what's going on here on the coastal-goran county, in the Istrian county. But we defacto without the cost specifications of these I'll call them extra-account funds we shouldn't even discuss in this budget and it'll happen to us that through this form of these 3 billion and 400 million kunas as hidden as it is that these money will eventually be distributed by party criteria and there's no one right to do that. But I want to say that priority no. 1. are clear in Istria roads and general hospital Pula. What there is no courage for is that no budget item this year should have been greater than for the settlement of debts since 2003. Someone should have hit the table with their fists and said, "This year's budget will be like last year's." We're not ready to deal with the same thing, or we're not ready to deal with it, but at the age of two, in two years, we may face a crisis. Personally, I think that despite the fact that the new government hasn't been part of it, it's also a matter of helping Victor Lentz. We have a situation that this bankruptcy will take hundreds of other small ops also into bankruptcy, they've been working. Trade companies paid taxes, but they paid to work. The craftsmen guarantee all their property if you're in a position to help them. For the end of this budget leads, I keep Croatia in serious trouble, our citizens are largely unaware, the government is likely to, but we will not be able to avoid the problem of responsibilities because the note bene becomes an overindebted country. And lastly, it is bad that the prime minister opened a debate on this budget saying it is a budget that HDZ and their coalition partners are beginning to fulfill their election promises. This should, however, have been primarily a budget for all Croatian citizens. I understand that logic, on the basis of this budget and these promises, elections have been won, the mandate may be repeated, but God forbid that it also carries a perspective for everyone in the Republic of Croatia. As far as privatisation is concerned, brightly, this year a billion and 500 kuna are due through the sale of those 800 company ownership packages means job security is hardly going to be. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3903	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3904	Time, but no one warned Mr. Shucker and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3905	I'm starting to chair... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3906	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3907	Thank you, dear fellow Cain. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Shuker. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3908	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. So I have to respond to allegations, crashes in disaster, Croatia in debt crisis. I must declare here responsibly that Croatia has no problem serving its debt. The budget projection, as well as the explanation, is ultimately forecasting that Croatia's external debt will be around 27 billion kuna at the end of 2004. If it were to go according to this projection that the esteemed representative presented then Croatia would owe about 90 to 100 billion kuna in 3 years, which is certainly not because when you look at the structure of the external debt of the Republic of Croatia, then you will see that the state budget participates somewhere with 30% and 70% are banks and companies. And since most of those loans that were out there were owed to the banks went towards loans from Croatian citizens to consumption. It is to be estimated that the dynamics of such borrowing will not be in the coming years. Therefore, the projection that at the end of the year will be an external debt of 40 billion is something that is not good to the Croatian public or also spoken on a flat-rate basis. Also, this government is in charge of over 2 billion for 60 days of government not true. Because by the end of 2003 it was 23.7 billion now 24 and a half. The biggest consequence of this debt is the exchange rate difference i.e. A drop in dollars. And also 200m euros in issued bonds on the domestic market are not an increase in debt, but those funds have been used to repay already existing debt. And I would like to say that I agree with the support that in the next years, it is prepared to propose that extra- budget funds, with an income and expenditure plan, propose and then we will no longer question what the Parliament needs or does not need to adopt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3909	Thank you very much, Minister. Correction of the incorrect quote Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3910	So I didn't say that the end of the year Croatia will welcome with an external debt of $40 billion. I said that at the end of this government's term Croatia will welcome with an external debt of $40 billion. Or it's going to come from the current $5,000 US dollars at the end of this government's mandate that's somewhere in 2007 the percapitation of percapitals will be somewhere around $10 billion. Well, only the Ministry of Finance predicted not 27 billion kunas as said by Mr. Schuker, the finance minister, but that the country's end of the year would be met with an external debt of 27 billion dollars. I'm saying it'll certainly be a billion and two more.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3911	Thank you very much. A colleague of Caine's. We now have a red light it would be good to pay attention. Minister Shuker needs to explain. There isn't. Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the club HSLSA and DCA esteemed representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3912	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a budget as the name itself says about the calculation between the wishes of the budgetary users and the citizens of this country and the real possibilities of the state budget and the Government. I would prefer that, today, when we talk about the budget, we talk about the calculation, or finally calculate ourselves with one methodology, and also the political practice of budgeting, in which it is known in advance that we are going to have a gauge within which we can move already predetermined to everything she has done or rather said what she has not done or what she has failed to do to the former government, that we cannot practically calculate ourselves with the fact that we are spending more than we can earn. To remain the same eons of structural difficulties that we've been having so far. I don't want to cover this government, I think this budget was made in the best possible way within all existing parameters. Especially if we have in mind what my colleagues were talking about before me, 11 and a half billion kunas of internal debt, 5 outsiders. With all that interest. If we bear in mind the balance of payments deficit, if we keep in mind the external trade deficit, we understand that in such conditions radical calculation or what I mentioned of the budget which would also be calculated with the previous methodology and political practice is not possible. In 2000, I spoke to all my parties about the budget, hoping that we would actually make a budget in the same period in Korizna. That we will finally reach a useful budget in the Republic of Croatia, not of course in the theological discourse, in 2000, not of course in the theological discourse, but in political discourse. That we will finally be able to reduce the appetites of a bulky and fat state, which enjoys a little bit of its salinity. That spends so much more than the citizens of this country can earn than they can earn. I'd really like us to finally take one of our own budgets. A budget in which we will put the state on the post not nemrs, in which we will realize that we can only spend what we have and during the year. That is, in which we will already design in advance that all budgetary users and citizens of this country will be able to benefit from the budget just as much as we have succeeded in this budget. In these circumstances, this government could do nothing but try to curb the excessive external debt and further borrowing, try to keep public spending at that level with the projected growth it has been on so far. Try not to raise in certain budget items because when you raise in one budget item, this as a domino effect causes increased appetites, unenhancing desire and hunger and all other budget users in other budget items. So in the given circumstances, I think that it was only possible, but maybe we won't be able to do it in this useful budget because I certainly think by the end of the year that we all have to get used to not only the states together, but also our builders getting used to that we can spend just what we make. What we as a party and as a club are most interested in is a few areas above all education and science. Justice and the economy, I can say, is the satisfaction of giving, however, the resources for education and science are increased. They are certainly not increased to the extent that we should be able to reach that separation rate for these social performances as it stands out in Europe today. Unfortunately, we still stand out too little, and therefore these areas are underinvested. However, it should be said that the government has found the means and that it has gained political will to raise the level of separation for education and science. For us in HSLS and DC, there is no doubt only education and science with a well-organised judicial and administrative system and economy that can be launched are just the main factors of Croatia's development. As long as we believe that education and science only gives spending of budgets, which, of course, are the effects and effects that we cannot be immediately aware of, which we cannot see in the short term, I think that Croatia will not be able to run. We therefore express our satisfaction would be good if it were to be made we hope that there would be no need for budget rebalancing, to think even more about increasing education and science spending. We are equally pleased that more funds for the judiciary have been allocated. Croatia cannot be a legal auction without a regulated judicial and administrative system. A judicial system that is not effective is not a judiciary, a administration that has stalled procedures, a administration that is not effective cannot respond to all the challenges that today, which are being set by our citizens towards the central state, according to local administration and self-government. Equally similar is the situation in the economy. It was possible to make an internal distribution of funds, administration according to those parameters spoken of by the minister, and which we are aware of. However, I must say that as a club and as a personal representative, I think that the exact opposite of fellow Caine is the time to break up with the practice of keeping losers on artificial machines that we will artificially hold on to life, again if you look at the structure of the economy you will find what I know the government has taken over and is not guilty of it. The most resources for shipyards that we know in advance will not get the economic impact and will not be the cover of the development of the Croatian economy, and when you look again towards the regional structure of individual industrial and economic branches, you will see that, unfortunately, exporters remain the least subsidized. We think the time has come for us to finally not only direct subsidies but through investment promotion agencies to encourage as much as possible to make Croatia attractive not only for the foreign but also for domestic investments. As mayor of a city, which is also designated as a city that is ahead in attracting investment, I can unfortunately say that until now central government assistance in ensuring the basic conditions for new investment mainly for high technologies has been symbolic even to say almost nothing without the development of municipal infrastructure, without a stronger boost in investment Croatia itself cannot draw itself out. Croatia cannot pull itself out for the cupper as it stands in a fairy tale. We need to be aware that without new values, without the flow of fresh capital and without direct subsidisation of investments, we cannot run Croatia economically. I therefore think that over the year already, and especially in the planning of the next budget, more resources should be provided for just to boost exports because we all know that in the foreign trade balance deficit, we are practically only 40% of imports are covered by exports, which is somewhere at the bottom of the European scale. What I would also like to point out if we were looking at the global revenues of the budget, which seems to me that the minister pointed out several times before the elections, and after the government has established itself and I don't see unfortunately here in the income and expenditure account, that is, the fact of business is that ladies and gentlemen that we can't rely only on direct fiscal incomes primarily on taxes and income tax and profit tax because this would mean an even greater burden on labour prices and even more burden on entrepreneurs and would practically mean the detimulation of new entrepreneurship initiatives, but what we can definitely and in my opinion must, it's a rise in excise duties. I can see that excise duties have increased here, but I think in the club we still think that our citizens need to be relieved of their excessive burdens, but certainly like all socially secure states, let's just take, for example, Scandinavian states we can only raise funds if we're going to cut the labour price by increasing excise duty to luxury. And I think it's our job for everyone here to make as much money as possible on that consumption, the luxurious consumption. We are not happy with the fact before it discourages us that unfortunately in the 2003 income structure, so the former government, for example, excise duties on tobacco products fell. That's inadmissible. As well as excise duties on alcoholic beverages. Unfortunately, in this country, we don't think enough about alcoholism, we don't think enough about taxing luxury consumption, and you know that almost in us on average, sports success is getting drunk. No one thinks alcohol is something that is a luxury and something that should be burdened by citizens in any way. I think exactly the opposite. If we are to reduce the labour price and dissipate the average citizens, then we need to put as much burden as possible on the tax, or impose on the so-called. Luxurious consumption, and I would like these excise duties to be greater and that perhaps the range of these excise duties is then more allocated to education, science, justice and the economy. All in all HSLS and DC will support this budget. We think he's balanced in the income and expenditure balance. I think he still retains the appetites of overconsumption to the limit that was now possible to design the budget. The same way we think that it ensures both social peace in the country and certain stability when it comes to budgetary users. It provides through education and science a slightly larger means for a younger generation, but also through separation and pensioners so that we can say that we will still talk about some kind of social co-existence of intergenerational, or generational co-existence, but we also suggest that during this year, if it is possible, instead of really this kind of budgetary planning, we need to talk about budgetary calculation with an old methodology and with old political practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3913	Thank you very much, dear colleague Chehok. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. She is the first colleague, Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3914	Col. Chehok praised the increase in funding for science and education which is unquestionable and indeed when the numbers are summed up to 7%, he said it was a strategic investment of the economy, etc. However, it seems to me that he did not follow the items closely, as more than half of the increased funds relate to the increased costs for primary and secondary education staff, and all of what my colleague Chehok was talking about and what I agree should be increased significantly has been reduced. One example. Programs of the Science and Higher Education Foundation and technological development in the head related to technology transfer and knowledge reduced from 15 million to million kuna. So it's a completely incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3915	Thank you very much, colleague Lugaric. The next correction to the incorrect quote of counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3916	Dear Madam Vice President...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3917	Excuse me, my colleague, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3918	I think Miss Lugaric hurt the Rules of Procedure, Article 209 because she did not correct the incorrect assumption. It's true what I said about the total amount of funds being more allocated to education. Thus, she did not correct the incorrect assumption but practically gave her incorrect claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3919	... from the bench. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Next correction by counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3920	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Chehok made an incorrect allegation when he said that significantly higher funds were being allocated to the judiciary. They are nominally not even at the level of what was scheduled for 2003, simply by rebalancing is somewhat reduced. However, in our project in order to start reforming the judiciary at all and to keep it at that desired level, it was necessary to allocate 2 billion and 500 thousand kuna, not a billion and 900. Education at the same level, and there are so many employees of judges, information, information tools that are key and education for judicial reform are smaller, and out of that amount, the lion's share of a billion and 200 relate only to wages. Then you can see what's left and what's for judicial reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3921	Thank you very much, colleague. Please, without being thrown out of the bench, there are mechanisms for you to answer the word. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3922	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would also like to say something about the Croatian public, and also about the parliamentary representatives. It's one thing that the former government planned in the budget, and the other thing is what it looks like is that budget execution and I can please speak. The thing is, according to the law on the implementation of the budget of the Government during the year, it was redistributing between positions so that the rebalanced budget that was adopted in this House and that it brought this Parliament and when you look at its execution with 31.12.200 it seems quite different. And I think when I talk about the indexation of expenditure then, given that the budget is passed after the 2003 implementation is known that it is logical for the parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public to talk about indexing the executive funds, which is impossible when the budget is adopted in the regular procedure when it is not known what will be executed. So when it comes to concrete information for the Ministry of Justice in relation to the executive funds, the funds planned in the 2004 budget are 238 million higher, I have to point out, because in a month and a half we will have a report on the implementation of the 2003 budget and you will see that the various positions adopted by this House were one planned and the other government has made the redistribution within the positions quite different by its own decisions over the year and I think it is logical that we are talking at this point about the execution for 2003. Because if we talk about the big difference between the plan and the execution, then the question is why the former government didn't meet the plan until the end, then that plan would be the basis for the indexation for the planning of the funds this year because if that had happened then the current budget deficit would have happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3923	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First Vice-President Ms. Vesna Pusic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3924	I thank Madam Vice President, it is incorrect that Minister Schuker said it is justified to compromise the rebalanced budget from last year with the plan for this year, it is obvious that it is justified to plan only with the plan because this government will also have a budget rebalance as well as in the rebalancing of last year it is obvious that one part of the funds went to settle the damage from drought, therefore it is incorrect to compromise the rebalanced budget because this plan will also be rebalanced during this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3925	Thank you very much. The next amendment is colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3926	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister is now talking about indexation here, but it is important to say that there is no speech from the Government's announcement that the reform of the judiciary is a priority of this government, with these means do not now call for indexation, but with these means you will hardly cover salaries and current maintenance at all and for the work of the judicial authorities you will not be able to achieve this because already judges are traveling by their own cars, tanking their vehicles with their own means and some are already canceling from the National Journal. So they have neither the National Journal nor the laws from which they can even follow and judge. So, you're making it impossible to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3927	Thank you very much, colleague. For the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Minister, I'm sorry, I know that on behalf of the promoter you have always the right to speak, please welcome fellow Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3928	Madam Vice-President, I ask you, twice, the Rules of Procedure in Article 209 and Article 214 have been injured. Namely, counterpart Antičević persistently abuses a tile with the correction of an incorrect quote to replicate that she would present her opinions and not to correct incorrect allegations and you did not respect the Rules of Procedure in Article 214 for the second time after such a reaction and gave her a warning of such behaviour.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3929	Thank you very much, colleague Matusic, for not being able to give a warning during someone's presentation, but I accept criticism. On behalf of the proposer's representative, Minister Shucker, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3930	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, it is strange to interpret the termology that the rebalance of the plan is not a plan, the rebalancing of the plan is based on the assumption that certain positions will be exceeded or reduced and the moment the rebalancing is adopted then it is a new plan and the old budget is no longer valid. Therefore, Mr Pusic's claim does not stand. And as for the costs of the judiciary, very interesting that all these costs, all of these expenditures with lower expenditures of 238 million could have been made in 2003 and very interesting that with the increased expenditures of 238 million it would be impossible to do so in 2004. It's something that I'm mathematically looking at vaguely. So if last year at 9% less expenditure we actually managed 11% less expenditure to cover all of this, then how impossible it is that this year with increased expenditure we will remain at least at the level of last year and not increase some things, then that means that, as 100 million kunas were not paid, for judicial officials in 2003 but it was done on the burden of the 2004 budget that some expenditures were also not made. Because it doesn't make sense if you settled everything in 2003 that with the increase in the budget you won't be able to settle it in 2004 it's something.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3931	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. State Secretary Mr. Nevio Šetić, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3932	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to intervene in the part where the impression is made in front of the Croatian public that less resources have been allocated for science and education. I'm just saying that more than last year's budget is 6.38%, and when it comes to technological research and activity, then we've provided an exceptional increase of 52.93%, in spite of one part of the World Bank's loans, but that shows exactly how much in this budget and what position science, technology and education have received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3933	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the debate. In the name of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek, please elect a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3934	Madam Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. As HSS, we will not be trapped to discuss the positions of the past budget and we would also not want to discuss whether the debt transferred to this year is 6 billion and something kuna, whether 9 billion kuna was transferred in 2000, I as a member of this Government just remember that in March we were paying the wheat that the ransom state was in June and I deeply hope that we will no longer be in such positions, that we will know this through the Law on Transfer of Power and that we will bring this law here in the Assembly by consensus. I would also like to point out that we are satisfied with retaining macroeconomic stability, with a reduction in the general government's budget deficit compared to last year, then with the social sensitivity of the state through established positions in the budget for different categories of citizens, as well as with the continuation of capital projects, especially in road construction, housing and insurance, the growth of wages in line with signed collective agreements. But out of the global framework, we in no way can accept the projected growth rate of only 3.2% for a simple reason because we have no continuity. Let's remind ourselves of the 99th year we had negative growth, in 2001 already growth of 3.8, another 5.2, 2003. 4.3%. For us to enter the European Union, we do not only need to respond positively to the questions that have been asked to us, no important legislative adjustment must we prepare ourselves economically for entering Europe and we have only a few years to do so. There we are not only expected to be helped and subsidies, there is a fierce market match waiting for us, and obviously we need to make a adjustment programme, and the adjustment programme can be the only growth that HSS has talked about so far and presented its concept where it foresees accelerated growth at rates of 7-8% but with a different role of the state through a partnership where we do not only see various solutions in the country's classical loans to banks or by issuing securities to the country's classical debts to loans to banks or by issuing securities we already want to go to the public and private sector partnership and to create a quality environment for foreign investment. Support for this budget will be conditional upon several requests. First of all, the first requirement is to ensure the implementation of the National Pensions Act with 300 million kunas where they would like to ensure, in accordance with constitutional provisions, the existence of all those who have no income or their incomes are less than 650 kuna and older than 65 years. Secondly, we're going to ask for an increase in agricultural segregation. After 4 years of growth of the agricultural budget, we first come to stagnation this year for the first time. We do not have growth, and we all know that we must resolve the bad situation of last year due to drought, that we must also prepare for the European Union in the long term through the planting of permanent vineyards, fruits and others, and also provide greater incentives to try to act through lower prices on smaller imports of food, as well as to ensure subsidies in this budget as well as all other countries that will subsidise market surpluses and achieve higher exports. We will ask for more money for capital projects, only 4 billion and 350 million kuna are provided for refrigerators and wholesalers. Only 500 thousand kunas have been secured for anti-urban protection, and 5 million and 600 thousand kuna, which we consider to be too small. In the economy, our demand comes down to greater support for exports, production and employment. In this regard, we propose, first of all, that 24 billion kunas are excluded from the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, including from the former JNA and from our unexplainable reasons. I believe that these positions have nothing to do with the economy and that we need to know transparently what we want to develop this sector with. In particular, we will have a sensitivity to the small economy development programme given the effects it has so far given through the employment of 50,000 workers in this sector and through the increased investment we have had in it. The positions with which we are not particularly satisfied are positions for craftsmen only 6 million and 300,000 kunas which actually tells us to single out 60 million kunas per craft. We all know we have more than 100,000 in Croatia today. For those small economies, a project that is extremely good, which has encountered the response of an investor is supported by 50 million kuna, or it is only 250,000 kuna per zone which we consider to be too small. We'll insist on more. Entrepreneurship of women 1 and a half million kuna and young 1 million kuna. Only in the program we've spent the past year have we opened several hundred thousand jobs, but of course with more money. Entrepreneurial lending you all know more than 7 billion kuna realisations in crafts and small, medium-sized companies, here is only 7 million kuna planned to implement the programme next year. We're going to insist under 4 on major separations for local self-government units, or for municipalities and cities. What it looks like in positions we can read through help in municipalities and cities. 127 million kuna last year, this year 36 million kuna. In support of regional self-government 80 million kunas last year, 40 million kuna this year. We will insist on supporting capital investment especially drinking water, we know in which areas there are no gasification and irrigation. What is the state's sensitivity to local self-government? We can also see through high school. All 22 upgrades, recoverys, of which only 14 new ones. In primary schools 24 upgrades, rehabilitation and construction, and only 11 new. In a similar way, the state's attitude towards cities and municipalities, the position that speaks of current aid, has been reduced from 3 billion 432 million kuna in the last year to 2 billion 367 million kuna in this year or 31% less. These numbers are actually telling us that we're going to block the work of local self-government. We will also insist under the 5th on a more significant role of the Regional Development Fund. We have seen that the unequal development of regions within Croatia, we have seen that from the neighbouring county there are differences between gross domestic product 1:15 which is in any case unacceptable. We have noticed that the price of real estate in certain areas and regions in Croatia is growing dizzy. Of course, there's a rule where the state has a big investment while in other areas we have a dizzy property, migration and unemployment. It should be noted that there is less money in this Fund than last year. Under the 6th, we'll insist on more effects than privatisation. Transparently, we will ask that the expected billions and 500 million kunas we plan to raise from privatisation be invested in development, not in consumption, and we will demand that it be transparent in the budget. The creators of the Budget are infuriating us with great pessimism based on the debt transferred from last year also on the need to repay the debt of 17 billion kunas in this year for past periods and through some phenomena such as the dynamics of growth that was stopped at the end of last year, but I am asking myself and you whether it is always ahead of the elections and in every country in the world. But I wonder if we can build optimism. I'm sure we can build optimism on the fact that our social gross product grew three years in a row. Also on the fact that inflation and unemployment fell three years in a row, especially in profit tax figures that had been growing for 4 years, and only compared to last year have we had a higher growth rate of 10%. In public companies, companies in the public sector are no longer losing, and we expect an increase in dividends by as much as 492% compared to last year. I think that's the reason for optimism. But where I don't find optimism are positions on business expenses. I find it unclear and therefore intellectual and personal services rose from 499 million kuna last year to 753 million kuna or 51%. To me, it's unclear why overtime wages have increased from 16.7 million kuna to 49 million kuna or 194%? It's unclear to me why the rest of the unremarked operating expenses have increased from 73 million kuna to 180 million kuna or 40,145%? Also other services from 332 million kuna to 471 million kuna or 41%. Just these four positions of gentlemen I've counted, and believe me, there are other positions of the rest of the unremarkable, and I'd say the unnecessary amount is $533 million. The HSS Club advocates that we invest this money in development. It is a minimum of 533 million kuna as compared to last year, with the possibility of turning these positions around and actually starting Croatia because with this approach to spending taxpayers' money and growth rates of only 3.2% we certainly cannot start Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3935	Thank you very much, colleague Pacek. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Shuker. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3936	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, and I think when we talk about the rate of growth, I must repeat, it's not a matter of good wishes. You can't if you have a third quarter growth rate in the fourth quarter of 2003 3.6%. and which is practically 7 months old has a slight trend of decline, say that in 2004 you will have a rate of 7%. If we had done so, we would have sent such a non-serious message to the International Financial Public and be sure that it would have been practically impossible to ensure that all these debts were paid back. Very interesting that other financial institutions, primarily Croatia's National Bank, have been doing a 3.7% growth projection. But two and a half months ago. So, I repeat, the rate of growth is not, the rate of good wishes, but the rate of real opportunities in the economic environment to which the budget is brought. When we talk about agriculture, I'd just like to say that there are 800 million other incentives left. and you saw that today I didn't talk a lot about outstanding budget commitments in 2003. I only mentioned some things that were so picturesque that money was being spent, more because it didn't happen to us in the future, but for anyone to call, after all, I didn't mention any of my former ministers, nor did I think of it in the past two months. But I'd like to say one thing. If these obligations were not to be paid this year, more money could probably be allocated to certain projects. I'd like to say one more thing, I think it's malicious to claim that units of local self-government from the field of special state care have gotten so much less money. That's just not true. For one reason. You know that last year due to the provision of the Law and on the budget and on the financing of units of local self-government and on the Law, the amendment of the Income Tax Act in 7, 8 months are all units of local self-government due to the return of income tax in the area of special state care, and even in other areas of Croatia which have been less fiscally blocked because the return of income tax has simply blocked. Then it was passed an amendment to the law that all units of local self-government in the area of special state care were returned to the tax in the following year from the state budget. So, not from the budget units of local self-government. Also for local self-government units from mountainous and mountainous areas. So this year, according to the tax administration's assessment, a return of 160 million and 709 thousand kuna tax on income from local self-government units will be made. The estimated funds, thus ongoing aid under the 2003 state budget, were 127 million 454 thousand kuna. Then how can we say that we have cut 70 million funds, if instead of returning from local self-government units, income tax returns will be made out of a state budget of 33 million more than they were from last year's state budget to local self-government units. It's the easiest way to manipulate data. And especially with units of local self-government that are quite couture with income. So the tax return will be 160 million, last year the donation was 127 million, the difference is 33,000, 33 million kuna, and I personally think it was a good move by the former minister and the finance ministry which was so decided. That's what to say. Greater separation for local self-government units. Greater separation for local self-government units, a reduction in the revenue side, as covered by the expenditure side. There's a lot of things that a man can agree with here, but when they count, they go far too far, even if they say 530 million to get off the line. But I'd like to say one thing. We all forget that we have signed certain documents to join the European Union and that this requires a lot of, a lot of work, which, above all, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Science are looking for intellectual services. Are we going to stop certain scientific projects that are done by university professors who are not directly bound here? Bigger effect than privatisation. We could have done the same thing in 2000, planned a privatisation of several billion kunas, so in 11 months when it can't be realized, then you have to be in debt under unfavourable conditions and then next year you pay 300 million interest and no one. So it went to a real assessment, given the situation with the privatisation of INA, and with everything, it went to a real assessment that the real revenue from privatisation this year could be a billion 350 million. The more the privatisation revenues do not reduce the deficit, or increase it. The privatisation revenues only reduce the financing account, i.e. reduce the government's obligation to be in charge. And as for investment in privatisation money in development projects, I fully agree, that was the decision last year when the budget was made. But INA's privatisation money ended up in consumption, not in economic incentives. And we even said that the privatisation money would go through the Development and Employment Fund. However, INA's privatisation money did not go to economic development, and that was only months ago. And I'd like to mention something else, overtime. You know that at this point at tens of thousands of disputes is with employees in the state administration. First of all, you have to take the Croatian police, who, because of the nature of his work, has the need for overtime, and can not be redistributed. Are we going to get into new disputes or try to solve the problem of these overtime cases this year, and for those past disputes try to make a plea settlement. Or someone will say that Croatian police should not be paid overtime. If that's what anyone wants, let them say it in public about this pay phone. I personally don't want it, nor do I intend to have such a policy as to pay the police to lead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3937	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Before I give a word to my colleague, Pacek, who volunteered to correct the incorrect allegations, I am obliged to give one piece of information. That, in accordance with Article 207(2), The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. You may be interested in the number of persons reported for a 10-minute debate that's 76 reported plus you clubs. If we continue at this pace, I think we could finish the debate Saturday morning. Let's move on, fellow Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3938	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you haven't actually denied anything I've said. I'll remind you that I've read the figures, because I didn't speak politically, but economically on page 5, where it says, ongoing aid within the general state last year 3 billion 432 million kuna, this year 2 billion 367 million kuna. Or 31%. Less. So, 31% less for cities and municipalities. It's a notorious fact. Secondly, it is possible to achieve a growth rate regardless of the past period. Because 99 years was a negative growth rate, and all the years behind that 2, 3, and over 4%. So that's possible. But apparently the past government proved it, especially some sectors of movement were very good. So I suggest that these 533 million kunas that are also here on page 4 through the increase in intellectual services of unremarked expenditures and that we invest in development, so we'll have a higher growth rate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3939	My colleague Pacek's time is up, but I haven't seen a table with suggestions anywhere. I must warn you, you're all a bit of a abuser of the tables you're raising. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of Club Libre, Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3940	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Gentlemen, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I would first give some two small or large procedural remarks regarding our debate on this budget. The first is the fact that we read the budget in one reading, so we adopt it in one reading. I spoke of it when the agenda was adopted and it was the President's answer that it was a good practice. It's really about practice. This practice is a long-standing practice. This practice is written in our Rules of Procedure but it is not a good practice. This is bad practice and the budget is the most important document of the state. If there aren't any special circumstances, we hope there won't be any. Therefore, the budget should be adopted in two readings. This way of adopting the budget means, in fact, that the Parliament’s opinion in the first reading after the debate does not matter. The government made a deal. And after that, there is no longer really an opportunity for the Parliament to change its proposal by the basis of a parliamentary debate, and then, in the second reading, it is possible for amendments to correct the second proposal of the Government. Therefore, I think that this Rules of Procedure and this poor practice that the President of the Parliament calls good practice should be interrupted. And the other thing doesn't matter either. Good practice has always been that so far for the last ten years, we have always had parallel depictions of the previous year and the year for which we adopt the budget. That's unfortunately not there this year. It used to be even a few years back so that it can track policies in individual resolutions and the overall policy, the state's budgetary policy in a few years back, it absolutely has no excuse for that to happen. And I think that good practice should continue. And now something about the general indicators of this state budget. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Ivo Sanader, said that this government will not continue the dynamics of the growth of the external debt of the Republic of Croatia, and unfortunately all indicators that can be seen from this budget say it will, that this government will continue the dynamics of the growth of the external debt of the Republic of Croatia. If the budget deficit is planned to be 4.5%, and if the privatisation revenues planned last year to 3 billion 250, this year they are planned to go to a billion 350, so 2 billion kunas less, then this clearly means that there will be an increase in borrowing. It's a very simple logic. Whether it will be external borrowing or internally it is absolutely in this context an irrelevant issue but with these indicators of deficits and growth of course of gross national product and with this large budget it is absolutely clear that there must be borrowing because, as I said, incomes that could potentially or certainly reduce these revenues from privatisation decrease by about 2 billion kuna, which of course is not only an aspect of the deficit of the budget or external debt, but I think one very important in my opinion is a negative economic indicator. Privatisation is a process that, even during the term of office of the last government, was not fast enough. This number of billions and 350 million kuna says there will be a further slowdown of privatisation and with the slowdown of privatisation it is difficult to expect the dynamicization of economic growth. I'd say something about debts that are so often spoken of, and then every day out of some closets, they come out of some kind of skeleton. I think that in such a way that after a meeting held between the former and current government representatives absolutely unseriously manifests the behaviour of the authorities if any dispute after a month could be entered into all the data, I suppose no data was hidden. Therefore, the conversation with which all participants came out in line with the high level of actually respect for each other and the same attitudes afterwards re-emerges in the second month when the data should have occurred before, as the cabinet finance minister says. So I would just go back a little bit to the past, which is that in 2000, the debt, the actual debt, not loans that would appear as debt at some point, but the actual debt was 9 billion kuna, and that about 2.5 billion were debts for the insurance of failed banks, so nearly $2 billion was the debt at the time, so if this were true now, 7 billion or 6 would still be twice as much, but I think these issues must be settled in the first month of the term and after the meeting if such a meeting was needed with the representatives of the former government, and not after that, re-extracting some debts and constantly entering actually counterproductive controversy as if an alibi for what doesn't seem to be sought out. Of course, in terms of repaying debt, external debt to this government is more difficult than the last government, but something should also be said which is both explaining and facilitating. The main comes not only from those tasks that have been done over the past four years but also from those that were done before 2000, and it should be said that in this sense some jobs have been done, some costs, large costs that this government will not have or will have to a significantly smaller extent. To assume that the costs of war-damaged areas, destroyed areas of the Republic of Croatia, this means the restoration of these areas and buildings, houses and apartments will be significantly lower because in the past ten years a lot has been done in this regard and we can expect that the state budget will be less burdened in this regard than it has been for the past four or eight years. Similarly, it should be said that one major reform, which is a reform of the Ministry of Defence, is in its second part, that the largest financial and most demanding part of that reform has passed what is of course seen from the severance data for members of the Croatian Army. So these are large amounts, about half a billion kunas that are smaller than they were last year. And of course, we expect it to disappear completely next year. Of course, when it comes to all this, when it comes to debt, it should be said that the savings of citizens over the past four years have increased by almost $10 billion more. Citizens with their savings in our banks or banks based in the Republic of Croatia can repay all their external debt when we talk about 24 or I don't know how many billions of dollars of foreign debt. It has at least that long of citizens, but as well as saving citizens has increased by about ten billion dollars. It is often forgotten when it is presented inexplicable in my opinion of a catastrophic assessment, which we could hear here today in this sense. And it should not be forgotten that over the past four years he has been in pension funds II. The pillar, therefore, what is not paid, which is capitalised savings, accumulated somewhere around 5 billion kuna, that's big money. That money was also supposed to come out of something. So these are all the things that say in some way that this government, or today's position in this segment, is better than it was before, but of course we need to reflect the difficulty of this government, which is that just paying off the principal is the happy fact that these are the principals today, not only interest as it was before, so we're starting to pay off the principal, but that this payment is considerably higher than it was in the past years. And now a few things about certain resors. I have to say something, even if it's not in my party's programming focus on the program, or the Department of Defense. During 2000, 2001 and 2002 very strict austerity measures we came in 2002 to see that the share of salaries in the budget, after more than 70% of the long-term ones came to 65%. And our goal was to get below 60% or even 50%. And now that we've created assumptions that this happens, by holding the budget to about 2% of the barrel of the national product, there's a drop in the defence ministry's budget for 505 million kuna. Gorki 505 million kuna and a return on salary costs to over 70%. You can't talk to anyone who understands the defense systems about the quality of their defence system if they've paid a salary in the defence ministry's budget more than 70%. It can range from 40% to 60%, and then it can be talked about internal quality. But when it's above 70%, it's all about you, that's how you treat that segment of the administration. And it's absolutely inadmissible that this is happening. We have gained the conditions for modernization, of course, first for better maintenance of equipment, for training and then for modernisation. And now that we've gotten those terms, when we've saved up those funds by reform, those funds are running away, they're cut off from the Department of Defense. And it absolutely can't be good, not only because of our goal of approaching NATO, which will strongly disqualify us in this political goal that we have and about which there is no dispute, but also with regard to the role that the Armed Forces have in one country. At the same time, it's a security reserve not only in the event of a war, and it's not good when the army's underpaid and the army's poor. It needs to be emanated from the outside, towards the civil sector, and it cannot be if this army is poorly equipped and, of course, poorly trained. And so it's absolutely not good what's going on. For example, there is no speech at all about starting with the growth of investment in the Ministry of Defence's housing fund, regardless of how the housing fund will be distributed, but it is certainly one of the urgent issues. Military equipment in the Croatian Air Force, proposed in 2003, amounted to 212 million kuna, rebalancing in 2003, drops to 87 and now proposes 33 million kuna. It is said there will be no such large investment, there was a newspaper inscription from unnamed sources of the ministry as it was before. And what was before was only necessary to maintain the elemental capabilities of the armed forces sector. And the total military equipment from 297 million kuna in last year falls to 193 million kuna. And that's something we absolutely can't understand. And when it comes to the growth of the Croatian military industry, then you should know that you cannot have a military industry unless you have domestic references. And with this, you can't actually have domestic references, therefore, this is more less if this is how the end of the Croatian military industry is held. And finally something about the issue of science and education as the most important programme goal of LIBRE. There was only an increase in the education and science budget to the extent that it actually increased the gross national product. Therefore, none of our aim is to reach European averages by increasing the increase of over 10% per year, and especially to be at the top of those countries in Europe that stand out for education and science. And that's absolutely something we can't accept. Based on this agreement, there will be no increase in scientific recruits. At the level of scandal and calling for the National Foundation for Science, with 50 million falling to just 12 million kunas. And this is really not the way to run Croatia. I understand, of course, social sensitivity. The Prime Minister said that according to these proposals, the budget to correct injustices against Croatian defenders and restore their dignity. But I have to say, it's not necessary to make money. Often, where there's money, there's less justice and less dignity. And this money, which is projected over 2 billion kuna for social expenditure, was to be proposed for the segment of science, higher education, primary and secondary education and then could be confirmed the thesis that Croatia wants to start. With this draft budget, unfortunately, I must say, Croatia is stopping.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3941	Thank you very much, colleague Radosh. Information or suggestion if you accept it. Given the large number of people reported for this debate, which is quite expected, we suggest that we work without the usual break from 13.30 to 15 hours. So that each of you in that period when you're organized goes to lunch and comes back to work normally. Do you accept such a proposal? No one's against it. Thank you very much. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations. First up is a colleague of Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3942	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'd beg, I'm at the beginning... I was thinking of correcting Mr. Secretary's allegations since he said so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But no, since it's strong, now listen to this one sentence, it's very important. I appreciate it very much, and I'm glad.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3943	... My colleagues warn me to break the Rules of Procedure if I give you my word now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the three of us didn't see you lift the plate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3944	And it's not my fault you didn't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3945	I don't know. Three witnesses we can't find.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3946	There's a witness. Here are two witnesses.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3947	I'm sorry, colleague Lucin, we tried.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3948	But, Madam Vice President, you violated Rule 209.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3949	Thank you very much for your warning. The correcting of the incorrect quote was reported by colleague Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3950	I thank Madam Vice President, I must correct Mr. Radosh's incorrectly repeated allegations that the debts of the skeletons we're taking out of the closet would then be associated with something dead. Debts are a very lively concern of this government and the entire Croatian people for several generations the next and great burden on our backs. So I'm correcting that assumption. And what I'm saying is that all the public listens well to what we're talking about like to know how much we've done in the last four years, and we're in charge. For every one of them will bear the burden.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3951	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The next correction is colleague Fran Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3952	Madam Vice President, given the large number of incorrect allegations I'm going to concentrate on one that seems important to me. And that's fellow MP Rados said that the government's proposal is an increase in wages of 70%. This is totally incorrect because it is a result of the former government's decision, so it is exclusively the result of inherited decisions that this government must respect and want to respect. So it's a completely incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3953	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3954	Mr. Representative Matušić did not correct my incorrect allegations. I said that wages make up 70% of the budget. The article, therefore, spoke, correcting the incorrect allegations and not correcting the incorrect allegations. So he hurt the Rules of Procedure. I was talking about the wages being 70% I didn't say why it was so and who was the blood. I said it was because there was a budget cut.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3955	Another abuse plate. I'm asking you to mention the article you're calling on every time. Let's move on with the discussion of the National Minorities Club. Excuse me, excuse me. He always has the right to speak. Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic. Here you go, Minister. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3956	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In short, in this report alone, I would like to look a little bit at the part of the presentation of the distinguished representative Joza Rados in the part where he gives his view of the state budget in part of the defence ministries. The fact is that in the nominal amount of the budget foreseen for the Ministry of Defence there are 770 million kunas less than last year. However, for the sake of proper information, I will be free to expose you and the public to this 770 million. And how certain changes, i.e. the effects of the armed forces reform so far, are reflected in this year's budget. Separated from the MORHa system, 7 grand and 996 people. Which are mostly severances and paid off. On average, over the year, we estimate that compared to last year, we will have 5 thousand salaries less if we look at the staff that have already been allocated. Which gives 426 million kunas a small cost on salaries. The Guard supplement has been reduced, with an effect of 40 million kuna or a total annual savings of 466 million kuna. Normally, there are certain increases in the wage. So an increase in the base for the salary calculation of 4.3% is an increase of 113 million kuna. The increase in the base of other provisions of the collective agreement is 68 million. The increase in the basic salary allowance for the rhubarb officials and tenants is estimated to be the obligation of 20 million kunas at year level. Either a 201 million kuna increase or when beaten with savings, the total reduction in salary mass in 2004 is 265 million kuna. The MORA credit obligations so far have now been transferred directly to the Ministry of Finance in the budget structure, with an impact of 160 million kuna. And the fire protection that went beyond last year's budget burden on the MORH for 30 million kuna is also in total 80 million as regards the MORH directly secured by the Ministry of Finance. The rest is savings on material costs. The main headquarters of the armed forces has actively taken up its role in preparing this budget. And they predict that on the savings of municipal fees, because we plan to propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a study on the separation of non-perspective properties that only cost the MORH and are no longer in function of defence and are not necessary. The reduction of fuel and oil, not the consumption of unspective outdated vehicles, is our projection that we will achieve savings of 257 million kuna this year. Or bought at a material cost of 475 million kuna, which, with these up 505 million and on salaries, amounts to 770 million kuna. Normally, we plan to continue the process of detaching personnel from the MORH system in this year. So at the Ministry of Finance, the new 170 million kunas for severances were provided. Which will also relieve the position of cost on salaries, and the thing isn't as black as it wants to be displayed. Normally, as the defence minister, I have to look at the defence ministry sector in the overall financial capabilities of the entire society. We do not want to be seen as an isolated category, we understand and support the government's view that the budget deficit is held at 4 and a half percent. In this part of MORA financing, certain development activities are also envisaged, but no longer the spending of MORH funds on those projects that are not on this perspective. And there have been such investments, but normally if someone is particularly interested in it, they can get full information in MorHu. Since this is still a public session, he wouldn't go into details. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3957	I thank the Minister of Defence, Mr Ronečević. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Croatian Government, Mrs Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3958	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3959	After. I didn't see it. It's you. Your Honor, Mr. Radosh. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3960	Just for a little while, I picked up the tile on time, and I won't be long. So in order to avoid confusion, there have been no projects or investments in development projects in the last four years. Which would not comply with NATO standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3961	The word has been made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3962	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I came forward because of the findings of Mr. Rados's distinguished representative who commented on what Prime Minister Ivo Sanader said in the opening section about restoring the dignity of Croatian defenders and members of their families. So I'd like to see here for clarification and to further discuss a few facts. Mr. Rados said that dignity to defenders does not necessarily have to be returned to money. So I'd like to say a few facts about that finding. We, as initially predicted this year, are beginning to pay back debts to Croatian defenders from 97. That's 149 million kunas that are foreseen in this year's budget. And from July 1st to the end of this year, another 90 million kuna per debt, i.e. one debt per year, according to the existing 2001 law. It's about that financial translation that wasn't made. That's one thing. But I'd also like to say what's been done in these two months. It's at the return of that dignity that counsel Radosh spoke of. Therefore, amendments have been made to the Regulation on the determination of the percentage of damage to the bodies of the Croatian military disabled from the Homeland War in order to abolish the application of that famous regulation, i.e. the test, of the MMPI2 questionnaire. The working group was then appointed to draft a new programme of psychosocial and medical assistance to the victims of the Homeland War of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Then the public was made aware of the suicide rate in the defence population, so it is higher by three to five times than in the rest of the population. The Law amending the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families relating to psychosocial care for Croatian defenders and members of their families and corrected injustice against Croatian defenders legally sentenced for a prison sentence of more than six months has been passed. Then a new law on the rights of Croatian defenders is under way. She just started working for a task force. A proposal for a new regulation relating to the 100% disabled first group was then drawn up, so the final status of the custodian, i.e. the guardian they are entitled to, and the funds in the State budget for this year were secured. Then a decision was taken to appoint a flag-making expert group to remind the prisoners and the missing in the Croatian Parliament. Then the government also appointed an expert commission to assist persons indicted for or suspected of war crimes before the International Court in The Hague. The government regulation reduced the price by 30% of the purchase of apartments in areas of special state interest in cities and municipalities with less than 10,000 inhabitants and the government also decided to give Croatian defenders the opportunity to move into apartments until they are creditworthy and to pay rent for it. So here, it was done in these less than two months at the return of dignity to Croatian defenders and members of their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3963	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor. The correcting of the incorrect allegations was reported by the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3964	I'd just like to remind you that pensions are in line with 1.1.98, the difference is paid means it's only 97 years old, but it seems to me that this is a slightly larger amount because, in the meantime, it happened that there are 5100 pensions today, that some people who don't have status are either a defender or a disabled person, so you should see who spent that money and what amounts it is because it can be achieved to save more money from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3965	Thank you. In the last second, MP Jozo Radoš called.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3966	Mr. Vice President, the Deputy Prime Minister said that there was a right to injustice in respect of Croatian defenders who were legally sentenced to prison sentences, which is why they lost some rights. I think it wasn't about injustice, it's a position equal to all the other citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3967	I thank the esteemed representative, Joza Radosh. On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, the word has a distinguished representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3968	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the government and the Parliament. Budgeting is the most important act of every parliament. Some parliaments have been working on it all year, some more months. We have traditionally brought it into one breath by reading, this year, and under the pressure that the country is in a bad economic situation. We also bring it in context, but let me say "partoccracies", and I am speaking in general, because a pure proportional system cannot have a different product than affirmation of party interests over those representatives understood as transporters of the problem of a particular environment. Here we exempt, of course, regional parties that are more naturally focused on the development of a particular area. We representatives of national minorities in that case in many other cases do not, but in that case we are fortunate because we are chosen directly, which means we have a narrow but well-known population that we represent directly. For this we fought for the entire past term and eventually we got the status that allows us to like it or not, the greater power of negotiation. We would like to stress that our freedom of ideological discipline is our pragmatism if someone wants to define it that way, dictated by the situation in which we find ourselves or the need to survive and live as a community. Now I'm going to say something that some may not like, which is that not only Jews, Roma, Italians and Germans were the first in, and the other two after World War II were the subject of ethnic cleansing, but they were Serbs in the first half of the 1990s. No academic or ideological debate will disprove the facts based on pure figures. I stress this not to open up any controversy that has no place at all here, because what has passed is, and I am only talking about it so that it does not happen again, but in order to make it clear that we members of national minorities are not today any folklore group that needs to be kept in the window for European integration, but still the living population that is trying to do so and remain, and in order to make it possible to apply all the instruments of positive discrimination. The funding of national minorities can be seen in two ways, jointly and separately. Together, we can conclude that the increase in funding for transfers to national minorities' associations of 10%, although it does not solve the problems of these associations, or national minorities that they represent, are at the same time greater than the total increase in the budget improves the situation of these associations, and we will support such a proposal as the National Minorities Club. On the other hand, the situation with school textbooks in the languages of national minorities has been disastrous for many years that has led the National Minorities Club to propose on the basis of an analysis by the Ministry of Education of Amendments, which increases the resources for textbooks by as many as the experts from the Ministry of Education have said by 2 million and 500 thousand kunas in order to at least print those textbooks that are in preparation. National minority schools work on textbooks that are mostly either photocopied or when it comes to my minority with textbooks coming from abroad, from Italy. In the particular problems of national minorities, we place those problems relating to the Roma and ask the Government to show how much the resources are totaled for the implementation of the national programme for Roma, because this is not evident and whether this reflects the needs set out in that programme. Our club seriously doubts such a thing and feels that there is not enough resources and we want to stress that we are concerned because Roma are in a particularly invisible situation and that they are the least protected minority group. In terms of special rights, I stress, the highlighted rights of some minorities, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Italy and others that fail to protect themselves, and they refer to bilingualism which, for example, would have to respect state institutions, such as the Croatian Roads, because there are no signposts or names on state roads, or the name of roads which are bilingual, which have been so for decades. The Hungarian minority also emphasises the fact that there are no traces of the implementation of the 1995 agreement and Bosniaks also have certain infrastructure and existential problems that they believe have not yet been initiated. Serbian representatives will speak for themselves about the problems of their community but I would like to point out that we have spoken, since they are members of our club too, that we are in harmony with their problems and that we sign everything that Gajica will later say. As we all know, HRT is not dependent on the budget but on the subscription, but we representatives of Croatian citizens in this House have made it possible for the monopolies to have their only subscription, so we repeat our requests for specialized TV shows organised in regional studies by editors and journalists from members of national minorities who would have to be financed from the legally written Pluralism Development Fund. This means that we politicians do not control, of course, television, but its public, which includes a minority component. We want to know if HRT will respect it or whether it will have to fall to the state budget. I hope not, that he will finally respect what the law says. With this in mind, we stress the difficult position of the Italian Radio Rivers, which is marginalised and penalized in terms of any form of advancement, we have received performances. I stress that we Italians in Croatia should not be in professional or any other form less treated than others, and this applies to all other national minorities. I refer these words to Mr. Galic and Mr. Radic's leadership. Finally, something about the separatist problems relating to my Italian minority, and which are resolved by this budget at least partially based on the signing of a contract between Mr. Sanader and me with the support of the Italian Union. I would like to emphasise that a special article in the Ministry of Culture and Education has been solved by two past injustices, the first fall on the conscience of former Minister Ljilje Vokic, who, apart from having a special attitude towards minorities, was also a special mood towards my environment, towards Istria. I'm going to set an example that we've solved with this Budget Proposal. She abolished salaries for Italian language professors in Croatian schools in Istria, professors who taught Italian as a language, another language, or as a language of the social environment, none later improved it, although the law since 2000 found that in bilingual municipalities and cities each Croatian school must have an education in Italian. So there was teaching, there was a professor but this professor had to pay for municipalities, or cities that had this bilingual statute and not the Ministry like all the other professors. In other words, the law requires but does not pay. Like he said... "my ideas, your gasoline." Our friends, our exorcist brothers planted their backs and paid the 76 professors in solidarity. I publicly thank them. Today we return those funds, and that debt where it should be in the budget, and we return these professors to dignity because so far they've been some sort of alien in the classrooms, because they didn't have the same position as the other professors. In addition, we pay back 7 million and 600,000 kuna to Istrian cities, meaning a million euros a year to use them to solve other problems and, as we know, there is progress, from pensioners to young unemployed. And finally, the edit, a publishing house that publishes a daily newspaper of a two-week magazine and a lot of specialized editions and cultural ones in the past, has been repeatedly scrutinized by various decisions, let's just remember when she got six billion kunas to donate a political fine because she was then taken off. Today they live with miserable, miserable wages and even with the help of the Italian government, which still gives some money barely manage to pay very low wages and have very little money in general. By increasing by one million kuna a year, we allow them that if they do not work normally, then one minimum of dignity and we are satisfied with those decisions resulting from the Agreement that we have signed. Finally, we have a sports hall which is also in Pula, which is also funded by 80, 90% of the Italian government, but we were looking for a remainder of 2 million kunas from the Ministry of Education, or the Government, and we hope to get them because now, we've given the amendment because so far we've only got one piece of it, one million kuna. With the belief that the proposed amendments will be adopted, the National Minority Club will support the State Agreement offered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3969	I thank the esteemed representative Furia Radin. We do if I'm not mistaken for two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3970	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, in this Assembly, all kinds of sayings have been heard in these 15 years since the restoration of parliamentaryism in Croatia until today, so we heard that Croatia was an aggressor to Bosnia and Herzegovina, so we heard all sorts of things. However, what my colleague Furio Radin said today and what you've been keeping quiet is inadmissible. Among other things, counterpart Radin said that ethnic cleansing of Serbs in Croatia was conducted in the early 1990s. You, your colleague Milinović, have in time tied yourself with chains when you defended the dignity of Croatian defenders and today as vice president of the Croatian Parliament, you have not been able to say a very sharp warning and interrupted the presentation of colleagues Radin because it is one of the most cruel qualifications and slanders in the Croatian Parliament and the most severe violation of the Declaration of the Homeland War and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, if you HDZ have to endure this, then it is all the honor of such cooperation with national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3971	Well, I have to admit I didn't hear if Mr. Agent Radin said that, I'll listen to the phonogram later and react. I warn you that you have hurt the Rules of Procedure, too, because you have not listed the article of the Rules of Procedure to which you have called. For the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3972	So Article 214 paragraph 1 of the 5th and 6th indent is injured that you, as chairman, should have given Mr. Radin a warning because these are serious insults for us Croatian party representatives, Croatian defenders and all Croatian defenders, and he also violated the Declaration of the Homeland War that this high home has brought. And I pray that such things will not be missed in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3973	I think it is in line with the first possible violation of the Rules of Procedure, which Mr. Djapic said. I said once again we'd listen to the phonogram and react. The correcting of the incorrect allegations was also reported by the distinguished representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3974	Mr. Vice President and my dear colleague, Radin, I will try to quote you. The quote begins: “According to the ethnic cleansing that took place after World War II, the Italians, the Germans, the Jews, the ethnic cleansing of the Serbs took place in 1990.” It's not, the quote ends. That's not true, Mr. Radin. In 1990, there was cleaning, ethnic cleansing of Croatian people and not Serbs in formerly occupied areas now for the benefit of all of us free state areas of the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3975	I thank the distinguished representative Zdenko Babić-Petricevic. We've exhausted the breach of the Rules of Procedure with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3976	Mr. Vice President, I don't think we can continue this session and ask for a 20-minute break for the Croatian Party of Rights Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3977	How much did you say 10?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3978	15 minutes is fine. 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3979	A 20-minute stand was requested by the HSP Club. I'm setting a 20-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3980	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. Please let us overcome this situation in the most reasonable way. HSP advocates' club asked for a break. HSP president, Mr. Anto Djapic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3981	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian party club called for a break, because we could not stop and without consulting to allow one of the most difficult qualifications ever given in the Croatian Parliament when it comes to the creation of the Croatian state and when it comes to the Homeland War. In the name of the National Minority Club, Mr Furio Radin said, among other things, that ethnic cleansing of Germans, Hungarians, Austrians and others was conducted in Croatia after 45 years, and that the 90 early years of ethnic cleansing of Serbs in Croatia was spent. I would like to remind the Croatian Parliament that this high house adopted the Declaration of the Homeland War on 13 October 2000, because the cause, therefore, was much, but the reason for the adoption of this declaration in the Croatian Parliament was one similar statement which said that Croatia was an aggressor in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think there is no need to remind the representatives of the Croatian opposition at the time as we all reacted sharply, not only the opposition at the time, and today part of the former opposition of the government, so the Croatian Democratic Community, but the entire then rule, except for one party and reacted in a way that is unacceptable to treat Croatia as an aggressor in Bosnia and Herzegovina, let alone that Croatia was not defined as a defence war and that it was a victim of aggression committed to Croatia. What we heard today, I say, in a peaceful uniform voice, because the quieter it is said, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, in order to get the attention of the MPs, so that it remains written that it has not responded, and has been accused of practically Croatian people, that ethnic cleansing of Serbs in Croatia has been carried out in the 1990s. If only my colleague Furio Radin would say that for himself, the reaction of our club would be more casual. Because it's not the first time he's said something like that, not so decadent, but the danger of what he said on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club. and we were looking for a break because of this, in order to possibly, possibly by acting or reacting to the leading party in the Croatian state and Croatian government, we also get the position of the party related to the Club's statements, which gives support to more coalition support to the ruling party for the behaviour of the authorities in Croatia. If we legalise this speech in the Croatian Parliament, which will have representatives of national minorities saying that ethnic cleansing of Serbs in Croatia was conducted in Croatia in the early 1990s, then it is questionable the legality and legitimacy of the Homeland War and everything that is considered to be in Croatia through a declaration that I have in my hand about the Homeland War and spoken. This story of reminders and reproofs is of no interest to us, but we are more interested as a party in a dangerous situation in which we are going to the Croatian Parliament for a revisionism when it comes to the Homeland War, and that is what no Club in the Croatian Parliament can cross over. I can understand as the party's president who's been through a lot in these 14, 15 years from now and across the back of my own party I've learned, which means tactics and strategies and pragmatism, and politics on a good scale. So I can also understand part of the humanity, tolerance, leniency in statements like this, but there's a limit below which you can't go, that line may have been crossed long ago, and today it's said it would be open, decidated, clearly put on behalf of eight representatives who make up one club. We often know as strangers and honor unargumented that we have something against our minorities in Croatia. We have nothing against any minority in Croatia, though. I will not say that they are goods in Croatia, but that Croatia is the fact that they are, which is respected through constitutional laws, and through all the positive regulations that the Croatian Parliament has passed, and that is what we stand behind from day to day in Croatia. But the fact that we stand behind the affirmation of the position of national minorities in Croatia cannot stand to agree to the affirmation of the revision of the Homeland War, i.e. turning the defence war in Croatia into a civil war, which is practically explicitly said in the speech of Representative Furi Radin. For that reason, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I expect as you said we should get out of this. I am to get us out of it, but not without a clear fence from what's been said here, from fellow Furia Radin. We would also disagree if other representatives of the national minorities did not fence from the statement of counterpart Furia Radina. Of course, the ruling party would also have to state its position on this, as this will, of course, depend on the continued behaviour of the Croatian Party's advocates' club. Therefore, according to the Declaration of Homeland War paragraph 7. The House of Representatives of the Croatian National Assembly then called on all citizens of state and social institutions, trade unions, associations and media, and obliges all officials and all state bodies of the Republic of Croatia to protect the fundamental values and dignity of the Homeland War on those principles, as a provision for our civilization future. Croatian society can rest only on the principles of justice, and the principles that he outlined just before his colleague Furio Radin are not the principles of justice, but the principles of distorting the newer Croatian history. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3982	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Constitution has in its original foundations clear and precise provisions on which the Croatian State, the Republic of Croatia, is based. Contrary to what foundations she rests with others. In an extended sentence without context, without any historical definitions, labels, causes and consequences, Radin has opened up one topic that has nothing to do with this budget, which was completely out of context, I regret that the chairman of the Parliament has not responded and has not warned him to speak outside the context, to speak about things that are not in the context of the adoption of the state budget. This sentence, which reads, I will quote it according to the phonogram of my colleagues, Radina, says: "I will now say something that some may not like, which is that not only Jews, Roma, Italians and Germans the first U, and the other two, after World War II, were subject to ethnic cleansing but also Serbs in the first half of the 1990s." The pronunciation of a series of these courts and grades without putting into the context of historical events, politics from the first world war to the first half of the 1990s without any further explanations created this situation. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if my colleague Furio Radin wanted to present this, then he was obliged to explain all the important elements of his statement. It is an unquestionable fact, but what does this have to do with the budgetary debate and today's Croatian policy that in World War II, Jews were exposed to the Holocaust, the Ustasha death camps of Jasenovac, Stara Gradiška, Jadovna and others, and this is an indisputable historical fact which this modern Croatian state and condemned and determined according to this regime and that policy, it also expressed in the original foundations of its Constitution. Both Croatia and this Croatian Parliament, and this Croatian state has nothing and does not bear responsibility for the crimes and crimes of one regime. Cardinal Stepinac also condemned the mass crime of the Holocaust, ethnic cleansing and genocide that was committed to the Jews in Jasenovac during World War II, which was also committed according to the Roma, Croatians anti-fascists and Serbs. We have also defined ourselves in our history, this history of genocide committed after World War II by the communist Yugoslav authorities who collectively persecuted and planned the extermination of entire ethnic groups, by the German People's Group, who, as a collective culprit, had been placed in concentration camps near Osijek, Đakov, Josipovac and a vast number of innocent people, only because they were members of the German People's Group without any responsibility, without any court only picked up by their last names and collected only because they were members of the German People's Group of small children whose numbers were lost by indifference, typhoids, diseases. The same thing happened that the communist government was conducting ethnic cleansing over Italians in Istria and Dalmatia. But the same thing happened after 20 years of terrorism and genocide and ethnic cleansing of the Croatian people and Croatians lived in Istria and Dalmatia. That, fellow Furio Radin, should have explained these historical facts if you had already entered into that statement. It was also necessary to explain the historical fact that a large part of the Croatian people was carried out after the end of World War II after Bleiburg on the crossroads only because of their belonging to the Croatian people, which resulted in hundreds of thousands killed on these numerous crossing stations from Bleiburg to Osijek, to Skopje, Vrsac. There is no place in Croatia where not many groups of Croatian young men and girls were killed without any guilt, without a court, without any responsibility only in a frenzy, vengeful campaign. In the Homeland War and the 1990s, ladies and gentlemen MPs, a statement without any explanation and context of Mr. Radin that Serbs in the first half of the 1990s were the subject of ethnic cleansing, without explanation, without reason, clearly opening and suggesting that one of the most credible responses was linked to the fates of these other nations and ethnic groups that were victims of programmed and planned ethnic genocide by different state policies suggest that Serbs in the first half of the 1990s were victims of ethnic cleansing of Croatian state policy. Let's remember, ladies and gentlemen, it wasn't a long time ago. It's all in our collective memory and memory. In the early 1990s, after the start of the "balvan revolution" and the declared "balvan revolution" and the start of the armed rebellion, the leader of the Serbian rebellion urged Serbs in Croatia to leave all areas of Croatia and to move to areas that were under political control at the time already organised insurgent parts of the Serb community in Croatia that are now being tried in The Hague. It was not the Croatian state policy that had planned, encouraged and undertaken the ethnic cleansing of Serbs in Croatia in the first half of the 1990s, as suggested and as one of the possible readings and decryption of this statement by colleagues Radina. A policy of ethnic genocide from areas that were either under occupation or even when they were under the protection of the United Nations of all non-Serb living has been implemented in the quarter of Croatia. And that's a fact, an incontrovertible truth. "Storm", before "Storm", the president of the Republic of Tudjman had for hours and hours urged Serbs not to leave the areas they were in but it was in vain because orders had already been made, orders were issued and evacuation plans to get Serbs out of those areas that were subject to "Storms" to get out of what had been done. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is not good for this budgetary debate from fellow Furia Radina to go with such, I would say, inconclusive qualifications without context, without the sign of historical circumstances that have occurred in these premises since 918 and to this day which allow for such reactions and such interpretations I expect that it would be reasonable, wise and responsible for my colleague Furio Radin to address the Croatian Parliament and to explain his statements precisely and responsibly, politically and humanly. He's a colleague of Radin's. ... Yes, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I agree, it's not a question of places of any warning, of any kind, of reprimand or of anything. This should be resolved in a correct way not to lead to, the Croatian Parliament in a situation that needs to react and redefine some undeniable historical facts and that it should be reacted, read and imputed to any collective responsibility. Comrade Djapic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3983	Just one sentence, Mr. President. It's not just Furia Radin, he was talking on behalf of the club, that's what caused us and this kind of reaction. Because if only only my colleague Radin did it, we learned it from him. However, he spoke on behalf of the club, representing 8 representatives of the Croatian Parliament. And that's why this thing needs to be cleared up whether he spoke for himself or for eight MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3984	Comrade Pupovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3985	If there's a problem with that, I'll stay here, just seemed to.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3986	Can I get you from the seat or from the pay phone? My colleagues and colleagues, let's get over this situation quickly, let's not get involved in any discussion, I think we're clear on this. I expect, I say, I repeat Mr Furi Radin to address the Croatian Parliament as well. Here you go, fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3987	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, before the President of the Parliament, Mr. Shakespeare, responded from the President's desk to a speech by my colleague, Radina, I thought I'd say only two things. First, no matter how many qualifications we seem to have no place, some words do not have room in this House, in order to ban them must have very strong motives. And those elements were said to be heard to limit freedom of expression here in this House, contrary to freedom of expression in the Croatian public, as far as I'm concerned they cannot be accepted. Secondly, as far as the scale of the matter is concerned, so what the debate began, and I was hoping Mr. President that the debate would not begin because today is a budget debate. This, both for members of the Serb community and for members of the entire Croatian nation, is a painful topic of war in the 1990s and the whole 20th century, as stated here, could be said of course, but I am quite sure that as you are, most of you are convinced that today in this place, not only is this not a topic of the agenda, but from the respect of the feelings of all who were victims of war in Croatia, in the area of the former Yugoslavia and those who in their memories or in their lifetime still bear the horrors of wars in the 20th century, governments and regimes in the 20th century in order to approach this kind of debate, if someone wanted to join in this Assembly, it would be important to organise it differently. And she did not, in the right sense, start in Croatia. I'm pretty sure it won't even start from the Croatian Parliament. And that, if it starts from the Croatian Parliament, it will have neither academic nor scientific character, but it will only have a political character and that it is the only way that it can be here. And if you allow me, Mr. President, as representative of the Serbian National Community in Croatia, whose voters and whose members are quite sure to monitor this debate if they have the possibility, or they will follow in a transmitted form and certainly have their own feelings and views on these topics and with all respect to it, but at the same time, with respect to the protection of what is before us, which is why we have gathered these days, to discuss and then to vote on the budget and to create assumptions, one of the most vital assumptions not only for the work of this Parliament but also for the State to return to this topic. I ask you if you can understand this call, it applies to colleagues from HSP as well as to colleagues from other parties. With all due respect to the feelings that can motivate them in this, which all others can motivate but I think we have a duty to respect these feelings. It's more important at this point than many other big words we could say here. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3988	Thank you. Comrades and colleagues, let us be truly at the level of serious responsibility. Comrade Furio Radin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3989	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, I will speak from a place to make it clear that I speak for myself, not on behalf of the National Minorities Club, though. I want to say that I take responsibility for what I said earlier on my own behalf, so that I release the responsibilities of other colleagues from the national minorities, some have not even participated in previous discussions. So I'm taking over that part, just that part, because the other part is okay with it, that part that's spoken from the pay phone, I'm taking that part as my responsibility. And I believe that the sentence, respecting all possible feelings and sensitivity to this problem which, all Croatian citizens, have, I believe, was the subject of ethnic cleansing. She couldn't with respect and all that you said, Mr. President, she couldn't have been intimated in a way that I wanted to extract some parallels from those nationalities that I mentioned before and what I said... I chose my words carefully. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I chose my words carefully. And these words of mine mean the following. It is known that in one address to the Assembly, someone cannot be more or less naked facts and naked findings that you can share and you do not have to share. And that you can't go into the depth of such an analysis. Because if I went into the depths of such analysis then I had to talk about the majority minority population, that's clear. I was only talking about minorities. When I was talking about Italians, for example. In World War II and after World War II, I was sorry, then I couldn't talk about the Croats before that. Because Italians today are minorities in Croatia, not Croats. But I agree completely with you, and I have talked about it many times in Parliament. That the Croats during Fascist experienced horrors and of course who has wanted to talk about causally consequential relationships and how they have the right to do so. But the fact remains, the fact is that World War II has gone something between 200 and 350 thousand people will never know how many. How they left, and now I'm starting to pull some parallels. They left in a way that was on the one hand expelled, and went the other way they were called. I don't want my sentence to be understood right now, and that's the most important thing I want to say, that's not what I said. And that's the worst thing I can think of. DA jet's a lot of thinking at the highest level agreed policy. I didn't say that. However, the fact remains that more than 300 thousand people who have not returned from these territories have come from various rsalgs that have had one wartime wartime. I take on myself what I said liberating the club of national minorities any responsibility whatsoever. But I believe that if one part of the population disappears from one area, that part of the population has experienced and we can discuss the reasons, not forgetting anything in all of it. It was known as I said before that I only made a parallel and how they were invited to leave the area. But it's known other things have happened. I believe that no matter how we interpret that if 300 thousand people from one territory disappear, then we can talk about that territory being cleaned up. I take responsibility for it, and I take responsibility for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3990	My colleagues and colleagues, I beg you, more colleagues and colleagues. I can't do it anymore. It would be unreasonable to discuss it further. I ask all colleagues and colleagues not to really open these topics when discussing completely other topics because you see that they are causing so much debate and controversy. Comrade Furio, I think you've also learned to come out this way with these topics, to open the haystacks because they require great explanations. Isn't it enough for us to teach that even yesterday in the European Parliament in Strasbourg, the unreasonable representative from the one of the northern leagues casts President Mesuća why you in Croatia are jeopardizing the rights of national minorities? I, more ladies and gentlemen, am concluding this debate on this. We're going to a budget debate. On behalf of Klub representative HSPa Anto Djapic. Go ahead and discuss the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3991	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, both colleagues and colleagues. So for the start of the discussion on the 20034 budget, I would like to indicate on behalf of the Croatian Party club two principled procedural objections. First of all, it is unacceptable for the Croatian party to pass a budget this time for one bad tradition at a time. By emergency procedure and therefore there is no excuse or reason because we have another month to discuss each questionable item in detail. And I believe that even the Government would accept even more carefully the proposal of the Croatian party to the right and other opposition parties. However, there is no year for the budget not to experience the reablans no matter how much the government swore at the beginning of the year that the budget was actually ideal. That is, the last word of tax and budgetary skills. In other words, Croatia's rebalancing serves as a second reading of the state budget. This is the proposal of the first draft budget in which there is no quality comparative representation of changes in the items of the budget. Compared to last year. And hardly, if not impossible, will carry out a quality budget debate. In addition, it is difficult to monitor individual items of the budget for the integration and termination of ministries. Speaking of this budget, we still need to take care of the context, i.e. the circumstances in which it is brought. So here's a few key facts. For the first time, the budget has been constantly growing for five years. Of the €66 billion in 2000 over 73.7 billion in 2001. So 75.5 billion kuna in 2002, up to 81.7 billion kuna in 2003. Or even 87 billion kuna in 2004. The deficit in the budget is again covered by debt, i.e. bonds or privatisations. If there are, and there will be because the government thinks to quickly privatise the obvious porpheus and liquidate the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Croatia's second external debt grew to $23.6 billion in 2003. And this year, he's supposed to exceed $27 billion with all the skating towards Euro. The debt is the most important context of this budget because we have to pay for it, so the model discussed for hours how it happened. What happened before? Chicken or egg. All these discussions unfortunately end again with the same result, which is -- the government is in charge of paying off debts. We're going in circles. So the government wants to, well it's not a good term it wants, but there's no other choice or no other solution, to owe 16 billion kuna to repay the 22 billion kuna debt that comes to payment this year and make the major, which interest. Speaking of the government debt created for the former governments, this government first claimed 40 days ago that a debt was inherited a great and dangerous burden, and then 20 days ago it was claimed for example. Mr. Shucker you, after meeting with the former minister of the Church, that the debt is large, but that it is for Croatia's benefit that last week, and even today at the assembly session, once again said that this debt is making it impossible for the government's projects. So it would be good if you finally decided on the version of the event by making sure that the debt transferred from the previous government in 2000 amounted to 10 billion kuna, and this year 6.5 billion kuna. Taking into account all of this, and when contributions to social and health and pension insurance are added to the budget, which are immediately forwarded to health and pension funds, then it turns out that 90% of the budget is already determined by the payment of the debt, which is by transfers in pension and health insurance funds. But it was known to everyone in November 2003, so even stranger promises were when it was clear that the government could spend only 10% of the budget imaginably. In addition, the budget is charged with taxes, and the success of budgeting depends on the state of the economy. It is good that very modest growth of the economy is foreseen in this year only 3.2%. Some analysts predict even less than 3%, but it is unusual that this year the budget is growing 4.6% and faster than the growth of the economy, which clearly leads to new borrowings. It is obvious that VAT and excise duties make up the highest part of budget revenues. The VAT is expected to increase from 23.2 billion kuna in 2001 to the expected 30 billion this year. The excise duties would also increase from 7.8 billion from 2001 to 8.7 billion this year. These expectations include anticipation of VAT and excise duties during the tourist season and growth of trade traffic. However, we warn that there is a possible undermining of tourism, i.e. the holes in this season precisely for the European football championship in Portugal and the Olympic Games in Athens this year. Last season was a sign of Croatia's rise, but this year competition is also being prepared. By the way, spending on promoting tourism is growing 3% this year. However, some key budget items for this year are a reduction compared to the previous year, which in our opinion is worrying. The funds for the Croatian Parliament are reduced by 25%. It is true that the budget division for the Parliament last year was higher because of the elections, but it is difficult to take the impression that this reduction of funds for the Croatian Parliament is also hiding within itself the intention of depleting the Parliament, i.e. its marginalisation, which is partly already out of the way the parliamentary sessions are malfeased. Secondly, there is no ministry in which so-called intellectual services do not amount to a fifth or a quarter of the staff costs. It is clear that Croatia should encourage the role of the profession in decision-making, but it should be asked how many fictitious projects there are in all of this, i.e. conflict of interest. It is difficult to accept such a small increase in the resources of the Ministry of Science for Fundamental Activity. This country is too little and insufficient for science anyway. The goal is 1.6% of GDP and we're at 0.8 today. It is naive to expect that this difference will rise from an economy like in the United States. We are already able to decide to leave the country for generations of scientists today. It happens in practice that we are training staff for the economy of the United States and the European Union. In addition, the university and scientific Internet networks of CARNET have been reduced by 27%. This reduction seriously endangers the functioning of an existing system that continues to expand and whose number of active users has doubled in the last year alone. In particular, we note that CARNET works in a more unfavourable environment compared to the German academic Internet. Deute Telekom is... refers to Germany rather than to our university internet network. [[You don't understand.]] The question is what can be done with 10 million kunas for informing high schools without clear programs such as. ...computer. Everyone knows how much the Rights Party has advocated to declare the economic belt and protect the Adriatic. Unfortunately, this budget does not even have a letter on the coast guard, which is the worst part of the budget for the implementation of the ecological fishing zone. A year will pass quickly, and we'll look inconclusive and inconclusive in front of our neighbors. We therefore expect an urgent decision on the establishment of a coast guard, and if necessary, we have a plan that can help the government solve this problem. The Ministry of Agriculture has insufficient growth, taking into account the fact that we have entered the WTO and that the Republic of Croatia expects a transitional cost to join the European Union, and organic agricultural production, fisheries are still strategic interests of Croatia. Any agricultural holding will be more effective if the state starts to deal with entrepreneurs by encouraging entrepreneurship, rounding up ownership, investing new technology and applying scientific achievements in agriculture. We ask for an immediate increase in the resources for the equipment of a laboratory for the detection of GMOs in food and for research into the prion prion of cow madness. Well-equipped laboratories would best discover and confirm public doubts about the quality of food we eat. In addition, the only dam to uncontrollably import food that destroys our agriculture is to control the quality of food. What we left at the end of our opening debate on behalf of the club, is the fact that we are inadmissible in reducing the isolation for modernising the Armed Forces. All we have seen so far has only been the reduction of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, not reforms, let alone modernisation. The Croatian Navy needs ships to monitor the Adriatic, which do not necessarily have to be financed from the MORH budget alone. We have an example in Poland and Germany. There's nothing better with the Croatian Air Force that's a little bit better if it continues like this and becomes just a thought concept. With extreme concern, we are taking the government's decision to slow down the modernisation of Croatian railways. It says it must be ready for sharp competition in 2006 when monopolies are removed and concession tenders are discussed, for railway transport operators. Without modernising HZ, we will not be able to fight for the operator in the Republic of Croatia, let alone Croatia. in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The survival of our ports in the Adriatic, Savi, Dravi, Danube is at stake. Our metal industry is at stake, and we can only dream of rebuilding certain railways, like Osijek-Gabos-Vinkovci. To end, we are not all critical of showing a positive attitude in showing budgetary social sensitivity, macroeconomic stability, first steps towards demographic renewal and trying to determine fairer treatment of Croatian defenders. The Croatian party club will give real amendments and the fate of these amendments will also be dependent on the vote of the HSP on the budget for this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3992	Thank you. Minister of Finance Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3993	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So let me clarify this item of the Croatian Parliament. So 139 million were reported from the budget, and 137 million 392 thousand 400 kuna and 11 limes were spent. Of these, 75 million 610 thousand were planned in the budget rebalancing, and 46 million 101 thousand and 17 million and 310 thousand kuna were transferred from the current reserves on two occasions, and the 2004 plan was 950 thousand kuna. So I think about this item for the Croatian Parliament to clarify these are the exact data and not the funds reduced because of the reduced activities in the Parliament, but simply because last year there were elections, and we hope that in four years there will be no elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3994	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Honorable Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3995	Mr. President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In terms of budget and what the minister said about this speaker, the objectives are highlighted, which come down to several of the following points, which I will mention and, of course, I will not point out with the aim of pointing out something that I do not think has received adequate and sufficient support. So, in its explanation, it says that the goal of retaining stability, financial consolidation, reducing deficits, continuing investment in infrastructure, etc., is, of course, all that we support and what is good, I am not among these objectives particularly recognised by the potential of development, primarily I think of some areas that, in this case, in this situation, and in this time deserve. I understand, of course, the financial difficulties of the state to finance some of its obligations or all of its obligations. I understand or we understand the government's difficulty in constructing a budget that will satisfy all functions, I understand, of course, the draftr of the budget that should put all this together in situations where it is an impossible mission. But now and in terms of what I'm saying, I'm showing some kind of misunderstanding if I can say so, why in this budget there's no proper treatment of the area of special state concern in my opinion. I am aware that the budget cannot also be a document and a financial source exclusively for development but I think that the budget must be the initial document and must show the initial will that should go in that direction. I'm going to say a few things here that sort of match the image of an area of special state concern. You subtract, add to that space you have a marked economic devastation, you still have, if I may use that term a terrible unemployment rate, and if I may say so, there is a lack of faith and hope that the situation can be fixed quickly and efficiently. That's why I think I'd be glad to have recognized in the budget and in the financial paragraphs and reasoning the message that this situation can change. I'll give you some illustrations that about or perhaps in what I'm about to say, precisely at least partially paint the situation on the ground. In the court, you have out of 5850 residents 280 employees, in Vrhovi of 1315 residents 115 employees, in Gozd, in a different way, 262 employed 510 unemployed, in Vojnić 600 unemployed, in Krnjak 120 unemployed, in Plaško 96 employees and 500 unemployed. Or another way. In Crimean space you have out of 15 thousand inhabitants several hundred employees or perhaps to be more precise a few hundred employees or in a third way, you have a flat-rate space that some have said is ours... where the great space remains abandoned, I'm afraid it's not entering the desert zone. In my opinion, that's enough reason to support the idea or to support the idea that the Prime Minister here this morning said not to be an area of special state concern but to be an area of special state interest. However, I dare say that in this budget and at the level of the Communication, and especially at the level of financial support, I do not recognise enough content that goes in the direction of the area of particular state interest. Now I have to be fair about this, as part of the budget paper, there is, of course, money in the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Development and on some other items that are directed for these purposes. I can't judge this precisely because I can't figure it out enough, but I mention it because of another thing, we're in a conversation, and even with the finance minister, at least by the way, if I can and thus show interest in the following, that for those areas might be precisely because they are of particular interest to form a special fund and perhaps in a specific way to single out special money. We're told it's not possible because of funding technology, because of budget technology, I can understand it, but I keep going back to the starting item called "I'm afraid we don't really recognize the need for special state care." Now I'm going to say one more thing just for the play of words. The slogan "Let's Start Croatia" absolutely deserves support, and I think it deserves even more support from the slogan "Let's change the situation in areas of special state concern". It is not possible, of course, if we do not recognise it as a political message and if we do not recognize it in terms of financial support. I'm going to express a dissatisfaction here that may explain my skepticism when it comes to the amount of support in these areas. So, I express my dissatisfaction with why money is, now I'm saying a little simplistic, why the money of the European Development Bank was used in the Real Estate Agency for Buying Houses. I respect that need, but I think stronger support deserves the development of this area we're talking about. I can, of course, be contradictory now and say I absolutely understand that the state has no money, so to a good extent and for what I'm saying and I also understand that development cannot be financed primarily from the budget but I am talking about initial means and I am talking about an initial message for it. What I'm afraid of and some data I'm afraid they're talking exactly that way, big areas are in danger of becoming a desert space and I can even say that they're becoming a wasteland. We may also get cities with a ring around them that's desert. And I, of course, think equally of... where Serbs and Pak's village are where the Croats are. But that's not the point, the thing is, can we and can we just let these spaces, let a lot of space become deserts and have potentials? For all this, of course, I would also like to commend these investments in large infrastructure. It is likely that Minister Cobankovic has money for, not some kind of significant incentive or so on, but I too have a need to specifically indicate that the development of the area of special state care is understood if I can say so as to be a special obligation and that if we cannot continue in this budget on these lessons that we have based on facts in, in, therefore, in the direction of accepting it as a real state interest. But effective in terms of development, not declarative. It is simply necessary because it is a need that cannot be delayed, which must not be left to commercial combinations, so whether or not someone is going to invest, which is still not to be left exclusively and autonomously with those areas. Furthermore, I think a high degree of solidarity is needed and should be heard for that. All together, I can't get out or I don't have the right to get out of this budget, but I'm counting on the right of the budget to look for a spirit of initiative that goes in this direction. As far as I'm concerned, I've been focusing on what's entitled "developmental". What is said here on behalf of the Club of National Minorities refers to budgetary items only for that purpose. We agree with how it's commented from the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3996	I'd like to thank Agent Gajica. Minister of Finance, Mr. Shucker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3997	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, just because of the sensitivity of the topic, and also because of the Croatian public, I think it is still necessary to say here with reasoned facts how much direct money is allocated to areas of special state concern. So donations to cities, municipalities and counties are 170 million, funds for regional development of 118 million, reconstruction of houses by billions of kuna, fiscal decentralisation of 600 million kuna. So a total of eighty-eighty million kunas. This should be added through the infrastructure so through Croatian roads, Croatian highways, Croatian waters, Ministry of Economy and Ministry of Agriculture where it is impossible to segmentally separate into areas of special state care so much and so much resources. So from this budget, the direct funds that come into areas of special state care are a billion and 880 million and you even have part of the funds that are in the Ministry of Defence, which is linked to areas of special state care. And these funds are simply impossible to isolate from these ministries and show them that they especially go... So because of both the Croatian public and only a billion and 880 million for areas of special state interest. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3998	Thank you. Honored representative Gordan Jandrokovic on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Union's Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u3999	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished members of the government, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The reasons for such a decision are as follows: when proposing the State Budget, the Government of the Republic of Croatia respected the state and all segments of Croatian society. The government of the Republic of Croatia has come out responsibly and rationally with a proposal that is realistic, based on real possibilities and without demagogy, false announcements and unfulfilled promises. The new Croatian government is praised for the rapid and high-quality Budget Proposal, commendation for having the strength and courage of its own example to show that it can only be spent as much as objective opportunities. I am convinced that both the professional public and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will welcome this very approach. This year's budget is based on expected GDP growth of 3.2%, an average inflation of 2.5%, a consolidated central government deficit of 4.5% and an inherited financial commitment for which the government is not responsible. Although some representatives of the former authorities are trying to challenge the importance of these commitments, they have significantly affected the content of this year's Budget Proposal. It should be noted that the amount of HRK 6.5 billion as a commitment transferred from last year to expenditure in 2004. It is specifically about the obligations of Croatian highways, Croatian roads, Croatian banks for renovation and development, Croatian Railways, Croatian Privatisation Fund, as well as the unpaid state subsidies for agriculture and long hospitals according to the large-scale drugs taken over by the Ministry of Health and Social Care. The same big problem with the draft budget was the calculation of the disbursement of around 22 billion kunas of which 16.8 billion kunas are waste on the main, and about 5 billion kunas on interest. It is therefore a total amount of around 28.5 billion kuna inherited by the government and for which it is not responsible. That should be made clear. Some say that you should not look into the past and seek justification for such a budget proposal, but this debt and commitments are not the past but the present to which the current government must react and it does so. Clear and precise, but without bitterness and accusation. The government has, as well as its duty to report to both the public and Croatian citizens. In conclusion, the large debt and irresponsibly created obligations of the former Government are a fact to be determined and taken into account in the adoption of this year's budget. The main objectives of the 2004 budget are retaining macroeconomic stability, fiscal consolidation through the reduction of the general government's budget deficit compared to the previous year and the achievement of its development and social component. The budget satisfies all the components of social giving that were announced during the pre-election campaign. The government thus fulfils obligations towards pensioners and Croatian defenders, and the budget also provides for an increase in maternity benefits. In line with the announcements and programme of the new Government of the Republic of Croatia guaranteeing social sensitivity, fostering demographic recovery and a fairer attitude towards Croatian defenders, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity will increase its budget by 23% compared to the previous fiscal year or by just over one billion kuna compared to 2003. Issuance for the Ministry of Health and Social Care is greater by 716 million kuna compared to 2003. The government will therefore single out a little more than 17 billion kuna for Croatian health care in 2004. In addition to the social budget, it has a strong development component. Investment projects in road construction, transport infrastructure housing are being continued. There have been increased allocations for science and incentives aimed at entrepreneurship. The proposal for a state budget shows a clear government orientation towards capital infrastructure projects. Thus, the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development will receive 803 million more funds than in the previous year, representing an increase of 23.1% compared to the funds implemented in 2003. For the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports it is planned to allocate 6% more funding in 2004 which represents an increase of nearly half a billion kuna. In this way, the government has made it clear that investment in science and education is one of the priorities. The reform and more effective judiciary are also the aim of this Croatian government. Therefore, the government plans to allocate 16.4% more funds to the Ministry of Justice in 2004 i.e. 270 million kuna more than last year. The proposal for the budget of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship for 2004 is €24.8 billion. It is an increase of 660 million kuna and it confirms the government's announcement that it plans to support the growth and development of Croatian entrepreneurship with incentives and other measures. Although at this initial stage of their activities they did not receive any more significant funding, the establishment of central state offices for the development strategy and for Croatia clearly shows the direction of the government. Clear definition of economic objectives and methods, and awareness of the necessity of modernisation and computerisation of Croatian state administration. The foreign ministry's budget compared to 2003 is 20.5% higher, only slightly corrects the injustice towards the portfolio. Namely, with its incomprehensible decisions regarding the financing of the foreign ministry, the former government has put him in a position that the system barely works. The European Integration Ministry has a percentage of the largest budget increase by as much as 41.8% compared to 2003. This data best shows the pro-European orientation of the new government and the willingness to speed up the process of bringing Croatia closer to full membership in the European Union. From all of this, the proposed budget of the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader is fully followed by the announced direction and does not deviate from any fundamental pre-election promise. The main policy elements of this government, which are faster economic progress, investment in science and education, reform of state administration and justice, highlighted greater social sensitivity and separation, and a strong orientation towards strengthening the international position of the Republic of Croatia can be clearly read from the draft budget for 2004. These are all preconditions for improving the standard of living of Croatian citizens and stable development of the Republic of Croatia. In view of all of this, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club supports the adoption of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4000	I thank Mr. Jandrokovic. There are eight amendments to your exposure to incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Radimir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4001	As has often been said here in recent years after Valentis, I responsibly argue that there are no six and a half billion transferred commitments and I call on Minister Shuker to mention any amount that makes up those 6.5 billion, if he can here, publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4002	Thank you. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4003	Thank you very much. It is an incorrect assumption that there is no demagogy and false promises in the budget, given the times, I will give only one example. I'm very glad to see in the third column that the Ministry has singled out 35 million kunas for the overtime of police officers. Unfortunately, the same amount was taken down on the item of travel expenses, the fee for a separate life, and the field war. Therefore, the police will ultimately get nothing. There are too many items like this, so spilling from left to day, and ultimately that means, say, much less money than they had in this ministry before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4004	Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4005	Mr. President, I'm correcting the quote on behalf of the HDZ Club on an irresponsible commitment made. First of all, I believe that the statement, that it is spoken without bitterness and anger only by reporting, does not in any way relate to the notion of an irresponsible commitment. He also wants to say that if this government has taken over road construction facilities, railway buildings, if this government has accepted that it has paid for the savings of stolen banks, if the former government's debts for outstanding Croatian military and Croatian police accounts have also been paid, then the obligations and responsible projects have been carried out responsibly. And they were admitted by the government to enter into this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4006	Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4007	I am correcting the inaccuracies of Mr. MPs, that this budget does not deviate from any pre-election promise and that greater social sensitivity is highlighted. It's simply an unfounded figure that we have a chance to look at here. Namely, only for children, only for children taking three positions, extra for children, extra for maternity leave, and maternity leave compared to last year it is over 130 million less kuna, which speaks of not even reaching the level, let alone some new promises to be fulfilled. And the same applies to pensions and other expenditures, for example for civilian war victims, are less isolated than last year, for the protection of military civilian disabled wars. There's no justification in numbers, just for that qualification.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4008	Dear Representative Josip Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4009	The edge of Pancic. But it doesn't matter. I am correcting an incorrect allegation, where it is said that it does not deviate from any fundamental pre-election promise, that they are fulfilled, and that the obligations to the Croatian defenders are fulfilled. Obligations towards Croatian defenders have been met, but are at the level of last year. Of the 5.6 billion the budget for the Ministry of the Defence Family and intergenerational solidarity for Croatian defenders turns out to be 3 billion 394 million. Last year, the budget was about 2 billion 900. There appears to be a difference of 500 million, but the 500 million most of them were transferred from the Ministry of Labour and Social Care with the needs of the pensions of active military personnel. So the budget is almost identical from last year, as far as Croatian defenders are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4010	I'm sorry to have made you. Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4011	Your Honor, Mr. President. Like my colleagues Vidovic and Pancic. I refer to the incorrect assumption that the government has fulfilled the days of pre-election promises. Namely, that's an incorrect quote. Given the fact that we are promoting the amount of compensation for children who have been reduced compared to the previous year, it is quite unclear how a pre-election promise will be made to pay children's extras to students, when, given the reduction in funds, it is not clear how will it be paid to those who have so far had the funds? Another incorrect allegation is that investment in science and education is one of the priorities of this government and that this is seen by the increase of funds by nearly half a billion kuna. That's incorrect. The funds have been increased by 400 million kuna, of which 300 million kuna applies exclusively to the salaries of teachers and teachers in primary and secondary schools, which has nothing to do with science and new technologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4012	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4013	Thank you, Mr. President. It is incorrect that Mr. Prosecutor said that this budget clearly read that reform is the first priority of this government. First of all, nothing clear can be read from this budget. However, the media has already announced this when they said that this year's judicial reform will be on a fat diet. This increase of 16% nominally, which is constantly pointed out, is forgotten to relate mainly to the increase in the volume of wage mass, which during last year, especially before the end of the year, because we just did, the former government has been counting heavily on the completion of the judicial staff. And moreover, here are what was before the funds that fell under the government's office, the Government's Office for Co-operation with the International Criminal Court, and the Government's Office for Co-operation with The Hague Court, all these funds have now come under the auspices of the Ministry of Justice, and then it is now shown as an increase that wants to explain how judicial reform is progressing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4014	Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4015	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The HDZ representative, counterpart Jandrokovic, claimed that the growth index is the largest in the European Integration Ministry. However, the proposal for this budget states that the growth index of the finance ministry is 162.3, which is one incorrect quote from HDZ representatives. Secondly, real planning towards needs and possibilities cannot really be about fighting drugs. In fact, the budget forecasts only 745 thousand kuna in the fight against drug abuse and the entire campaign over the past four years has been that the fight against drug abuse has been neglected. That's not real.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4016	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative of Ivica Racan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4017	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs! Here I am at 3 p.m. and something 8h or 9th debate. This discussion of ours is slow about an extremely important topic. I was just a little scared about the debate that took place over my colleague Radina's statement. Luckily, it took a while. Fortunately, I was just thinking about how long this debate would have lasted if it had been about my coalition partner's statement. Well, good. It's my turn to get on the subject. Getting a budget together is no doubt a hard job. I personally participated four times in this difficult work, and I want to express my understanding for those in today's government who put it together and came with a proposal in front of this House. It's not easy to make a budget and defend it here for a number of reasons. For example, because needs are always greater than possibilities. It was like that yesterday, and so it is today. And also because of conflicting interests in a transition country such as Croatia is not easy to determine. It's not easy to make a budget I mean because of the promises made, the commitments that have been made. It's not easy to make a budget because everyone thinks his needs are the most important. That's what I thought very often and in the vaults. I don't know what it's like in the current government. It is not easy to make it because often the current interests suppress those strategic, long-term, developmental ones. It is certain that if we were to ask budget consumers if they are to spend the money on 100km of highways for current needs or for indeed 100km of highways I know about what a difficult answer would be. So I have an understanding of the weight of the job, but despite that, I must stress on behalf of the Social Democrats Club. We will not support this budget because it is insufficiently developed and insufficiently socially or socially stable. First of all, something about the observation that this draft budget is insufficiently developed. The fact is, we are facing a slowdown in economic activity. That is also what is written in the very good explanation of this budget. Especially good when it explains the results we've achieved over the past four years. Some current indicators of growth, industrial production, and trade speak of this. It is right to point out, for example, the slowdown in personal consumption due to the restrictive monetary policy which, as we know, wants to stop the credit expansion of banks towards the population. It is also right to point out the effects of non-working Sundays on trade and work-time cuts, etc., etc. But to this slowdown which is a fact we don't see the answer in the budget. How do you deal with this slowdown so we don't become his victims? Of course, in favour of development. It's not there. But what do we have in the budget? A defensive and unambitious growth rate of 3.2% is planned. With a 3% rate, you can't do anything developmental and social. It was seen by the HDZ government before 2000, we've had this experience for the past four years, and it shouldn't be repeated both these and next years. If we are to ensure development in this country and based on the development of more adequate social needs, then we must be more ambitious, more offensive and when it comes to the growth rate. Why is he reluctant to continue the development projects that enable it? Why is there no new development projects and not just the continuation of those that allow development and higher growth rates? Why doesn't it continue with all the infrastructure development projects started? What I want to say here, so it would be good not to use a Croatian resource geostrategic position only when it comes to politics and political relations with our friends in Europe, with the European Union for example. Based on the country's geostrategic resources, the argument that we need the European Union and not only the European Union of Croatia is very important from this geostrategic position of Croatia to start when it comes to defending the economic, economic, economic, national interests of this country. This is why the past government has focused on infrastructure development projects. It is good that this budget foresees a continuation of road construction without a doubt as important as Prime Minister Sanader said the historic development project. It's good to continue with him. After all, if it is a highway for example Zagreb-Split-Dubrovnik he must continue. And that we want him we can't stop in the most part because he's planned and financially covered, but it's a good thing it's a project that this government took over, too. But what about another strategic project to gasify Croatia? As you know, only a third of the country's citizens have gas. It's a similar situation with the economy. Why do you not see the development resources of this development project and the multiplication of this project in the development of Croatia? What about modernising the railroad? A question that has been asked by law already on several occasions. Let me tell you, it's not just about fixing the track, for example, between Zagreb and Split, so it'll be quicker to come to Split or Zagreb. It is that there will be more work, for a part and a good part of the Croatian industry. It is that we will stop the circumvention of goods in relation to the port of Croatia in favour of other countries, etc., etc. We managed to stabilise in the last period of energy, infrastructure, transport, the state-owned financial sector. Look, it was planned last year only in those sectors of 17 billion investments. These investments were possible in this scope and because the government, which I led, did not extract dividends from these companies in the budget. It focused them on development, the effect was on both employment and higher growth rates. Now, as you can see, we're pulling dividends into the budget. We reduce funds for investment, development, growth or reduction of HABORU funds by 15%, or the Fund's funds are reduced, for employment development. Regional Development Fund 18.3%, I think. This all together does not contribute to the development, the higher growth rate that this country needs. The competitiveness of the Croatian economy and exports and employment. And that's why we can't vote for a budget like this. There have already been speeches here, not enough investment in 3 sectors, 2 which are dramatically important for each country: education and science. And specific to Croatia, given Croatia's poor state of affairs as a rule of law, I am talking about legal efficiency. So, the word is here and in investing in the judiciary. 6% increase, someone's already talked about it, so it's somewhere at the level of nominal GDP expansion, slightly higher, slightly less pay increases under the collective agreement, there's no increase in funds, however, a decrease in funds compared to the last period. For science and education, development sectors in every country, I suppose, in Croatia. Except I could talk about justice, but I leave it to others. We do not see that the decentralisation process in Croatia for which there is, I am sure, the majority commitment of the citizens of this country continues. We've made one step in that direction, not enough, we should keep going. We do not see that development incentives are planned, even if they are initial, for certain sectors of the economy. We don't see fate, for example. Decisions of the previous Government on the production of auto parts. Prepare the decisions on the wood industry, the text industry, as you know, with small resources, we can gain greater effects. Let's take another look at this situation. It's a suggestion. We don't see any means to fill the stock reserves and let's remember the noise that was made because the stock reserves didn't exist. Where are the supplies? We didn't even get a fiscal projection for the next two years. I don't mention it because it's an obligation, a legal obligation, it's an article 19. Budget law, now we're not talking about a legal obligation. A plan, a single government strategy can be known for a long time. And it would be good to get at least a few years from now such a fiscal projection, maybe it would be clearer, that eventually what, what this government thinks is important, but it can't, maybe next second or third year do. I'll ask myself one question. Is this neglecting development and development projects necessary? No, I don't. But first of all, it's about the programming definition. If four years ago we could achieve consolidation of the Croatian economy and open the process of development, we can do it today. Four years ago, there was no money in either the banks or the domestic financial market. We faced 2 billion losses from the Croatian economy. And you know for a fact that we couldn't use it under even favourable circumstances, foreign battery. Now, as Croatia's economy's profits are known to be close to 3.5 million or even over 3 billion, we have developed a domestic financial market, reform, for example pensions made it possible for us to get on that market and pension and investment funds that we can use in the development and we can also have foreign accumulation on more favourable terms because we have raised Croatia's political and financial ratings worldwide. There are no obstacles to development and development projects and higher growth rates if this is a programme-specific government. And since the lights are on, I have to make short arguments as to why we think it's also a socially inadequate programme, or a draft budget. We don't see a shift, or in some parts it's insignificant and the question is do you have gentlemen in the government and cover for existing legal obligations? Retirement for this year. 22 660 billion, 22 billion 660 million spent last year, you're planning 22 billion 800 this year, not enough for pensions. We spent a child's allowance of a billion and 600 million in 2003, you plan less than that, for maternity leave too, for regular maternity leave, for an added maternity leave. For the social, too, there is no increase in resources, fortunately the funds for defenders have been increased and we support it, unfortunately giving, for example. to protect the civilian victims of war, the disabled, the disabled, the disabled and the second world war, the means for this are reduced. This makes a bad difference and increases the difference between these categories, and it seems to me that there are unnecessary conflicts in Croatia. I'm done. These are the reasons why the SDP Club cannot support this draft budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4018	Thank you very much, Mr. Racan. A proposaler's representative, Mr. Shucker's Finance Minister, came forward. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4019	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, it's very interesting to listen to these discussions now, and if I may, I don't want to call anyone, correcting the false allegations of former fellow ministers. On the one hand, it is said that in all possible positions less funds were provided than last year, and on the other hand, this budget is 5.7% higher on the spending side than it was last year. Then the question arises if a billion kuna goes to pay difference, gentlemen I've listened to you so nicely I ask you to listen to the elementary courtesy, if you will, if you won't, tell me to get off the pay phone and that's probably democracy. So when it comes to the budget, then the obvious elemental things that have been done cost the budget this year are not recognised. And that's what's wrong. The 6.5 billion again must be paid from the budget this year. And gentlemen, that this year we are not as limited as the previous government has been in the past four years with the deficit that this deficit must go down this year as well, that co-worker Linic and fellow Churchmen well know what arduous negotiations they have had for the past four years. Then it would be easy to raise the deficit, to repay these six and a half billion spent and those six and a half billion that were supposed to remain free this year, and this year's budget, to spend all these development projects. To make it easier. Because you can't say if you've fulfilled all the obligations that were planned last year according to the budget that this tall House brought, and that this government has set out without tails that the six and a half billion would not be spent what the honourable Mr. Representative was saying. Probably most of these funds were just directed into these projects. But you must be aware that we as a serious government because on the day no one like the SDP or the HDZ government sees us primarily as a Croatian state, which has its own credibility, which has its own obligations. So we have to carry out those obligations. You can't say that spent billions and 600 million more in Croatian highways won't slow things down this year. I don't have anything against it, and that's what I said in our conversation. That's what the Prime Minister said, and it's far more important that no one crazy is against the construction of the highway. But it's questionable why it was done beyond the public's eyes. Nothing else. And that's the obligation of this budget that's evident. 530 million unpaid drug obligations. This was what had to be reported to the International Monetary Fund as an avionics according to the stand by the arrangement or received unpaid claims from 31.12. It had to be reported. But the application to the IMF went on a non-compromising duty of zero. Unfortunately, there's no such thing, there are far-reaching responsibilities that have disappeared. 100 million kunas of outstanding liabilities to judicial workers. This reduces the position in the judiciary automatically this year. No one can argue with that. So that's what we simply have to assume no one dispute that this 99th government has inherited 9 billion debts. THAT 400 were shown in the finance ministry as a return, a billion and 700 HZZO bonds come to be charged to this government at the end of 2004. And two-and-a-half billion dab funds are coming, bonds are being charged to this government, so they come to the Croatian state, which is irrelevant in 2005. So, in 99, 2000, 4 billion debt was paid back, and that's not disputed, and nobody ever slowed it down. That's what we've been discussing from the position of Parliament's representative, you from the government's position for the past four years. So nobody slowed it down. But let us also not dispute the obligations that have now arisen. You can't say that the unrepresented reconstruction commitments through the 2002 budget didn't affect this country's fiscal discipline in 2003. The deficit would be completely different, and that's what the IMF gentlemen admitted. You can't argue with that, gentlemen. That is why, after the conversation with you, you do not want to panic, not wanting to destroy the international credibility of the Croatian state because those in front of all of us. Put the ball on the ground, invite the gentlemen from the International Monetary Fund to put the cards on the table. Set up a few things. The results of that deal will be likely next week. And you'll see, gentlemen, that you're wrong about what you're saying, I can say it right now from this pay phone. So some of the costs existed, and if such costs had to be recorded. Whether it was good to look at the economic, economic environment situation to force the reduction of the 2000 deficit allowed by the International Monetary Fund, 6.8 to 4.8, because some commitments could not be made. If then the deficit that the international community so our controllers allowed us at 6.8 trust the gentlemen and you who were in the previous government in 2003 would have been much easier for you and this government would have been far easier. Or another thing, let's look at the macro-economic indicators this year. Let's let go of what was before. Except for what's budget spending this year and it's supposed to be budget expenditure past goodness by all standards. Then the deficit of the central state and the general government deficit this year is not 4 and a half but is somewhere around 3.5 - 3.6. So these are the facts we can't escape from, that's the truth. And these are the legal regulations that we all adopted together. And that's what we need to confess to each other. As we admitted in 2000 to you that there were so many outstanding liabilities left, so today it is due to be admitted here, let's take that point off the agenda. But while we've got to claim each other like this, while we've got to get someone third and judge us and tell us, listen gentlemen you're right about this, you're right about that, we can't talk about the future. But I'm saying it's definitely the basic principle that's been broken, and that's the fiscal deficit in 2003 that's been recognised. The data on what it is you'll be reported shortly. It is definitely that this government has inherited the obligations, it is definitely in these obligations which are not disputed, which President Sanader told you, Mr Racan, that these objects are of exceptional importance to the Republic of Croatia. But what's the budget for? Why today's debate here ten clubs, 75 individual debates, if someone's going to take the right to break through items that everyone here has decided must be. And those who did not agree and those who voted in favour of the budget. That's what I'm saying. The second thing that I'm right, gentlemen, is that you'll see the moment the report on the implementation of last year's budget is filed. You will see that the items provided by the budget rebalance and what is the implementation of the budget that, unfortunately, many positions are not what they were meant to be. You yourself know how much the government's decision to change from position to position was made, which was ultimately decided by the budget law. So these are things that aren't controversial. But what I'd like to say is, growth of 3.2% and what just Mr. Prime Minister said and what I said. We have the economic environment we're in. We cannot escape from the economic environment. At this moment, the assessment of all those who are engaged is therefore not only the Ministry of Finance but also the Croatian National Bank and even some international institutions, that the real assessment of Croatia's growth is between 3, 2 and 3 and 5 in the following year. That's something that's next year. However, let's look at something else, unfortunately, the biggest growth in the Republic of Croatia in recent years will not be spoken in 2000, 99. But in recent years, unfortunately, he has been tied to a large current balance of payments deficit and to the large borrowing of the Croatian state outside. Unfortunately, it was so tied up. We failed to secure foreign direct investment in Croatia. Some preconditions over the past four years, I'm not saying they haven't been created, but that's the only thing that gives us more quality work on gross domestic product. Of 5.2% of GDP growth in 2002. 45 points makes consumption. Somewhere 0.7% makes investment in infrastructure. So only 0.5% of industrial projections and that's what we should be worried about. If we add that each year the value added tax was already carried out at 75% last year on the Croatian border, it clearly tells all of us the situation in which the Croatian economy is located. And we don't have to sell it to each other, and everyone who deals with it knows it best. And that's what we really need to talk about. And in the end, there's something else I'd like to say, and I'll apologize for the red light. But look, the gasification of Croatia. Is she supposed to go over the budget or somewhere else? And another matter of dividends. I would not want the Croatian public to go to the wrong message. No one will remove dividends from companies owned by the State at the expense of their investment. Rather than on the account that state-owned companies with them should not behave to manage far better. I think my colleague Linic will agree with me here. So that's what we want. So mastery, better-quality management, and you know where that dividend exists and where it can be taken. And the other thing, from state-owned companies, unfortunately in recent years, was not the situation to take the money. And finally, the Development and Employment Fund. If Ina's privatisation money hadn't been spent on current consumption, if they had ended up in the Fund for Development and Employment, then the Fund would probably have bigger funds this year. Thank you very much. And forgive me, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4020	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague, Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4021	Mr. Chairman, I would like to correct the inaccuracy of the Minister of Finance in a section in which the Government said before 2000, or the Government of the Croatian Democratic Community until 2000, had admitted until a short time ago that it had left huge debts, I would have even been a little more drastic, so I would say the burned country and the extremely high and insufferable indifference that we had to borrow to repay these debts, i.e. to start the development process and to compensate from the increased gross social product the economy that suffered due to the huge debts incurred in the period up to 2000.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4022	Thank you very much, colleague Antunović. The word came before that, Nevio Šetić. Here you go, Secretary of State Nevio Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4023	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Representative, Your Honor, gentlemen of the House of Representatives. I have to answer one thesis that has been heard here several times, but now and in front of the SDP club that systematically reduces separation for science and education. It's simply not true in all dimensions, it can only be true in some particular item, but it needs to be heard the whole argument. Facts tell the following. That the increase in the position of the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports is almost 500 million kuna, which in nature means about 6.38%. But I want to say next, which you may not have noticed. In science, funds are provided and more than one billion kunas will be invested in loans and capital allocations in science. Also, the ministry will have 104m euros for 147 capital facilities in primary and secondary schools, as already agreed. Then four thousand scholarships were also provided. It also provides 90 million to raise student standards. 20 million are also provided for the construction of a student centre in Zagreb. All the contents are new. Subsidies for textbooks were then increased. He started this system where the textbooks would be subsidized. We have 15 million kunas in that item, probably not all of which will be used, even for other programs, and these funds have been allocated. Also for the National Test Centre and for the State Graduation System, which will take place with a new content programme. Then I have to say it quite openly, 1400 new people are in the system, of which in education about a thousand, and one item from what you started, which is the introduction of English from the first grade of primary school, means the number of people is systematically increasing. For all of them, it is secured for that standard, for the quality of money in the state budget. I could count on it further. The truth is 300 million out of these 500 pay increases, but there's also a 15% increase in science doctors. There's this 1400. It is therefore highly invested in humans, and the total mass is greatly increased. And there's something else I want to say. All these funds are still worth 32 million in education, which was in your time along with the ministry. I would therefore like to remove because of the Croatian public thinking and the the thesis that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is not as a driving force and which can run Croatia with its projects, you see that there are them here. For them we have the means and that's a significant increase bigger than it is here, because we have it on other items. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4024	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It is on behalf of the HNS club PGS Mr. Radimir Cacic or Mrs. Pusic. Half-half. Okay. Here you go, Mr. Cupcake.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4025	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President. Introductoryly, of course, I want to express my satisfaction that it has not been 100 days since the elections and not 70 days since the formation of the government, and Croatia is already getting a budget. That's good. It is true that in a certain way I would say in full collegiation with the programme promise of HDZ, I quote: "The new government will start Croatia in the first 100 days". Unfortunately, for the first 30 days, it was spent on wandering about to find the possibility of joining some ministries, and of course it was a clear desire to show at least a declarative seriousness in reducing the administrative apparatus, and it ended up as we know by increasing. The other 70 were spent on seeking alibis to give up unreal promises in the election campaign. The last government had a strategy development and results which these days were confirmed by a list of experts from the European Union to... imports that we had received publicly published from the EBRD. Everyone admits and voices hope that the new government will continue the same policy. Even the composers of the draft budget specifically highlight the continued growth of income from profit tax in 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 if God gives. As a consequence, I quote, good business even writes extremely good business. Even with a reduction in the tax rate of profit from 35 to 20%. Given the results of the elections, it is clear that the last government did not have good public communication and that its results were not recognized. Unfortunately, this budget shows that for now the new government remains only at a better level of communication. After challenging the suspicion that there is any programme by the fact that she did not even know which ministries she wanted in the government, you are now explicit in the reason to give up the obligation to present a multi-annual development programme that the last government itself has put into a legal obligation, this government states that the application of the Budget Law is delayed due to yet unconfirmed development programmes for the next medium term. I quote the text of the Government, page 9. The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, We don't have development programs. It's not my text. It's the text of the government. This quote of the government's reasoning tells everything about the budget. It is clear that in 2004 we will happily continue to run Croatia on development projects of the last government except for those that are being stopped or trying to stop, Railway and POS, and that the new Government will only try to design its own development projects. I want luck. The fundamental difference between a fully drawn budget called the draft budget that the last government left behind and the one that I have on my desk is in my deficit-oriented strategy. It's about the philosophy of the deficit. Nothing else. In 2004, the past government insisted on development projects, and curbed personal spending while it does trade. We eliminated the railway development project by 15%, the HAC budget was reduced, and unfortunately we offer nothing developmental even in the preparatory phase. If you saw the preparation phase, I'd hope so. I can't even see the prep phase. I can't even see decentralisation unless we call re-nomination of the director by the minister decentralisation, and we've transferred the costs to local self-government units. I don't see any sign of any reduction in the tax burden or the economy or the citizens, except for what's necessary in retirement so as not to be in harm's way when we add to them what the government already pays 6% and 100 kuna. So right now there's no vision. There's no move. Unfortunately, it is not even about the necessary investments in the construction of new electricity capacities as well as at the beginning of the works on the Zagreb-Sisak highway which is finally possible after... the restrictions that the last government itself has imposed in the contract with Bechtel. Both projects can be realised by a cost-effective cohesion arrangement with positive effects for development and a budget at no cost for the state. In Croatia, the police, unfortunately, are unresponsibility, and even in this House, some examples are part of folklore, which is normal. Of course, we can't expect the government to be a serious institution, so please, gentlemen, and once again, I am undermining the effects of the delegated obligations we are talking about here are being treated casually as due obligations. They're not. The last government had indeed inherited in the book of debt nine billion, there were another 3.5 in other paragraphs but these were the obligations of Minister Shuker and here we are talking partly about contracts as we know it. I will only make it here that only the realisation of the POS programme which, of course, has not been passed on, because the commitment transferred is 25 million, I ask the Assistant Minister to confirm here my statement or disprove it, the commitment of 25 million and the POS contracts transferred to this budget. And contracts at a level of one billion and 700 million are contracts that give a 2% increase in national product and growth in the economy but are realised by the government whether in one year or two we are already a little late. This money is paid by customers, and all that the government invests in each payment situation is returning to them in the same month through VAT plus profit tax, income tax, health and pension insurance contributions that everyone who studied the model knows. I hope we take that chance. Finally, the state funds when we talk about the HATS that were defined by the financial plan and allowed by the Parliament's deficit are both paid under the financial plan and under the allowed deficit, it is true that all of these are burdens, not POS, but HATS and some of the other items that will be made in payment this year, it is not disputed but are current payments rather than reached, it is something that is normal and will continue to happen. What I would particularly like to point out here is that for the works on the shares that... this government is going to owe $515 million this year is already in an ino debt that was politically burdened by the past government and used against it in the campaign during the election. So, the debt and the burden we've been carrying politically is we and the highways will be opened by you, that's the essence of that message. Finally, I hope that it will be up to the next budget of development projects and I hope that we will not find Croatia as we found it in 2000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4026	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pusic, please continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4027	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS PGS Club, we felt it was necessary to specifically talk about a topic that is important in this budget, in our opinion, a topic which should represent a fundamental strategy for Croatia's development, which is science and higher education. As we know to the most successful countries around our size and approximately our past as well as our economies and development, Finland and Ireland have just chosen the development of science and emphasis on science and higher education as their development strategy, as their strategy and economic development. From that point of view in this budget, what's interesting is that it has and it's even more interesting what's not there. What there is when it comes to science and higher education is more less keeping the status quo as it is, but what is not foreseen is funding for a law that we in this Parliament passed just over 6 months ago, which is the reform of the science and higher education system in Croatia in accordance with the processes and criteria defined in the Bologna Declaration, thus harmonising the science and higher education systems in Croatia with trends, standards that exist in Europe. No funding for reform in science and higher education has been provided. No funding is provided for the national committee, for example to improve the quality which is one of the main instruments for the implementation of the new law on science and higher education, and one of the main instruments for standardisation of Croatian Higher Education under the European criteria, the criteria of the European Union countries. In order to increase the autonomy of the university by the new law that we have adopted here, for example, university funding is foreseen in total in so-called "the" university. Lumb sum therefore the total amount allocated to individual universities which according to its development projects, according to those disciplines which it considers particularly significant, then distributes within the university itself these funds. In this budget, the State redefines every university in which it will spend the money, so the idea contained in the new Law that has been brought here to increase university autonomy in its own development projects is completely abandoned. Some universities have already started reforms in Croatia according to the new Law and in line with the European Bologna Reform Process. What are we doing there? Does this budget, whether there is no trace in it, no kuna, for the European standardisation of Croatian science and higher education, mean that we are giving up the European process of reforming the university, that is, the Bologna Process in Croatia. The main instrument for the realization of this process here is completely ignored, there is no kuna for it. So, we won't have the National Committee for the Quality of Higher Education, so we won't have the opportunity to achieve what we were complaining about when we spoke about the signing of the Bologna Declaration by Croatia, which is that our students and our university teachers will be able to give or study semesters at different universities in Europe, and vice versa that teachers and students from European countries will be able to study with us. There is no word about the expansion of the university network either one idea which is now an integral part of the Bologna Declaration, in a situation where we have 7.2% of people with high education, it is obvious that if we want to use science and higher education as a development strategy we also need to expand the university network in Croatia. The funds for information infrastructure are being reduced. Why? Are we giving up on that at university? Is this budget finally a sign that in this dimension, the dimension of science and higher education that we consider Croatia a key future facing a strategy to give up European standards, to give up harmonisation with the European Union? The HNS and PGS Club will not support this Budget, will not support this Budget set up this way because at least in two dimensions it does not correspond to what we consider necessary and what is often repeated here. It is not developed in science and higher education and agriculture, two areas where it may be most clearly seen because there is no, does not support any new project and is not pro-European because it goes against the processes prescribed in the Bologna Declaration, which is the Croatian signatories, so it goes counter-standardisation of higher education according to European criteria. Unfortunately, therefore, it is quite different from what we have advocated, and why we had assumptions in the existing legislation in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4028	Thank you very much. First injure of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Adlesic. Here's your esteemed co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4029	You have violated Article 214, paragraph 5. A colleague, Cacic, spoke of the inconclusiveness of MPs in the parliamentary parliament. I'm really not too sensitive to words spoken for this speaker. Which way might I agree with that claim, but I believe that you as chairman, as vice president, are obliged to draw attention when someone violates the Rules of Procedure, and this article has been allowed to be broken because it has led to a completely impossible conclusion. If the Government is already a serious thing, as counterpart Cacic says, and the Parliament is inconclusive then such a non-serious Parliament has very little opportunity to choose a serious government, so I ask you nicely to protect the House of Representatives as chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4030	Thank you very much, dear colleague. My colleague Cacic did not say that, but he said that some of them use this assembly. Corrections to an incorrect allegation, counterpart Bucan first has the correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4031	Mr. Vice-President, it is incorrect that Mr. Cacic's colleague said that this government, I quote, "that this government spent 30 days joining the ministries" because the ministries were joined on the day it was formed and it is incorrect to assume that for the other 70 days it spent setting up today on the 67th day of the government's rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4032	Thank you. It is up to you to correct the incorrect quote of your colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4033	Mr. President, I'm not sure how I can turn to half of the business. Proposer and half of MPs, half [[You're the only one who's here. Go ahead.]] Yeah, okay. [[Intruder: Straighten both.]] Okay, anyway, Mr. Cacic, the first half of the representatives of the HNS Club said this government has no vision. This government certainly has a vision, and in this vision it is not forging projects that would involve the spouses of ministers and only for this reason to force projects really makes no sense and these visions, that is, the vision of this government. So he doesn't force projects to earn his spouses. It's one of the visions. Also when he spoke about the development programmes Mr. Cacic obviously did not inform himself enough from this Budget Proposal because he could read well from the accompanying contributions that it was obviously a large number of development programs and also when he was talking about, when he was also talking about projects that the government was about to propose. [[Intruder: Time.]] I also don't agree because they've already been antiqueed in this Budget Proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4034	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Now it is on behalf of the gentleman's proposing representative, first of all Minister of Finance Mr. Schuker and then Minister Matulović-Dropulic. Please all fit in in in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4035	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here is the plan, the financial plan of the Croatian highways. 3 November The Supervisory Board shall adopt a Decision on the rebalancing of the business plan of the Croatian highways in such a way as to increase revenues and expenditures. It's an amendment to this financial plan and no one else can interpret it in this world. For a billion and 766 million. But far more important is the explanation, and that's what I was talking about when I spoke to the respected representative Racan, but now I'm just going to keep going. Thus, payment for a part of the total expenditure of a billion 121 million 409, 439 million will be transferred and implemented in 2004. However, it is important that the deficit be maintained in 2003 at 3 billion 432 thousand, 432 million 239 kuna and 188 million less than the amount of deficits granted and so on, and with this rebalancing plan the deficit is 5 billion 186 million. So you don't show the deficit of a billion and 700 you later played games with the rebalancing of the Building Plan. As regards HABOR, to leave little space and to Ms. Dropulić, Article 5 says for insurance, the orderly settlement of all commitments made under this agreement, or by all agreed loans referred to in point 1 and so on, the Ministry of Public Works shall be obliged to deliver to HABOR: 10 binko of its own trasised and acceptual notes with a provision without protest and exchange of evidence. And an ordinary debtor with a maximum amount of 107 million 264 thousand and so on. Gentlemen, for these bonds, this debt has not been granted in the budget. For these exchanges, the parliamentary representatives of the Croatian National Assembly were not aware at that time. For these bonds and for this debt comes payment of this government 300 million kuna. If it had been done in accordance with the law, this would have been on the expenditure side of the 2001, 2002, 2003 budget and in 2004 a loan payment would have occurred. Then we wouldn't be able to talk about the deficit one way or another. And now take a colleague of yours, Cacic, just two items: 3 billion and 300 million that have been in the past and have been burdening the deficits of the past. And that's true. These are documents signed and we can't get away from it. If we're going to take this Parliament's rule that someone can spend money past your MPs, then why all this bile debate today? Here's a thank you, beautiful colleague. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4036	Thank you very much. It is up to Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4037	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, it's really enough talk about this government stopping the job. It's not gonna stop him, it's not gonna stop him. It's not gonna stop him. It's not gonna stop him. It's not gonna happen. And I'll make that argument. Last year, the budget was secured for POS and for the victims of the Homeland War 270 million kuna. This year, 321 million kuna or 19% more. Therefore, it is clear that this government wants to do so further. But 1025 apartments were built in two and a half years. This year, it's planned for 1600. As for the debt, not 25 but 49 million and 100 and 8 million are left for the victims of the Homeland War. One share of 49 million and 100 is the work done by the end of the 12th month to be paid, but most of these works have been completed by the 11th month. We never mentioned it, and there's no reason, but since you mentioned it clearly, that's what you should say. But what's still following us is to correct the shortcomings, and the click will cost to correct the defects that we'll only see and then you'll get an account for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4038	And in the rest of the time, colleague Nevio Šetić, secretary of state. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4039	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, very briefly because of the strategic debate that Mrs Pusic held above all, we are not giving up on the binary system, I will tell you one fact that I assure you. Around the University of Istria, we have an initiative three state secretaries were already visiting Istria and you know what expertise has shown, that the proposal at the gym was completely contrary to the Bologna process. And we made a recommendation to get exactly in line with that. And that's why I thank you here for your debate. But I want to say that we do not give it up because of the Croatian public. We have another fact new funding for the university. Why it's in the old model. Well, that's what the university asked for, and your government passed the law enforcement regulation to postpone it until 1.7.2004. And there's one more thing I'd like to say is that 10 million kunas were given in the paragraphs here to perfect our teachers in Europe. He had an ambitious plan for 100 students to study at European and world universities with the support of the ministry for the years. With them coming back to the country later. And another thing you said about the national information infrastructure is that there's an increase of 7.44% in the budget. So these are exact indicators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4040	Thank you very much. Now correcting an incorrect quote and vice versa. First fellow Cacic has a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4041	Thank you very much. I remind Mr Shuker that this is the 2004 budget and writes the effect of the transferred commitments from 2003 on expenditure in 2004. So we can't raise the cost of a billion-and-600 reconstruction as an effect for 2004 except for the part they belong to. And that's 330 million. And 235 million of that from spending this year's renovation. It's about that segment. As far as Hatca is concerned, we've already cleared up so it's formally normal to pay. And the actual salary of billions and 121 million kuna as next year will be for the last quarter of this five times. As for what Mrs. Dropulić said, everything she said is true. And it only confirms that the item transferred in 2000, 2004 does not include a contractual obligation of 8 billion 700, but as you said, Mrs. 44 million. Thank you very much. And a billion and 744 is a big difference, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4042	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague of Chichin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4043	I would just correct Mrs. Dropulić, so if we are talking about summing up investment in POS and the victims, then it would be okay to talk about the numbers of completed apartments that we are talking also dazzlingly, so it's not 1025 apartments of ngo that are significantly larger. I would also like to correct Mrs. Dropulic in the following that all the damages involved in removing those apartments are mainly on those apartments that began in 97, 98 and 99 years. So on the apartments started by the government, or so on. HDZ's government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4044	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Marina Matulović Dropoulos is respected. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4045	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I never said commitment was a billion and 700 million kuna. It's that the agreed works are a billion and 700 million kuna. And that's settled for another three, four, or five years. And that's for sure. In fact, 1600, if you've made 1025 in two and a half years, then you can't do another. 200 apartments, Mrs. Chichin Shain, before you finish, add them up, so it's 1225. And as for the shortcomings, you know where the biggest shortcomings on the work and on Cres are and none of them started by the former HDZ government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4046	Correction of an incorrect quote from colleague Chichin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4047	Here, if you'll excuse me, I'd say the biggest drawbacks were to the population of the Treasure of Zadar that they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4048	I'm sorry, my colleague, but you're not correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4049	Well, that's exactly what I'm saying. Well. The incorrect allegation is that they are not the largest shortages on the population in Rab, but that the biggest shortages on the facilities are Blago Zadar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4050	Come on, now you've corrected yourself. We're continuing the debate. Now we've finally exhausted the debate by the representatives' clubs. An individual debate has begun. The right to the turn will be colleague Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4051	Thank you. Dear Vice President, colleagues, members of the government. Faster harder or the mind, the spirit body. It is a motto under which athletes all over the world will participate in the biggest sports events this year in the Olympic and two weeks later nothing less important Paralympic Games in Athens. More, less from all countries of the world, but unfortunately for Croatian Paralympics I am not quite convinced by looking at the draft budget for 2004 item 577031. 149th with the promotion of the sport of disabled persons. In Croatia, 11,000 athletes with physical disability, 1000 deaf athletes and 700 blind and undersighted athletes joined in 28 county alliances were registered. In 2004, the year in which the Olympic and Paralympic Games were held, for these reasons, the needs of people with disabilities during 2004 were increased since the planned performance at the Parisian games representing the finalisation of the quarterly cycle. Paralympic games are the competition of the world's best athletes with invecility. Two weeks after the Olympic Games on the same battlefields that will be adapted for access to all persons with disabilities. The biggest sports event to be held in the period from 17th to 28th September 2004 should be attended by Croatian athletes with disabilities who have reached standards for the Parolimpic Games in the following sports. Athletics, dressy riding, swimming, table tennis and dating. There are also possibilities for the performance of the presses in the wheelchair, bottles with cellular paralysis and cyclists. On the world ranking list the best sportsmen with disabled high places are occupied by Croatian athletes with disabilities, one of the passengers at the Parolimpic Games in Athens. Mihoville Spain swimmer takes second, third and fourth place by discipline. Jelena Vuković is second on the world ranking list, Marija Iveković, athlete first and second, Ana Srčen swimmer 10th, Natasa Sobočan swimer 14 on the world ranking list. Here present fellow athletes I believe well know how much effort and energy is needed to achieve standards for participation in games. And for the category of athletes with disabilities, there's more. Due to the lack of training and inaccessibility of the battlefield due to unequal scholarships compared to top athletes of the Olympics. Because of the prejudices of media ignoring, the results of athletes with disabilities are more about measuring a stopwatch or a meter. I've often heard the word "responsibility" today. In real life, however, this means that the amount of 2 million and 140 thousand kuna required to promote the sport of disabled people is planned. Only 40,000 kunas more than last year does this mean consistent in ignoring athletes with disabilities in taking responsibility for not going to Croatia's Paralympics in Athens and to no less significant sports competition of the world's deaf person who will be held from 5th to 15th January 2005 whose programme prepares and activities prepare and activities are related to the 2004 budget. The comparisons are made by the Republic of Slovenia in the regular financing of disabled athletes from the state budget of 8 to 9 million tolars and 25 million tolars in the Olympic and Pre-Olympic and Paralympic Year. I believe that our society, society for all equal opportunities and shared cultural and material value sharing through the sport of people with disabilities, is also encouraged to change ways of thinking in society and is based on the new right of every human being to equal opportunities. Ensuring equal opportunities for people with disabilities is a process during which the general system of society becomes accessible to all. February 12th of this year was held the selection of the most successful athlete of the year for people with disabilities in Croatia. On that occasion, Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor promised to present athletes that she would work with her authority on a better and fairer treatment of athletes with disabilities. I believe that Minister Kosor is not an irresponsible person, who would only promise such a thing and that the government will find a way to budget the necessary 8 million kuna for the needs of the athletes with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4052	Thank you very much, colleague Škulić. It's my friend Maria Byte's turn. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4053	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. The state budget should be one of the key development documents and all kinds of reconstruction of the Croatian state. I consider it part of the overall policy of economic and social development for the proposal of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 within the framework of existing opportunities I must say that both social and developmental. Despite the fact that the deadlines for its proposal were too short and that it was burdened with the transferred commitments of 2003 amounting to €6.5 billion. The proposal for a state budget for 2004 meets part of the promise in the domain of social care with an increase of around 700 million kuna compared to 2003 and is also stimulating for economic growth. The main objective of the budget will be to ensure the macroeconomic stability of the Republic of Croatia and to open a development cycle in the economy. This strategic document for 2004 offers the possibility for a new face of Croatia, as it is in line with the new government programme that provides greater social sensitivity, encouraging demographic renewal in the Republic of Croatia and restoring dignity to Croatian defenders. The family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity increases its budget compared to 2003 by more than a billion kuna and 23%, respectively. I therefore welcome new items such as the rehabilitation of Croatian military disabled people in healthcare facilities with a million 500 thousand kunas, social empowerment of the family and the improvement of family policy and the quality of family life with 13 million and 800 thousand kuna, projects for multi-member families in the protection of motherhood and youth with around 11 million kuna, and support for children and young people, alimony fund, and the return of additional maternity leave from 422 thousand 670 thousand kuna. Family in the Republic of Croatia gets a new place, role and support. Also in care for older citizens, the development of service activities along the living room are new Croatian government programmes with proposed 18 million 370 thousand kuna. The item for which I have asked for an increase over the past four years has regularly written an amendment to compensation for former political prisoners whose budget in this proposal has increased from 45 million to 70 million kuna. So the debt for damages to former political prisoners with 300 million kuna will be reduced to 230 million kuna. And in the draft budget, I therefore take note of the principle of justice, because it is the suffering people of a different age. I am aware that in our current situation, it is difficult to set priorities, which we would all agree on. I therefore welcome and support the orientation of the Croatian government by which one of the priorities is to invest in science, education and culture, because this is our capital investment and the foundation of the future of the Croatian people. 6% more funding for science and education, amounting to 466 million kuna than in 2003, and 32 million kuna for the newly created education institute will strengthen the scientific education system. The state must worry about education and education if it does not want a lagging Croatia. I advocate a modern school that can meet the challenges of the 21st century, without questioning national self-awareness and recognition. The long-term, aggressive development of the Croatian state cannot be without systematic education policy and shift within the educational system. I therefore thank you for continuing the capital building of the gymnasium with a sports hall in Požega with 10 million kuna. As well as co-financing for accommodation and nutrition of students of the Požeško Student Centre with 2 million kuna. In addition to the regular activity of universities in the Republic of Croatia with 35 million 920 thousand kuna, the Implementing Law should enable universities and the employment of their own professional teaching staff. And this year I ask support for the teaching facility of vineyards and orchards. Regular activity, national and university libraries remained at the level of 2003, so I would like to warn that the new building of the national and university library in Zagreb opened on 28 May 1995. After planning the construction of the NSK 70s design and preparation for the construction of the 80s in the early 1990s, such a construction programme was defined, which resulted in completed and equipped part, the largest part of the building of the national and university library, with 82 total space. However, 18% of the total useful area of the facility did not remain arranged. In the near future of 2007, the National and University Library will mark the 400th anniversary of the continuous action. Therefore, I ask that within the scope of the Croatian budget, funds be found until that year to be fully operational, because we consider this to be our capital investment. Therefore, I note that it is within the scope of being able to monitor the completion of the building of a national and university library. I would also ask that the government consider increasing Croatia's resources to the academic research network Carnet, due to a significant increase in many users and the replacement of outdated and use of new technologies. The budget of the Ministry of Culture with 7.5% higher than in 2003, Croatian culture is part of the Croatian National Identity, and in times of globalisation by culture we are recognized and decorated. The ministry of culture with the Ministry of Tourism, Transport and Development continues to restore the war-broken sacral heritage. Therefore, I ask that the construction of the parish church of the March of the Blessed Virgin Mary be continued in Vocino and Pakrac. In the area of conservation of cultural heritage, the draft budget proposed means of protective work on immovable heritage is 100 million kuna. And in Požega-Slavon County, I ask that the monument of St. The Trinity Church of St. Avilian Teresa, St. Ghost, City Museum in Požega, and Old Town in Kaptola. For movable heritage, 16 million kunas are secured. The position of literary publishing and library is 49 million kuna and the ministry should continue projects that Mr. Biškupić then organised in the mid-90s. The proposed budget also allows for improving the social security situation of independent artists whose rights for the term of office of the last government have been significantly reduced, with regard to health and pension security insurance. The budget position is 30 million kuna, and is more than doubled compared to 2003. The trouble facing which the Ministry of Culture was in this year is that it must pay a debt of 68 million 524 thousand kuna from last year. In the area of nature protection, resources are provided for the development of protected areas including Nature Park, which is part of the Požeško-Slavonska and Virovitičko-Podravska County. I would also advocate that, as soon as possible, the restoration of the house of Antun Gustav Matoš in Tovarnik is possible. Since I am a representative of the V. Electoral Unit coming from Požega-Slavonska, Brod-Posavina and Vukovar-Srijem County, I would also refer to Section 060 05 of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy for which a system of payment has been established for the end-user of state support on his behalf. It is also good that part of organic production is encouraged through the Law on State aid through increased amounts compared to conventional law-enhancing production. I especially support this because in Požega-Slavon County there is an increasing number of family economies dealing with the production of healthy food, cow and goat milk and products from them. The proposal for a budget of the new Croatian government was made in a very short time, burdened with debts on the trail of pre-election promises and development programmes. Promoting faster economic development, encouraging investment, greater social sensitivity, halting unemployment growth, more professional foreign policy management are important decisions by the Croatian government and the draft budget for 2004. So I will also support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4054	Thank you, colleague Byte. Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4055	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. I've already been worried that I won't be able to correct one wrong piece of information, but no one will say it and it says it in the materials. Now Mrs. Byte has just said this information and this information is that the Ministry of Culture has passed this time and that there are 7.5% more resources in culture. Mrs. Byte, the Ministry of Culture is a matter of natural heritage and part of the costs that the Ministry of Environment had previously incurred. The Ministry of Culture has just received 5 million less in items one by one than the previous ministry had. Your other allegations to the guy that the Ministry of Culture has left some 60 million kuna debt I won't comment on, not a single June has a debt. The way of funding in culture is known, works on the Euphras basilica are not being stopped because a new financial year is awaiting. You said a few more things, but since I'm going to have a chance to talk about it. Yes, please, and this amendment. No, that's what I said. The rights of independent artists were reduced. The government has returned all rights by its regulation and they have increased since copyright taxes have been reduced by 40% compared to the previous period. But there's going to be a chance for a supplement. I'm glad for these 7.5% that it's been well heard by anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4056	Thank you very much. It's time for my dear dear Zgrebec's esteemed colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4057	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The state budget is undoubtedly the most important document parliament brings in a year and it is an expression of the implementation of the government's proposed programme. Although we are looking at an explanation or we are looking at an explanation with this proposed budget if we analyse economic indicators and an explanation of budget revenues then I will quote something from this explanation where it is said that, for example, income growth, budget revenues are the result of economic growth, and then this is explained in a way that income tax did not fall despite higher tax reliefs due to an increase in employment and gross wages, that profit tax is significantly increasing due to the good business of the company and the growth of industrial production and the increase in income, that VAT growth is the result of economic growth and personal consumption, etc. This is the government's best recognition that Croatia was launched as regards the economy already in 2001. This is reflected in this table of macroeconomic indicators and in the written explanation of this budget. However, when assessing the slowdown of macroeconomic indicators for 2004 then each government should take new measures of economic policy and present new programmes that cannot be seen in the proposed budget for this year but only the slow-down continuity of the work started. The reduction in the rate of GDP growth for conservative planning, as explained by the finance minister, is only an alibi for the absence of new projects that would lead to greater growth when the cycle of economic growth slows down. Planning can be conservative. Therefore, revenue and expenditure of the budget can be lower than the projected growth rate, but the reduction of targets inevitably also brings a reduction in results. Let's look at it in this budget through revenue and expenditure. Income growth is 6.4%, nominal gross income growth is 5.6%, so slightly lower than that growth but above average income growth records dividend revenue by about 160% and oil derivatives costs by about 20% while reducing projects that should be financed or given up by projects that should be financed from such increased revenues. The expenditure goes up by 7%. I am very glad that here, which will listen to me, is currently not being listened to by the Vice-President of the Government of Ms. Kosor because she has always had significant objections sometimes and with the right to certain expenditures that were neither against citizens nor projects that bring development. For example, in expenditures more than 7% of the expenditure on official travel 18.5%, 145 million, intellectual services 51%, other services 42%, unremarked expenditures 145%, expenses for representation 13%. It is interesting for the team to, for example, plan for one anniversary of the high court of trade, so for this anniversary which may be a day or two to spend a team of 240 thousand kuna. In total, these costs are higher if they increase to only 7% by 453 million kuna. So there we could increase those subsidies for the railways we're reducing. The reduction of funds towards HBOR, the Development and Employment Fund and the Regional Development Fund and not the continuation of further decentralisation is very poorly reflected not only on economic growth but also on projects in local self-government. I'm going to show it to an example of my Međimurje County. A transfusion in Međimurje County has been halved. Funding for existing programmes is reduced. The existing projects financed from 2001 to 2003 are less than the agreed amounts in certain ministries. The new projects of municipalities and cities are not included in the state budget at all. For example, we have no guarantee that the city of Zrinjski will be restored to Čakovec for which the documentation, the entire project documentation, is completed and should be refurbished faster in this monument of the culture of the zeroth category. For example, for the sewerage of the town of Čakovec with the corresponding settlements here in the budget is called Wastewater Disposal of Nedelisce instead of an agreement signed and two years after the payment of 2.5 million kuna from the state budget is now planned only one million and 500 thousand kuna. Building the building or building of basic schools in Kotoriba and Orehovica, for which projects are made when it should start with works and when we had promises that they would be co-financed from the budget, not only from decentralised funds because these schools attend already at this point more than 1/3 children, the Roma population of course is not in the budget at all. The last payment of buildings to expand the need for higher education in Čakovec amounting to 4 million 885 thousand kuna, so far 8 million kuna has been paid, of course not in the budget. For the General Hospital in Čakovec where the contract found that in the first year of work, the budget will need to be co-financed with 4 million 850 thousand kuna, we have only 740 thousand kuna. I've already said that the county transfer has been halved and that's the county that has the lowest wages because it has the largest number of labour-intense companies, companies with a labour-intense economy and low profitability rates. We're talking about, we're a county bordering two countries that are entering the European Union this year. The border crossing towards Slovenia in the Mursko centre is in the central city square. During the tourist season, traffic communication in the city is interrupted, citizens announce civil disobedience and daily blocking of the border crossing. The city council discussed it and ultimatically asked to address the problem. The problem, i.e. the promise to build a road crossing along the existing railway crossing in Kotoriba, is not direct to the border of Hungary, of course not in the budget. On the other hand, there are 7 villages on the Hungarian side of 7 villages with a Croatian population that are very interested in this transition. In the Ministry of Culture we have 5 projects for the rehabilitation or construction of cultural centres, in our county there are very many needs for cultural centres and cultural homes. We have 14 municipalities planned to go to first, build first, or second or third industrial zones or entrepreneurial zones. A very, strong development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in our county is actually looking for new, there is, needs new regulated building land to build new plants. The mayoral court in Čakovec, works in the congested areas of the municipal court. There are, there are two buildings in which the owner of the state, they are located in the office, or in this Office of State Property Management. It should also be relocated by the county court and the county state's attorney's office to new areas that should be adapted. Of course, there's no such thing as a proposal for this state budget. It is clear that we cannot be satisfied in the township of Međemurje through the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4058	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor will speak. Here you go, Mrs. Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4059	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Representative, I'm glad you mentioned it, and my sleep is like an advocate and I was glad to say that I was ever right. Thank you very much for that. So, I'd say something about the three items you mentioned, official travel, they've been increased in the 2004 budget. I believe you're absolutely clear on why. Here, since the start of the term of office of this government, the foreign minister is constantly on the road, he has visited all European countries, he could be constantly said on the tour, it is known for what purpose. Also the President of the Croatian Government, Dr. Ivo Sanader, welcome guest everywhere, of course. It can be clearly assumed on this basis what the pace of travel will be by the end of this year. As regards items like the rest of us don't mention... and, for example, intellectual services, I can tell you that by the time the government votes on the budget, or until the vote on amendments, it will also consider these items once more at the cabinet's meeting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4060	Correction of an incorrect quote, colleague Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4061	It is incorrect that there is now a need for greater travel than it was from 2000 to 2004. Mrs. Kosor, representatives of the Croatian government have been welcome guests in the world since 2000. So then it was meant to travel and separate jobs for these purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4062	On behalf of the promoter, Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4063	Dear Madam MPs, Mr. Vice President, I do not know what is incorrect in my explanation, so we are very precise on the basis of the need, based on the travel plan prepared this proposal with an official trip to the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, I did not mention in any word the trips made by ministers in the past government, nor did the last prime minister talk about the travel plan for ministers and for the Prime Minister in 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4064	Thank you very much, I would only ask the representatives of the government not to be put into office as representatives. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Antolovic has a word. But you need to fit in to the rest of the room for up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4065	Let me say that the exact fact that the Ministry of Culture, in spite of the fact of the expansion of the area with the protection of nature and cooperation with UNESCO, has a higher budget of 7.5% and in terms of the debt transferred, would only say that, as far as the 2003 cultural development programme is concerned, we have transferred and received debts relating to the museum's gallery activities amounting to 2 million kuna, for the musical-scale activity of 913 thousand kuna for the activity of amateurism 309 thousand kuna, to support the publication of the book 5 million 383 thousand kuna, to support the issue of the journal 836 thousand kuna, to support the national libraries 3 million 289 thousand kuna, for the literary work of....marisation 275,000 kuna that I do not add further, the total cultural development programmes are not paid with contracted funds from 2003, amounting to EUR 34 million, while the monuments of programmes that were due to be paid to 33 million in 2003. This total of 68 million 524 thousand kuna and also to remind the yacht that the budget of the Minister of Culture by rebalancing in 2003 practically ran out of 31 million 459 thousand kuna, which was already agreed in accordance with the technology that funds are being allocated to the Ministry of Culture. Also, as far as free artists are concerned, it should be said that last year it was approved in the budget of 12 million kuna to pay mandatory contributions. The regulation mentioned was only passed before the elections and applied from 1 this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4066	Thank you very much for correcting the incorrect quote, esteemed resident Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4067	Mr. President, Mr. Antolovic, who certainly knows the work of the Ministry of Culture very well, since he has been very much involved in it, would also have to know very well that one is a transfer of obligations and that another is debts. The way the Ministry of Culture is financed through a public call for culture has continuity. And if they're good programs, they're never one year old, they're continuous. It's a practice that goes from every year to every year. But also from one government to another government. If we're already complaining about what I might do on another occasion, then I'm going to warn you of an experience I had in 2000 when it comes to film. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4068	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4069	Well, sir... He spoke after my presentation and it is incorrect that I spoke neither of the debts of the Ministry of Culture. [[You don't understand.]] I was talking about the projects that our county ran for office didn't enter the culture ministry didn't go into the culture ministry's budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4070	Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4071	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Government, gentlemen of fellow Members and colleagues. I would, of course, limit myself in my contribution to the state budget for that domain I know best, i.e. the cultures from which I come and yet perhaps narrow the activity, which is music. The general fact is that culture unfortunately spends more and more than it does. It is obvious in its nature unless it is of course part of a commercial that often does not have the right cultural omen that we would all like. That is why, it seems to me that in this proposal for a budget on culture, one item was given importance in view of some projects that we could all hear and read about together these days and look at something. In fact, it is an international cultural activity which is also financed by the Ministry of Culture. It is a Croatian cultural product. I don't even know if we know what that is, which should be compared to what it is in the world, and it's been quite a number of years. The cultural product that might in some future bring some material cultural breakthrough to Croatia is certainly what is recognised in some countries as their authentic, specific and very indigenous. We started, i.e. the Ministry of Culture with a Croatian cultural product project in collaboration with a musician emigrant, patriot Nenado Bach who lives in America and who has been trying for several years to place Croatian music on his market, the country's market in which he lives. Of course it's not classical music either, because we can't compete with Bach, Mozart or anything like that in the world. The fact is that Bach and Mozart in the world, unfortunately, but that's right, they play better than we do. So we can only be recognized in the world by something of our own autochton, of course by national what was recently recognized as a "presence" culture under quotes. I don't think that's bad at all if we approach with good intentions, but also with a well-developed strategy of such a project. Mr. Bach, with the support of the Ministry of Culture today of this new government, and I assume that this was built into the international cultural cooperation programme he wants to go out on the world market at the moment with a modified ethno melos, so with the benches of his choice. We already have successes on an international plan that is achieved with the jazz ethno melos Tamara Obrovac. There have also been other controversial steps into the world. However, nothing has ever been systematically considered and agreed that in this case Croatia would actually come to the world not only in one different way than that I would say more decorative and declarative when sending philharmonics or opera ensembles or any other ensembles to the days of Croatian culture or similar manifestations where they are already sent by nature of things. If we want to be at least as recognizable in the world as they are, for example, the Irish with their step-like dances, but not step-like dances, they are their national dances, as much as Portugal is recognised in the world with its fado music, how recognizable in the world are, for example, Hungarians with their Roma orchestras. You could still count yourself up. For example, Bulgaria with its monumental choirs, then we could really do with modified Croatian ethno music, regardless of whether it will be the valves in the production of Mr Bach, and with the help of the Ministry of Culture or it will be Tamara Obrovac or someone else, I think it is one of the absolutes of the best roads that we can present to the world that we are part of European and world culture, but with absolutely retained indigenous features. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4072	Thank you. Honorable representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4073	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, members of the government and ministers. Well, it's normal for everyone to present their ideas and suggestions in every budget debate because it's also normal for everyone to have their own vision of the budget. On this occasion, I would like to say that with this budget that we are discussing today, the Government has sent us a clear message as to what kind of policy it will lead. It is, anyway, every budget. This morning we had a chance to hear from the Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader said that the main objectives of the State budget proposal for this year are to support macroeconomic stability and the economy, the fight against unemployment, social responsibility with greater expenditure on pensions, defenders and childbirth, and support for bodies responsible for strengthening Croatia's convergence with Euro-Atlantic integration. The draft budget was made under the conditions of expected slowdown in economic growth and is limited by a high amount for repayments of debts. This year, about 22 billion kuna is coming in full. 16.8 billion capital and about 5 billion kuna interest. In addition, more than 6 billion kunas of financial liabilities transferred by the former government this year are limited. It is also necessary to warn when we are talking about this budget and the fact that the high external debt that reached $23.7 billion at the end of 2003, and it is particularly important that we are concerned - the dynamics of this debt's growth - because it increased by 8.2 billion in 2003 alone. However, this is the way the proposed budget supports macroeconomic stability through the deficit reduction, and provides funds to pay the interest of 530 million kuna in health care, 100 million kuna for court disputes, billions of kunas to Croatian highways, etc. It is evident that the budget also provides funds for employment programmes and that the budget is socially responsible and that it increases pension, defenders and childbirth allocations, and also what is seen, that is to support and the authorities of the state administration responsible for strengthening Croatia's convergence with Euro-Atlantic integration. The government has managed to make a budget within the limits of what can be expected at this time. With this budget, the government shows us exactly what it wants to do, and this is a desire for monetary and fiscal stability in the country to reduce deficits and make responsible policies more responsible in any case than the previous government. Knowing in particular the expertise and tenacity, but also the former job of Mr. Shucker's Finance Minister, I am sure that this proposal of the state budget has taken the first step at the request that the state operate in a better way and that state finances be more transparent. In this sense, there is indeed my belief that all of these projects that Mrs. Zgrebec spoke about as regards the Međimurje County will find space in the budget for the following year, because there will be no such budget and debt breach of six billion kunas, and already some of these projects she spoke of, which I also support as a resident of Međimurje in any case, and I think that some of them and through items in the Ministry of Culture, I know for certain reasons that a certain amount is provided for the recovery of the Old Town, but not as a special item. I know that the item for the development of entrepreneurship zones, encouraging the development of entrepreneurship zones are also the means for these entrepreneurship zones that are sought here by the budget particularly highlighted, I am convinced that neither Međimurje because all the items that have been and all the projects and activities and programmes that have been launched and started in previous years continue. Because of this thinking and my personal hope that in the 2005 budget, we will find even more funding for items in relation to the Međimurje County, I will certainly support this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4074	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4075	I want to correct the incorrect allegations of Agent Pleshe that he must repay a debt of 590 million kuna in health care. He is incorrect above all that debt was created by the decision of the Croatian government, the new Croatian government. It is a debt of different institutions which has nothing to do with the state's obligations, but the state has decided and taken over the debt in the public debt of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, I want to know what is true and incorrect, because the introduction of these incorrect allegations confuses the Croatian public further. A recent or permanent health minister declares that it is 7 billion and 300 million in debt, we have heard here today from both MPs and Minister 590 million. I think such bidding is both unacceptable and incorrect and inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4076	Dear Representative Drago Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4077	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here, as with any adoption of the budget, I repeat, I believe an old story that is not unique to this Parliament alone, but to all parliaments where it is done, and somehow it is the conclusion that the budget for social beneficiaries is never sufficiently socially sensitive, for entrepreneurs is never sufficiently economically promotional, for cultural workers it always turns out to be very few funds. Finally, there is really no money that we cannot spend, and we can really say that it is one common thought of the budget. However, what comes out of the usual framework here is that this government has prepared a budget in a very short period of time, not by giving up good projects from before, but also by appreciating its own projects that it has drawn up in the pre-election campaign. No matter what the terms of this budget are already said on several occasions, I would like to remind you of something. The fact is that the past government took over the state in 2000 under really very difficult circumstances in the legacy of war, large internal debts, indifference and commendation is a really great effort that has made such indifference, i.e. indifference to rectification, to repay debts, and I fear that only in this too much urgency has the government begun to leave to the new government to collect those projects that have not yet been completed or that will yet be done. So I repeat it once again, it really leaves a narrowed room for the government who wants to implement through the budget of its own projects so that I personally think that it is good and that the Ministry of Finance has indeed made a budget that may have made some flour and a little water a bread in which there will be no bread at the end of the year for those who have become too fat, but surely the state will make sure that there is no hunger. .... /For cell phone ringing, you get microphones and the speaker sounds bad./... Personally, I think that the local administration didn't go well in this budget and I share the thoughts of the colleagues who talked about it before me, and I'm really afraid if I put up an amendment now that the only possible thing for my county would be getting something from my neighbors, the neighbor would take it from another neighbor, eventually some neighbor would take it from me and go back to the same position and, therefore, in the budget, the next one would certainly have to be kept and on that far more accounts. Reiterating that I consider this budget realistic, the only one possible at this time, the budget that continues to be well-started projects of the former governments and assumes the commitments of the former governments, but also the budget that realises the pre-election promises which makes it politically credible and I will personally support it. And in the end, I want to bring out something that seems to me here most of the speakers have said or at least they agree. Namely, the fact that any government in Croatia that has lost elections, which is usually felt in the last year, has been acting very broadly in the last year so that the commitments are usually even bigger, the debts usually increase even more so that the new government is really in a situation that its own projects that it has promoted in the pre-election campaign cannot be realised on their own. I hope that will really be the last time that the former government creates the budget of the future government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4078	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4079	Dear Mr. President, Deputy Prime Minister, members of the government. There have been a lot of speeches about this budget today and many arguments have been made that have either been praised or defiled. I would say that the budget is made with a basic goal of maintaining macroeconomic stability and that exactly the expenditure side of the budget of 5.7% corresponds to reality, so it respects inflation foreseen by 2.5% and the growth of gross national income of 3.2%. And that's what makes me happy, because we're finally putting ourselves in the frames of a possible one. The budget is difficult to make because the desires and needs are ever greater than what can be realized realistically. And that's why I think the budget was done well and that it should be supported, and what I would now look at is part of the budget relating to health care. The materials show that the Ministry of Health and Social Care received 716 million more in this year than it was last year, is that enough? Certainly not enough to the extent to which health programmes should be implemented in optimal form but will be sufficient to meet all the needs provided for within the scope of the rights of our insurance companies. It is important to note something else, there has been constant talk of old debts, in the finance ministry's budget, credits that come at a charge of 2.5 billion kuna this year, as well as this loan to resuscitate 533 million. So it's basically 3 billion dollars per budget that's for health care alone, 14 billion dollars. And these are the facts that show that the government has made sure when drawing up the budget that the health care cut, i.e. the Croatian Health Insurance Office releases these obligations and that these 14 billion will be provided just for the health care and compensation provided for there. When we talk about the second part of the capital investment budget, then it should be reminded that last year 233 million were spent from the funds of the Ministry of Capital Investments, and that this year, 246 million and 966 thousand were foreseen for this purpose, so little more than that, I would say that something that has not been introduced in these items, which I think is important to highlight. In the debate so far, we have heard that disabled people have been neglected, and in this particular one I would say to the thin budget for health care still envisioned a million kunas to remove architectural barriers in public institutions, so to allow for better access to those institutions with disabilities. The same thing that last year was not 2 million and 300,000 is foreseen for waste management in healthcare, which is a growing problem as well as 4 times as much resources for the national protection programme on the islands of 10 million kuna. Also this year, something that was not expected last year to increase funds for an 850,000 transplant programme and also for emergency health interventions of 20 million kuna. What is important to point out is that this budget also envisioned health incentives in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so this is something that has been forgotten so far, and we are thus showing that we are also taking care of our citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to health care. For this reason, I would point out that this budget of 14 million for health care is an election between the settlement of debts that have been inherited and I don't think it should be disputed anymore that is the fact that they have to be resolved, and that hospital care in this year will be possible to be realised in 6 billion 126 million kunas, so those funds will certainly represent a difficult environment for hospital work because they spent 7 billion last year. This certainly won't be easy but the envisaged measures of rationalisation and strict consumer control are expected to provide health care in hospitals in an adequate way, because we are talking about figures that will be equal to last year's budget to a monthly hospital, so from about 505 to 510 million kuna. The problem now is that it is present because of this temporary funding when over the first 3 months 600 million kuna is missing in the system and it is certainly a problem that will now be burdened by hospitals primarily because it was not possible to find funds by accelerated withdrawal because until the budget is adopted this part of health activity in possible problems because if the budget is not accepted within the planned time and its adoption is prolonged then this third month could be slow and therefore, such accelerated withdrawals have been abandoned. But I hope that this budget after today's debate will be adopted and that the health care system will be able to do normal business and therefore, once again, I appeal to accept it because I believe it is real.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4080	I'd like to thank Mr. Baric. There is a correction to the incorrect allegations by Ms. Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4081	Mr. Vice-President, I want to correct the incorrect assumption that the promotion and assistance of health care in Bosnia and Herzegovina by the Croatian government from the Croatian budget has been forgotten. The allegations were completely incorrect, on the contrary, in the last 4 years of the former government's mandate for a very transparent, clear, recognizable and highly quality assessment and welcomed by Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the needs of health care services throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina have been financed and promoted, as evidenced by completed or projects under way from the smallest hospitals, health homes to clinical hospital institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4082	Thank you very much. The replica was reported by Mr. Representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4083	Thank you very much, so I don't know about the problems caused by the temporary funding on several occasions, but it might be good for HDZ and HDZ government representatives and the prime minister himself to comply with the statements. This morning we listened to how good it was that the government didn't bring in the budget, the former government sorry, but to bring in the temporary funding. At the same time, we listen to some of the criticism that goes towards these problems stemming from temporary funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4084	Thank you very much. Reply to replica Mr. Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4085	Look, I think this story is about temporary funding. Perhaps the termological I did not say well, but the temporary budget for health care this year is less than requested. 3 billion were sought and 200 were sought exactly as required under the law. It had to be the same as the first three months of last year, however 450 million were set down and problems arose.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4086	Thank you very much. Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4087	Mr. Vice President, I'd like to help the MPs. This is because the esteemed representative Lucin appeared around this dilemma of temporary financing, or temporary budget. It is good that the past government has not made a budget for this year because it has waited for elections to come and a new government is being formed, or a new Parliament, and then a majority in Parliament. But it is also true that the provisional budget or temporary funding covered about a month and a half to two months. So on some projects not so much and that's what I'm guessing Mr. Baric was talking about and that's what the problem is and that's what, one of the main reasons why we're in a hurry with the adoption of the budget at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4088	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mrs. Željka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4089	Mr. Vice-President, shortly before Mrs. Babic-Petricevic raised a plate for breach of the Rules of Procedure and called for me to hurt Article 209. Rules of Procedure. I have now later checked, determined that she has misused this because she has made false statements calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you have not warned her as chairman of this abuse. That's why you hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4090	So did you because you didn't call on the article you're now calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4091	209.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4092	That's what you prescribed to this lady, in the context of Mrs. Zdenko's statement that she called for article 209, and you didn't call for any articles.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4093	I only called later, I'm sorry. Whether at the beginning of a sentence or at the end, and other than that, I accept a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4094	Thank you very much. Have we exhausted these, these corrections? [[Intruder: It's crucial that she told a lie.]] We did. Thank you. He has the word representative Mr. Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4095	Dear Mr. President, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I'll try to wake you up a little bit. Here's what we're gonna do, first we're gonna go with the budget. We're all talking about some numbers today, about the budget less, minus, more numbers. I think we can all do that forever. Let's go completely into the budget and look at it and then we'll all realize that this budget was made the way it could have been done in the current situation. We're not all so smart right now to talk about how much millions got someone less, the more. We'll always find minuses and pluses. Because the government didn't take the money if she gave someone less so she put it in her pocket than she gave it to someone who needed it. So that's how we handle it. I'm glad that Mrs. Sulic called from your party and started talking about sports. Yeah, I'll hook up. For four years there has been a law on sports in this House. Four years times 365 days, let's figure out what that is. Three hours of unfulfilled debate over sports. The law never came to life. It's canceled. Let's do a new one. We're losing three to four months again. We were talking about the Olympics. The Olympics are in three months, four. She's been preparing for the Olympics for four years, gentlemen. We need to work for four years to get to the Olympics. But now we remember in February, in late February, that what happened to the Olympics. Normally, the problem is that in this home, the High House was not discussing sports, Olympics or Paralympics. We talked a lot about culture here today. Congratulations to the culture ministers that they have managed to isolate culture, raise it to one level high and all the honor they have made possible the funds they have. I congratulate them once again, and I am proud that this country is investing in culture. It's a poor country that doesn't care about its culture. Let's move on. If we're going to talk about sports in general, we can talk about three things in sports: how to finance sports under number 1. Number two facilities, sports facilities in ours. We don't even know today, we don't know whose objects they are. We know, and we don't want to know. The facilities are state property, but they are considered private property. It bothers many, apparently, so he never came to life with the Sport Act. We also have this situation that today we have people preparing for the Olympic Games. They don't have their terms. They don't even have one cocoa, a canoe, that I'm not talking about some more expensive stuff. I spoke with the president of the Croatian Olympic Committee. Gentlemen, we still don't know if our athletes are going to the Olympics. It's not paid. Look out, it's three months till the Olympics. We have things and now I'm just going to tell you one thing that we adopted in terms of the Croatian Olympic Committee which means sport for, meaning sport for the state. So, sport has, since its very beginning, been a function of a coherent development of human, community and society. So the sports community is trying to contribute to the quality of youth building as a athlete and as a person. In view of today's perspective, and knowing that we live in the light of global communication sport is, sport has become a global industry wanted me to admit it or not. An important, important economic branch of many countries that are much more developed than we are. So this fact isn't, this fact wasn't recognized by the former government because it didn't deal with one basic thing, it's the Sport Act. So sports workers are currently in the “Beautiful Ours” with whom I had the opportunity to talk to all, most sports workers yes, that they were working on the edge of the law. Because when there's no law then thank God it's easy and breaking... So today we have huge debts from all sports clubs that have reached one level that I find ugly to tell in front of this public, in front of the entire Croatian public who are minuses in Croatian sport. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] All of this comes from the fact that we didn't have that Sport Act to set ourselves up at one point that we should go from. I agree with Mrs. Representative, Miss Representative, who is, of course, Škulic who has said the Paralympics. Yeah. She, uh, we know each other well, and she knows that I've taken up special care of those cases of people with disabilities. And on all their... I answer and help as much as I can. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm gonna keep trying, and I don't want there ever to be a difference between us athletes and we were Olympics and now the Paralympics. It's the same for me, and it would have to be the same for everyone. Although they are much harder to participate in sports at the Olympic Games than we are. I'll tell you more about sports funding. That when it comes to financing sports, it's totally neglected. We have, unfortunately, a situation that we have that if we wanted to finance our sport, that people give it, people of good faith would say. Unfortunately, we feel very hit by athletes here. We have no one to talk to. We had someone to talk to. He says you show up, pick up, you've got the law, so hold him. We don't have the law. Whatever we asked, he can't. We don't have rules. We don't know how much gambling belongs to us. We've got sports bookies. We don't know what's in it for us. We've got marketing. My men's pa marketing in sports is currently leading. Otherwise, life is all about good marketing. And we don't have anything. So we end up with a lot of resources that you'd like to be, it could be geared to athletes and athletes with disabilities. I'd still say I'm very surprised that as a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, I've been sitting there all day waiting for him to read a report from our session that lasted over two hours yesterday. That no one had read what we were doing on the board, that no one had said anything, and we were really praised by the president of our board of honorary colleague Vidovic. And today we wait for these praises to read the results which were mostly 8:2 to adopt this budget. But there's nothing. Maybe the result was different, maybe the first one was read, I don't know the rule. And I'm just gonna tell you in the end, I see my lamp's on fire. In the end, I'm just going to tell you one thing that's very important, and I hope that we try to keep this budget going by the end of this year, because the next budget is going to start with a positive zero and it's not going to start at minus 6.5 billion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4096	I'd like to thank the representative. ... [[speaks off, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4097	Thank you very much. Well, there were more false allegations, maybe I should start with the one that's very important, which is that sports facilities aren't state property after all, but most of them are actually owned by local self-government units. and the former government, knowing that this is a heavy burden, has often helped these units of local self-government to maintain and restore certain sports facilities. And how much did the former government invest in sports or facilities and maintaining those facilities if we had a column from last year or before last year, it would be visible, but unfortunately since we don't have it, it can't be compromised. And I think it's incorrect like this without arguments to accuse the former government of failures or bad sports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4098	Thank you very much. I don't know, which is the injured Rules of Procedure, but if the Rules of Procedure isn't hurt, then we're gonna have to sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4099	Well, I think the gentleman hurt the Rules of Procedure. He made his point, and he didn't kill my allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4100	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Have you heard from Mr. Korenik? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4101	Mr. Vice President. Mr. Arabovic incorrectly found that clubs worked on the edge of the law especially with regard to paying off financial resources to their players, members of the administration, etc. Because there's no law on sports. It's simply incorrect, because financial payments and everything else are under some other law dear colleagues do. So, the Sports Act exists, there's no new Sport Act, but there's always some law that regulates things, there's only so much to know. In addition, Croatian athletes and you said this incorrectly, they have someone to contact because the Croatian Olympic Committee is a roof institution for all Croatian athletes. So don't go with your flat-rates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4102	Thank you very much. The word has a esteemed representative Branimir Pasecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4103	Mr. Vice President, I'll start with one finding. That little things often run significant parts of life. In the life of small communities small initiatives, significant projects are being launched that ultimately have major effects. For such initiatives, the means are often purely symbolic. In order to truly launch Croatia in the budgets, funds for such initiatives as life means in small areas should be provided. What I was about to say specifically. In this House, I represent a part of the area that lies along the Zagreb-Karlovac highway. Built in the last century over 30 years. Although we know what roads mean, with all the efforts in the former state, but in these times the Croatian state has not changed anything. Only exits in Jastrebarska remained, and the other areas are only watchers of traffic passing them. That's why I wanted to pray here that when budgeting for this year, the initial funds for the purchase of land and the construction of a highway connection project in Zdenčina for the municipality of Klinč Sela were provided. This poor municipality on the threshold of Zagreb, this way because of its position, could achieve a transformation within a short time. In addition, this exit on the highway brings the municipality of Pisarovina, Popuplje, part of Kordun to the real closeness of Zagreb. Listening here to the difficulties of the government that I accept. I will not submit the amendment, but I will ask the relevant ministries and institutions of the government to find solutions in this year for this initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4104	I thank Mr. Representative Branimir Paseck. The word has Mrs. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4105	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. Discussing the state budget not only today, but we always like to point out that it is the most important document that can be found at the debate in the Croatian Parliament, precisely because the best in the budget sees the programme priorities and activities that the government will take next year. It is always nice to listen to the prime minister's presentation when presenting the government and its programme, when the objectives are declared and what is wanted to be done. However, these usually nice words and plans at the time of the adoption of the state budget should be justified, but should also be subject to concrete figures, because precisely the figures, but also only figures from the budget, rather than the beautiful words, point to the priorities and work programme of the Government unequivocally. But is this draft budget in line with the declared declarations? I'm afraid that at least because parts of education and science are concerned that they're not. In fact, I don't think anyone smart in Croatia today is mind-blowing the fact that most of our population has poor education, and I think we all agree that the strategic task of all is to improve it and thus train people for complex processes of production of new values based on companies based on knowledge and the creation of a knowledge society. The position is officially declared by the Croatian government, but the government, unlike many others, has an obligation to make concrete decisions and is testing its own credibility on the budget. Accordingly, in view of Croatia's lagging behind in the financing of education and science, additional financial efforts were needed to start reaching the existing and new European Union countries. It is generally known that the rise in the education and science budget of at least 10% a year may but only maybe in 2010 can lead us to the degree of isolation that European countries practiced in 2002. One dyspression. Neighbouring Slovenia in the budget this year, so in 2004, it increased the science budget by 24% and for technology by as much as 67%. In this context, an increase in the budget of slightly less than 7% not only does it not guarantee the development and investment and achievement of Europe but it is exactly the opposite of deepening the gaps between us and them. This is more so if we know that more than half the mass of the increased funds are provided for the salaries of teachers in primary and secondary schools and even some new items have been introduced that have not existed in the portfolio so far, and they are certainly not development in the declared sense. This is, for example, the requalification of MORH employees of a million-and-a-half kuna or, for example, funds for education of children of Croatian citizens abroad that have been increased by 5 million kuna. To be completely understood and not to misread me against those items, I have absolutely nothing against their increase, but these funds cannot be interpreted in the best faith by declared development. So I think it should be clear to all of us that the nominal increase in resources does not necessarily mean that the development here is trying to convince us all day long. In addition to higher education and science, the nominal increase in the budget if the reader had more guidance and read the structure of the budget is not a guarantee that the necessary, necessary and urgent reform will indeed be done and done but it is absolutely certain that it will not be done without insurance and continuous increase of the reform funds. Only one detail which supports the above-mentioned thesis of the problematic structure of the budget. Today, the whole of Europe is moving to funding the programme by leaving discretionary rights to universities for internal redistributions of approved amounts. That so-called. "lam sum" or "block budget" or university budget should at least be present in this budget more if it is intended to be practiced since 1.7 this year. If that is not the case, it will mean giving up reforms in higher education and then Europe nothing because we accepted the Bologna Declaration concerning the harmonisation of Croatia with European higher education. Or a detail. Compared with last year's funding for the University of Split, the reductions despite the fact that the abolition of the University of Split increased the university by several thousand new students. And that sort of detail on certain items you have as much as you want. A few sentences about elementary and high school. Analyzing the rebalanced funds from last year and the planned funds for this year are the only conclusion that survives. Why? In fact, the difference in plus funds mainly refers to wages. The items that are essential for education, relating to the reform programmes, amount to about ten million kuna, and if we add 32 million kuna to the Institute of Education, this is almost negligible in total, amounting to 8 billion budgets for all education and science. I think it's clear to all of us that retaining the amount in primary and secondary education at last year's level is equal to stagnation, but I dare say even to collapse. Since we haven't even started reforming primary and secondary education. There's a lot of details, I'll mostly propose some amendments so on these details more about the amendment debate. The second topic I want to talk about is young people with education probably the topic that is most declared and which beaches are very much and so little concrete. Namely, the funds planned for active policy towards young people who are in fact the opening of a national programme of action for young people, and I find it extremely important to note unanimously adopted in the Croatian Parliament at the end of 2002, with a strong push and appeal for all, and today also by the resolute youth ministers, that it is an excellent programme that should be accompanied by adequate support from the budget. Therefore, these funds for young people not only follow the funding dynamics established by the national programme but are even reductions by almost 30%. And not just that. For example, 20% are the reduction of funds for entrepreneurial incubators, etc., etc. And here's another discrepancy between the declared attitudes and numbers that unquestionably reveal the truth. I therefore call on government representatives to quickly and without delay apply the machine they have in the government and to intervene with their own amendments or accept some of our amendments that we will submit as MPs and thus take advantage of the opportunity to correct the funds primarily for education, science and for young people if they want me to personally but also the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to really believe that they really want to start Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4106	I thank the MPs. Now he has the word Mr Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4107	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament! The defence budget of each country deserves special public attention and it is therefore no wonder that it is the case in the Republic of Croatia. It is no wonder that the titles of the "Croatian Army Modernization Stopped" type appear in Croatian media or "Croatia is moving away from NATO" etc. There are certain dilemmas that are related to the structure of the government's budget and certainly that these dilemmas deserve clarity and I would say not only politically but also professional and professional attitudes because such dilemmas are really not real, they are fictitious and deserve to be elaborated. Budgetary allocations for armed forces in each country are a very large item of the budget and therefore not only for security reasons are a particularly sensitive topic and I would say are the subject of constant discussions, conflict, compromises, etc. It is clear that this important item of the budget of each country, and therefore the Republic of Croatia must, under the given circumstances, be in line with certain elements, above all, with those security elements. the security environment, as well as the economic opportunities of the state, with that budget, as well as any other budgetary item, having to take into account the macroeconomic stability of the state and having a priority that corresponds to the current state in which it is located. Therefore, it is quite clear that today 2004, the defence budget had to give priority to some other important items of public consumption, social security, health care, there were a lot of words about education, education, science, infrastructure development, economy and other important projects, and that is exactly what is happening today with the defence budget. He respects these real circumstances, the real state in which the Republic of Croatia is located today in 2004. When we talk about the defence budget, it should also be pointed out that there are different approaches to the structure of this defence budget. Certainly in a situation where, in a particular country or in a particular area, there is an objective, security and threat, as was the case with the Republic of Croatia in 1991, it was logical, acceptable and justified that the defence budget of the Republic of Croatia had priority over all other items of public spending. And it was no surprise that even in some years 93, 94, 95, the defence budget was approaching the rate of almost unimaginable 10% of gross national income but, among other things, in addition to the courage of Croatian defenders to organise the defence system and this budget played a very important role in liberating the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to defence spending, what we need to be careful about and what we need to be particularly sensitive about, they are so-called. fictitious or virtual threats that are not unusual for soldiers, professionals, generals, which are not unusual, I would say for certain societies, are not unusual for militarized societies, are not unusual for countries without the real institutional civil name of the armed forces. I would say, this is what I point out here today at this opportunity because these reminisces to some fictitious, virtual threats still exist today in the system of planning and defining the requirements that come from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. There's certainly other times today. Indeed, demands cannot be accepted that the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces have a rocket for the anti-aircraft defence of the type of HOUK range of 10km whose prices exceed several hundred million dollars. Probably those who seek it and who, I would say, have been putting budget items for years, are not aware of either these financial amounts or those limits and some other priorities. The same thing is related to ambitions, unrealistic ambitions regarding the development of Croatian military aviation. Today, the Republic of Croatia in 2004 represents a democratic society in peace, in one, I would say to the security environment without risk and with my defence budget, among other things, the Republic of Croatia is building this security, regional framework. There is a dilemma as seen in the media, whether such a reduction in the defence budget could compromise the approximation of the Republic of Croatia to NATU. I will say this responsibly and clearly that there is no danger there because NATO does not need the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces with strong Croatian Air Force, it does not need a Croatian army that will have missiles, those I spoke of inappropriately to a small transition state, not an appropriate security environment. NATO expects Croatia to have light mobile forces that are ready quickly and quality to integrate into various peace operations. In any case, these peace operations will not be attended by Croatian armory, Croatian women and some other means of heavy weapons that we have in the Croatian Army arsenal. Certainly to a Croatian soldier, a Croatian officer, an officer in all these peace operations should be provided with everything he deserves. Good, the highest quality equipment according to the highest levels of standards that all other participants of such peace operations have. Modernisation of the Croatian Army will not be stopped because modernising outdated equipment, modernising the cold war doctrine is really not perspective and not acceptable. This budget, I would say among other things, has special courage and determination because simply instead of modernising materials and equipment, weapons requires something else, something that is much more difficult to realise and it is modernising, thinking and defining the structure of the Croatian Army in the future. And this budget, I would say, will be a very big warning, and I think today's Ministry of Defence led by the new defence minister is fully aware of this framework in which the continuity of the development of this Croatian army structure and the continuity of modernisation, as I said, is not perspective and is not acceptable. What do standards in the world look like when it comes to NATO's defence budgets? They range from 2% to 4% and, in any case, the Republic of Croatia respects these frameworks in view of other priorities and has a budget of around 1.8%. I will mention Slovenia 1.6%, Belgium 1.5%, etc. Not the absolute amount of the defence budget is the only measure of defence spending, I would say what is much more important that is the internal structure of the defence budget and that is what must be worrying us and in this sense quite clearly that in recent years such a strategy of restructuring of the Croatian Army has been conducted to reduce spending on that personal part of the system and to create opportunities for modernisation but I have again said modernization unfortunately in the wrong direction. When we talk about defence spending and the structure of the defence budget, it should also be taken into account that the modern ministries in defence budgets have a significant item for research and development. This should be given special attention because the science of education is not allowed to function as a single ministry. Any ministry that takes care of its long-term development must also respect that significant item, hence the defence ministry. And here, I'm closing up in the end. This is certainly a good calculation, this is a brave budget, this is a budget that brings the Republic of Croatia and NATO closer to reducing everyone else, i.e. giving priority to all other items in the state budget and allowing the illusions of the creation of the Croatian Army as a major armed force to be brought in in the coming years of the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4108	Thank you. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4109	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Ministers and colleagues and colleagues. Let me look back at the state budget from the primary health care angle that I belong to myself. Primary health care is basic protection. And health care is the first contact, it is also the guardian of the entry into the health system and well organized and efficient. 70-80% of the health needs of the population should be taken care of. And it is pre-conditional for rational consumption at other levels of healthcare such as secondary and tertiary. In recent years, it has been expressed the importance of this kind of health care but I could say that it was more declarative. Because in reality, it seemed different. If we look back on investment for the last four years, big projects have dominated. Of course I'm not against modern hospital facilities and operating rooms. But their number must be determined on the basis of population numbers, based on the improvement and mortality of the population in accordance with the current standards and standards of the European Union where we aim to be supported by economic viability studies but in line with the economic power of the country. Thus, in addition to these programmes, more attention and money should be given to preventive programs that will encourage and teach us how to protect and preserve health. Programmes in all of us will stimulate the feeling that we are responsible for our health and thus avoid hospital treatment and expensive operations. Programs that will help us to maintain mental stability and balance in order to spend less on treatment. Let's say the item in this budget is treatment according to special regulations in psychiatric hospitals 17 million 885 thousand. One of the measures is mental health centres in health homes with counselling centres and stronger community work. On this occasion, it would mention in the state budget items relating to preventive programmes and education. For example, prevention and education and other activities related to HIV are supported by 10 million and 126 thousand kuna, not to read this fine. But there are other programs, related to risk behaviour and conditions that represent leading public-health problems such as heart and blood vessels, and malignant diseases. There is education at the level of primary health care, prevention and early detection of breast cancer, prevention of malignancies, prevention of youth alcoholism, prevention of addiction with a million and 740 thousand kuna, professional training at the school of folk health which is also very important, 4 million and 376 thousand kuna. Then, the promotion of a healthy diet. But certainly more should be done and I am convinced that more money will be found in the next budget and in the next budgets for these and similar programmes. I would still point out as a positive shift in health information of 6 and a half million kuna and what is important for my county that it is good to move towards reconstruction, more intensively started to rebuild the Vukovar hospital, which will end up rebuilding the Vinkova hospital, and I believe that there will also be funds for building facilities within the health homes. Finally, I would say, given the debt transferred from the previous years of 6 and a half billion kuna, and 16.8 billion that come at a charge this year with 5 billion kuna interest, and the debt in health that the Minister of Health pointed out on several occasions was a success to create this budget, the budget that was developed, which also found socially stimulating housing with 177 million 274 thousand than 858 kuna, and the modernisation of Croatian railways with a billion and 420 million kuna, support in agriculture with a billion and 888 thousand kuna, rural development with 40 million kuna. But this budget and socially sensitive because it contained items such as professional rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities with 24 million kuna, an allowance with a pension of 100 kuna plus 6%, amounting to a billion and 520 million kuna. Then, birth benefits and many others. It is not an individual’s claim that this government does not keep its pre-election promises. In addition to being developed and socially sensitive, however, it is equally important that this budget is sustainable and that it is implemented. Because as much as we want and much, and more, if we want to preserve the country's economic stability, we can spend as much as we have and in accordance with our capabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4110	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4111	Your Honor, Mr. President. It is not the exact claim of a colleague, therefore, that the former authorities were just decoratively as she said they were dealing with primary health issues. It has just been the interruption of the specialization of family medicine in the 1990s by the minister... /the speaker has been excluded/... and since the lack of funds for primary health care in this budget, it will not be possible to achieve preventive programmes that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute signed last year in order to significantly reduce breast cancer, colon cancer, hypertension and diabetes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4112	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4113	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear ministers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. A victorious and confident appearance of the new government as well as a new rhetoric, surely they can't help us, but surely they won't be enough. The budget needs to be pictured in a way, which should summarise one government's economic policy. And already more times than our government mention priorities - further macroeconomic stability, GDP increase, tax reduction, reduction of state administration, then military reform, further health reform and on its own judicial reform. But, alas, there are also promises of authorities who eventually wanted to like each other, the authorities that continued their pre-election promises all this time that, there have accumulated further promises since November of last year. And as our media painted nicely, it seemed like the new government was hovering over water. But here, with this draft budget, let alone when it's just starting to run and when it starts shooting everywhere, and somewhere it's missing, the new power is already in "lead to the knee." Today we had the opportunity to hear from Madam Deputy Prime Minister that it was not even, on one occasion, an appropriate representative or representatives, that it was not all about financial means, that it was not all about money, so "not in cups all" to sing our Zadranin Bjepo Matešić. And that's right. Every authority needs to show that it has a soul. However, a government that cheaply comforts its citizens and does not solve their problems quickly gets into trouble. And... She gets in trouble from those same ones she's been so comforting. [[You don't understand.]] After all, we all have parents, children, families, and that is our comfort, and the government, I say, should primarily serve to solve problems. Claims of an unexpected big downfall to the new government were made as one handsome alibi in front of voters, so here she found that she could not yet spend, at least not in that, at least in the full of her promises all that she had promised, because the previous one had spent and some of the money that she had added to it, and they needed to spend. So HDZ's government is now really facing a huge objective problem, fulfilling the free pre-election promises. It could be said that our people say "it really gives her a hundred pains". But she's already guilty of it. On the one hand, high public expectations have been created regarding the increase in standards, with an increase in employment, and on the other hand, the necessity of the funds needed to implement reforms because they are the only ones that bring us closer to the European Union, and among them are very unpopular reforms. So not only reforms that need to be invested in a significant part of the funds, but which are still unpopular. So, 100 and one political precondition that seems to me, but also the new authority acknowledges that this is so that this political precondition is a pair of excellencies of Croatia's approximation to the European Union just reform of the judiciary. So, meeting the conditions of it, but equally returning refugees, exiles, rebuilding... More than 10,000 houses simply measure it, and time is so tight that really bluffing can't be an option for anyone, and especially for one responsible authority. [[You don't understand.]] So we should be aware of the fact that every delay on the road to membership in the European Union, because we have had the opportunity to hear it from one minister, that it does not matter when we enter the European Union, but mostly somehow we are getting closer, so when it does not matter, it does not matter as much as it does. However, this is not the case, because every delay on the road to membership in the European Union is objectively costing Croatia in terms of foreign investment raised, but also in terms of lost aid, and from those European funds to countries in transition, and in their own candidate countries. That is why this year is really determined when it comes to relations with the European Union, but also the overall development of the country, and we are going to test everything on the social sensitivity of course, but primarily on reforms. Experience teaches us that every executive authority in these areas is extremely difficult, extremely difficult to invest in the material basis of justice, but also each and every one of us is happy to wash our mouths out of the efficiency of the judiciary, so it is always the judicial authority, and the truth is that it is guilty of many things and of the situation in which it was found and of what we today call the state of justice. But this is exactly the moment where the executive, as well as the legislative authority, were called upon by law and by the Constitution, to help that judicial authority function in the way that it is necessary for our citizen, but also what makes us members, or aspirants, to join the European Union. That the education of judges, that the education of judicial staff and the fullness of judicial bodies is a necessary judicial staff, is simply a condition for condicio son qua non of any reform. In the past term, we have passed a whole series of laws that will normally relieve the judiciary, but in order for those laws to live, they must have a material background, they must have a material basis, otherwise they will remain a dead letter on paper. Otherwise, we'll be forced to pass the law because that other law is not enforced, it's not implemented. So what was now to expect is to invest considerable resources, funds that would allow for simple efficiency. Dispersion because all these laws have been passed, but I say there will really be a mere letter left on paper that will further and further embarrass the judicial authority as inefficient, and that is why we are here today responsible, to provide it with the necessary resources. But that is not so, it is best to see that the centre for education with judicial officials here, which we are so pleased to call now the judicial academy that remains those initial funds that were approved last year, at the same level. So the inability to educate new judicial officials who have been appointed in the meantime, which needs to be appointed. So those funds will be missing. Equally unimaginable is the reform without information, for which significantly smaller funds are granted. Then rebuild the fleet. Well, it's inadmissible for a judge to take his vehicle or with a lawyer's vehicle to be seen. Last year seven million kunas were provided for, and these were insufficient funds, but we secured them in the amount of 88. We haven't bought a vehicle at the Department of Justice in ten years, but we've provided just for the judicial authorities. There's less than half for that this year. We can speculate here today with numbers, 16% more. Even if that is the case, and it is not, it is insufficient if we speak and claim that reform of the judiciary is our priority. Well, we can't have 100 priorities. If this is indeed a priority then we should invest there because we will have all the significant benefits and because we will need to invest less quickly, and the benefits will be multiple. These famous 16% are easy to demystify. I've already said something in correcting the wrong allegations, so just under the Justice Department, two of the government's offices, the Office of Co-operation with the Hague Court, have come in early, and it seems good to me that the government has provided me with this slightly greater means of co-operation with the Hague Court, obviously she knows what it is now. However, these funds are being raised, so what was formerly outside the ministry, is now being added to the Ministry of Justice itself and we boast that we have increased the funds. These are only expenditures from two government offices, the Office of Co-operation with the Hague Court and the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg. And something else very important. More fashion seems to me to be very important, how much new power there is not only in this material sense but what its relationship is compared to the judicial authority, so I would now ask here if the government has acted as it was obliged to act by virtue of the Law on Courts, based on Article 99(2), that every time a budget is adopted, the previous Government should request the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Court. Did you do it? And if you didn't, then that's the answer to how you behave against the judicial authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4114	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4115	A distinguished colleague insists that the Croatian Democratic Union made unreal promises before the elections. I don't know, I even believe that generator is the fear that leads to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4116	The Minister of Finance, Mr. Shucker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4117	Well, it is not good for some of these issues to remain unexplained, so we also have the opinion of the General Court of the Supreme Court so that it would not have turned out if we hadn't obtained it, as of 27 February the opinion of the General Court of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. It's about opinion. However, I would like to say something if we are talking about the budget then we need to know that the revenue side is the default size and that no one can agree how it fits but can move within certain frameworks. But it's very interesting that 270 million last year were able to do all the jobs, and this year with 270 million kuna, nothing can be done anymore. It is evident that justice has not been invested in the past years as much as it has to be invested and that is certain. That's why the situation in the judiciary is the way it is. But it's very interesting that you wouldn't want to call here right now and I don't have a proposal, but someone who was headed by a judicial body to claim that these 6.5 billion inherited liabilities are fine. If it is definitely demystified here today and if it is evident that these obligations have arisen and could not have been so because they were not approved by the Croatian Parliament then it is evident that those 6.5 billion advances have not been spent, that the amount for the modernisation of the judiciary would probably be quite different at the position of the Ministry of Justice. But I repeat, this 6.5 billion isn't an alibi, it's our reality and we can't get away from it. But I'm saying it's very interesting that we're going easily through the violation of the regulations that this High House has brought.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4118	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Ingrid Marinović-Anticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister said he had the general session's opinion, but I just warned about it, and I need to have proof whether the government asked for an opinion or if the general session only initially delivered when it saw it, please it's very important, or if they had to try not to know which way and via the Internet to look for a budget, and you keep talking about 86 million debt, it's true. But we got 186 million in debt, so we didn't complain about it, and we kept increasing the budget for the judiciary. Don't call on the 86 now because we didn't call 186 million in legal debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4120	Dear Representative Miroslav Korenik, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4121	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, members of the government, it is certain that the budget shows the policy and priorities of each government, but I think it should be noted that this government, unlike the last one, has a strong political stability in the country, has a country that is not in political isolation, which is, in turn, the best way to become a candidate for membership in the European Union, that we are candidates and we hope to join NATO as soon as possible. We have a relatively developed financial market, a relatively good credit rating, development projects that are being implemented, development projects that are being prepared, and we also have a relatively liquid and solvent state, which, unfortunately, is not the case in 2000. And that's why I have to express my dissatisfaction with certain items in the budget and take the lead. You won't mind if I look first at these local problems, or Varazdin County. I simply can't believe that the last government signed agreements, contracts that this government doesn't respect, so I'm asking which reasons are that for the Varazdin hospital that there is an agreement only sets out 300,000 kunas to complete the projects of modernising the kitchen, but now it's a project to modernise the gynaecological department that needs to be handled in surgery and none of that. Already, colleagues and colleagues have said that in my constituency the same thing with the hospital in Čakovec, with the hospital in Zabok. I can't understand what the real reasons are for not moving more intensively to get Croatia to get a modern hospital after years and not to go to Zagreb for every review. Also, economic areas that have achieved good success in the area of the Varazdin County, there are in several I can say 15 cities and municipalities of the Varazdin County, they are a good basis for employment and it seems to me and in this sense I will give amendments to ensure that such money is provided in this budget. I also cannot understand that finally at the Ministry of Culture, despite the fact that the programmes were given in June of this year, did not allocate money for the restoration of the historic building of the Varazdin County, the 17th century buildings in which the money of the Varazdin County, in recent years, was invested intensively, and the Ministry of Culture, the city of Varazdin, I hope that from this rent for cultural monuments, I would pray if I could get in the final word of the proposing representatives to look at the reasons that there is no such money. It is also the airport in Varazdin for which it is necessary to continue giving and paying money for the purchase of land, perhaps because last 2003 there was this, at a time when the Varazdin Mayor was the director of the airport, and one of his employees from the party alienated 200 thousand kuna, it may be necessary to clear these relations to give money for the purchase of land but it seems to me that there is no point in simply not having such a significant project for the city of Varazdin and the Varazdin County continue to be implemented. I can't even tell that no school sports hall has entered into the government's programme or this budget for the entire Varazdin County. The Varazdin County, together with the city for example Ludbreg, has provided a portion of its original incomes with a portion of the decentralised assets, however, it is clear that without the help of the central state, it will not be possible to do so either, I do not understand why if Arboretum in Trieste is being renewed or aided by state money, why and what are the reasons that this cannot be done for Arboret... in Vinica near Varazdin. A special story is a high-school medical school in Varazdin. The past government has returned, i.e. given the use of the Varazdin County building of the former 6th Chamber Area to be used for restoration, i.e. to improve the ability of quality and the possibility of teaching at the medical school in Varazdin. Unfortunately, despite being asked by the Ministry of Education, no kuna is foreseen in the budget for this, and it should already provide money for the next school year with the funds of the Varazdin County that this medical school is finally working under the appropriate conditions, thus obtaining the conditions for sisters... who last year celebrated 350 years of arrival in Varazdin to ensure and repay the property of their former monastery. So these are just some of the reasons why I absolutely cannot support this budget at local level, and the funds for both regional development and the Fund for Development and Employment have been reduced, unfortunately being re-cut. Especially at the state level, what I will warn you about are the funds that are intended for the development of Croatian railways. We are likely to discuss the Law on Railways here next week, however, I point out that significant corridors pass through Croatia. These are 5C and 5B corridors connecting Central Europe with our ports in Rijeka and Plots. It is corridor 10 which connects Western Europe with the east and quite certain that the Croatian railways in the situation they had during the war, when they were devastated, when they were left without cars, without locomotives, a good part of the infrastructure is unfortunately in poor condition simply unimaginable to slow down the development of Croatian railways in any way. Let us not forget that by investing in Croatian railways especially in the infrastructure but also in the cars necessary for the work of Croatian railways we give the possibility to Croatian railways and employees in them to work. Let us not forget that the worse work of the Croatian Railways is precisely because they have nothing to do. In this way I am afraid that by slowing down the development of Croatian Railways and taking money in this budget can come in a relatively short time until the suspension or to lose our jobs in Zagreb, Varazdin, Bjelovar, Slavonski brod, Vinkovci, Čakovec, let us not forget here, colleague Pavlic I thank him that the first low floor wagon for truck transport is working precisely in Čakovec. It is precisely the problem that all European countries are seeking a part of their transport flows of particularly heavy trucks to target railways. We have nothing to do with it now. In this way we will not only run out of new revenues for the Croatian railways but we will remain afraid and without jobs and can only ask a rhetorical question, whether it prepares someone to sell Croatian railways cheaply to someone, to be servants to someone instead of working equally on the Croatian market and to expand to Bosnia and Herzegovina and neighbouring countries. Already, counterpart Anticevic said about what problems are in the judiciary, and I'm going to set up a problem and I just think the opposite, I have the opposite of some who spoke about the Ministry of Defence. 500 million kuna less in the budget for the Ministry of Defence I am afraid that it will be enough only for wages, not only for the current employees but for those who are in the reform in any way and that there will be insufficient money to modernise the weapons and to modernise the entire Croatian army. We are talking about the need to join NATO, and it is certainly commendable, but it is the desire of all of us to meet NATO standards means to have a more modern, more quality and professional army. It seems to me that given the period during which the budget worked, a colleague of the Czech Republic who unfortunately did not have here said that the budget should be used, it seems to me that the masks are finally falling here and that those guarantee cards simply don't play that the budget is more, since it's been brought carnival because there's not too much fulfillment of the promise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4122	Go ahead, Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4123	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. So I think we should read the World Bank's report, the March 2002 mission, when the former government's term of office was very large because it's probably a neutral opinion that will demystify some of the things about the Croatian Railways. And that record in its 27th point says: “Highly planned high investment is very difficult for about 10 billion over the next 5 years. In order to implement a 2.2 billion kuna capital cost programme in 2002, the Croatian railway is planned to be in charge of 1.7 billion kuna. Such high investments will also cause a rapid increase in debt payments, not only for Croatian railways but also for the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The share of Croatian railways in the payment of the total debt will increase from €26 million in 2001 to € 149 million in 2002 and will range from € 250 million to €400 million annually in the period 2003 to 2006. Debt payout indicators in 2002 will deteriorate to negative 0.6% according to the planned 1.3. Government debt subsidies will increase by 254 million kuna, from 254 million kuna to 334 million kuna in 2002 and beyond 460 to 660 million kuna annually from 2003 to 2006. This will lead to the financial situation of HZ in a cash crisis that cannot be managed. In 2002, Croatian railways predict a cash loss of 1.1 billion kuna if the investment programme will not be supported by additional funds for public transport services or higher government subsidies to maintain infrastructure and investment. The mission asked for the investment plan to be laid down by priorities and extended by eliminating the estimated losses of 1.1 billion kuna, and that the debt pay-back indicator should be settled at least 1." So this is the opinion of the World Bank mission in March 2002. It's very interesting someone's neutral opinion, but an opinion that this government didn't respect. And now again about what was done in 2003, how much was planned in 2004? So for Croatian railways in 2003, there was enough billions of 240 million, but very interestingly, so much was done in 2003, but very interesting that the increase from a billion to 240 million to a billion and 574 million and 582,000 kuna in 2004 would not be enough, and that is simply fascinating. 300 and a few more million dollars won't be enough. 300 million less money in the previous year was enough. I mean, it's a really weird math. I think that when we talk about HZ, given the large number of employees, I don't think we should be taking the grades and talking on a flat-rate basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4124	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4125	Just what Mr. Minister has shown that the Croatian Government does not really know what to do with Croatian railways at this time, because do not forget that the business of Croatian railways...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4126	Please correct your colleague's quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4127	... I'm on my way now, Mr. President. It precisely took less money in last year because investment in the Croatian railways was a halved loss compared to the previous year. Therefore, Mr. Minister, you cannot say that by investing in infrastructure, by investing in modernisation we will not have better effects on the work of Croatian Railways unless, as I think you do not want to sell Croatian Railways to others to be operators on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4128	Minister Shuker quoted the 2002 World Bank mission report. You're reporting for correction of an incorrect quote. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm embarrassed to report for the second time, but without arguments to charge that someone wants to sell something, I think it's at least inconclusive and I repeat: Mr. Korenika be aware that from these words there are so many thousands of HH employees whose fate cannot be in this political story as you have offered this House here. So on what basis did you conclude that someone wanted to sell Croatian railways from this government? Based on what argument? On the grounds that 300 million more is invested this year than was invested last year? Or is it because part of the work that was done last year will be followed by good habits paid in 2004?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4130	Honorable representative Damir Spaincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4131	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister and the other members of the government present here, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm the new representative in this House, and I'm sure I'll be talking about the area I come from, and these are the areas of war that died. First of all, this applies to Pakrac and Lipik, and I will look back safely, as is the subject of the State Budget for this year. Let me point out, I guess there have already been countless speeches about war-torn areas that Pakrac and Lipik, Pakrac with EUR 325 million and Lipik with EUR 305 million of direct damage must have been a major problem in the development of these, these areas and the normal development of the biggest problem and one and the other, and thus also the zone of special state care, therefore the destruction of the economy. So the problem of the economy is not bad economic policy, but destruction. We are from a zone of special state concern and, according to the announcements of our current government, we will move into a zone of special state interest that we in these areas particularly welcome and that, if the government continues this policy that started in these areas, we will be able to support the work of this government. But there are other things I'd like to say here. So here as the new representative of the Croatian Democratic Community, and there are plenty of young and therefore new deputies we have also heard about these debts that have been inherited. I don't want to engage in this debate precisely for these reasons because we haven't been in a previous meeting or I don't want to have a debate in this area, but it can only be an example that there may have been no such obligations that have been transferred to this year safely so that there may be more resources for areas of special state concern. But I believe that this situation will change and improve significantly, and that it will be a crucial year in 2005. That's why we, in areas of special state concern, are as patient as we have so far and we believe that after these major procedures, and above all this concerns the construction of the highway, we can say the completion of the renovation of housing, we can expect a final emphasis on the restoration of the economy and the resolution of a major problem for the development of the economy, which is demining. We know that the previous government, but also this government had funds coming from the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Council of Europe, and we in these areas had good support from international organisations. First of all, it concerns the European Commission and the USA. And I have to stress one thing, and that is why this aid was preceded by a good political situation in these areas, which means that we mayors, here I am the third term, or I am the third term, we have also implemented government policy, regardless of who was in Zagreb, so we have also protected the state interests. We carried out state interests in this area so that we could participate in these donations. At a Congress in Vienna in Reconstruction, on Infrastructure Investments and in, for Central and South-Eastern Europe, which was attended by two other colleagues from this Assembly, it is clear that cities and municipalities and regions of Croatia will be able to run for these international banking institutions. Normally, with certain guarantees, but even in the agreement of the Croatian government, which means that foreign policy is also a new foreign policy that has been clearly determined towards Croatia, and gives support on the way into the European Union. Let me say something perhaps also about the Ministry of Finance, here Mr. Shucker the minister pointed out several times and we welcome it, in any case, these are the additional funds that have been clarified to us and certainly that this is a better variant than the previous one, because by contacting many colleagues last year, the mayors of the special state care zone, I heard that during June, August, most of these budgets were blocked, due to the rapid and short return of taxes, but now the situation is wherever and where better. We know that the state is taking over our obligation, and that we will collect income tax on income as we do. So, I stress here, we are all in areas of special state concern, and we are crossing this decision by the government, moving into a zone of special state interest, where we will enter into one competition, the competition, so there will be no mayors, the chieftainships put to sleep, but will propose quality programmes to the Croatian government through programmes that will be offered as in this budget this year. and let me perhaps just mention a few, that is, above all, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Regional Development Fund, the Employment Fund at the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Environmental Protection through grants for the production of... detailed urban plans and other documentation, Croatian Waters and now I don't list them all. Surely we cities from these zones will run, and I believe that the Croatian government will also have understanding, but on the basis of the projects and programmes that have just been proposed and the funds allocated. So we all need to be on the market for ideas, work plans, work results, but also election results. and therefore the proposal to this Government that the 2005 budget should be increased, so the funds in a certain amount, for this purpose for areas of special state care, but with one great emphasis on quality programmes that will go towards the creation of new jobs as the only still major problem of these zones, given that in the good part, housing, municipal infrastructure, and even in the good part and capital facilities, have been restored. Because we know that the reconstruction has started intensively since 1995. Special assistance went towards, would be in these areas according to good and quality consolidation and quality privatisation of destroyed businesses. Let me just have two examples here, this is about the wood industry Papuk Pakrac and the health centre Lipik, where the main burden is, therefore, those obligations that were created by the debt of pension and health funds. Ino investors came, however, they did not want to invest until the state resolved its claims. and that is why I propose, and that, if possible in this term of office in this year, next year, it also goes into solving this problem, because there are really interested and international investors in these areas. In particular, I would like to express my satisfaction with the rapid development of Slavonia through the watering project as a basic prerequisite for faster, safer and better quality development of agriculture. Just in Slavonia, there are a large number of units of local administration entering zones of special state interest. In the context of an even faster development and a good development plan for agriculture, an increase in demining resources should be foreseen for 2005, which can slow down the realization as I said the good programme of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is nevertheless the basic engine and development of Slavonia. If we succeed, then we will be proud to say that we have succeeded in turning the results of the work of green and blue Croatia into an increase in the standard of living of the Croatian population. Since I come from an area of special state concern for the time being, I hope for interest soon, especially I would like to express my satisfaction with the work and plans shown in the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity, for the reason that in our fields there are a large number of defenders and victims of the Homeland War, who live in these difficult conditions. The new work of the Ministry will certainly be felt by defenders and their families. and we would like to order the Deputy Prime Ministers and Minister of the Resort Ministry to just continue with the programmes and projects that have been implemented directly, which are directly embedded in the budget items and in Croatia, the state budget, and thus also in the resolution ministry. I'm particularly happy because there's been a certain outflow of professors, investment in science and education. And also, since we have a great deal of cooperation with international organisations to increase the funds for European integration that will certainly speed up Croatia's entry into the European Union. And in the end, in 2004, one year which is certainly one transition period we are sure of, we hear about it all the time. And I am sure that in 2005, within the four-year term of office of this government, there will be a year in which we will begin definitely solving our problems, in order for the government to complete the restoration of the war on the victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4132	Thank you very much, fellow Spanish fellow. Next up is a colleague of Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4133	Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will immediately go into what is most important to me or important to this budget, which is, that is, the funds allocated in this budget for prevention, i.e. to eliminate violence between children and children. Yesterday, a programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was adopted to prevent behavioural disturbances of children and young people, it can be said that the programme is a good first step in solving violence among children. However, none of this will be due to the lack of sufficient resources for the programme, or better said, no means for hiring professionals who should be engaged in such programmes. So far, it's only about employment in one small segment, and these are homes for children with behavioral disorders, so surely it's necessary to hire people in such homes who are concerned with the protection of children's mental health. However, it is only a small segment and will not be important, so things will change in the Republic of Croatia if they just stay on it, and unfortunately, in this budget it can prove so. In fact, there is one item in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports called the Prevention of School Violence, where no less than a billion and 400 million kuna are allocated to official travel, office material, representation and intellectual services. It's really interesting, and it would be interesting to hear how violence in schools will be prevented if money is spent on drinking coffee, traveling and office material? Therefore, there is no employment of mental health experts under this paragraph. Even more than that budget, one item that was in the state budget last year was deleted, and that item was named, teaming teams of professional associates for whom 10 million kunas for primary education and 7 million kuna for secondary education were allocated in the last budget. In 2000, when we took over, therefore, power in the Republic of Croatia, we found a rather difficult inherited state in terms of primary and secondary schools, where there were simply very few mental health experts, so we had a situation that we had 127 elementary schools in which we had no mental health experts and 58 secondary schools, either without any mental health experts. In the last year, therefore, 185 professional associates in primary and secondary schools were employed thanks to these funds, which is the first step but absolutely insufficient for this amount of violence and this amount of problems we have in primary and secondary schools which are in one part and thanks to everything that the Republic of Croatia has been through for the past 14 years but also for many other things, primarily because in 1996 we literally confused mental health professionals from the health system and also the education system. And now, after many years without the presence of experts in primary and secondary schools, there is a huge avalanche of violence among children. So hiring experts is the first step, but the second step is the education of these people because all these people who work there are looking for very good and quality education to work with children who are violent. And there's something else to say. So, in this country, it will be necessary if we are to systematically deal with the problem of violence among children and violence in the family at all, so it will be necessary to work on that that a small system is set up differently, and that is to educate all those who work with children, therefore from doctors, from child psychiatrists, from psychologists who basically end education to deal with these problems, however, one who has never seen a child who has never seen a child being abused will hardly be able to adequately work with these children. Therefore, everyone who is employed in the system needs good and quality education in order to work with children and, of course, requires huge budget resources that I do not see in this budget because these funds are spent on official travel, office material and representation. Also, this budget does not show whether the Ministry of Health will continue with the health reform within which a mental health centre is scheduled to be opened. In fact, it should be said that only twenty clinical psychologists operate in the health system today, which is absolutely insufficient, and I think that's something that needs to be handled in the health care system. There is also no item in the health care system that shows that it will neither continue to open a mental health centre nor that it will come to the employment of a type of clinical psychologist in the health care system so as to be able to deal with children and to end this hellish cycle of violence somewhere. So one is prevention. Prevention can affect a number of children, however, requires experts who are going to break up this hellish circle somewhere and can only be done by those who are educated for it. I would also like to say that I am glad that this budget has shown, however, that the HDZ Government will accept the SDP Club's law on the establishment of a state-run alimony fund or better said in Croatia for temporary child support because 20 million kuna is foreseen for such a fund. We think that there could be some additional funding because this fund should be paid even before the maintenance fee, not since the 10th month, can start paying it off from the 7th month because it is evident that there are some spending assets in this budget that are really unnecessary. In fact, the expenses for official travel are 18.5% compared to last year, intellectual services 51%, other services 42%, non-remarkable expenditures 145% and representation expenditure 13%, so there is room and can therefore still be found to redistribute into this fund for temporary child support in order to start operating as soon as possible and care for children who are unfortunately not cared for by irresponsible parents but also have to be said that this fund will also be charged, so that this fund will not need so much funding from the state budget if the state uses all its mechanisms very well to collect and return all funds to that fund. And in the end, I would like to say that here I am sorry that there is no Minister Kosor here who has repeatedly warned over the past few years about the increased funds for the Directorate for the Use of the Official Air Force. This year you also increased in your government compared to last year no less than 3 million and 700 thousand kuna. So, I wrote an amendment in which I redistributed these funds to homes for carefree children without doubting the principle and honesty and indeed sincere concern of Mrs. Kosor for children and I hope and believe that she will invest all her authority in the Government to accept this amendment and that this increased funds for the Directorate for the Official Air are being re-routed to those who certainly need it more than here's the Directorate for the official aircraft. And in the end, I would just like to say one last thing, which is that unfortunately this budget will not bring any major shifts for the Croatian family because what is fundamental is that the Croatian family lives well, what is the basis for being more children in Croatia than it is today and that is primarily a secure job, a salary that you will receive every month for a particular job. Unfortunately, this budget does not show great ambition for development, this budget shows 18.7 and 3% reduction in funding for the Fund for Development and Employment, which means that this budget does not show the government's policy that it really wants to deal with the resolution of a large number of unemployed and therefore only a secure job, the employment of both parents is the only thing that guarantees a good and quality life of the Croatian family.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4134	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, he always has the right to say State Secretary Nevio Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4135	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Representatives, gentlemen of the House of Representatives! Well, I'd like to explain something here because Mrs. Advocacy has stated that prevention of school violence especially but generally violence in society is reduced resources. I want to convince you that this is not so and I will remind you that just a few days ago, the government has adopted a programme of measures that represents a strategic interdisciplinary model and a way of suppressing this monster that we can say that has been very much strengthened lately. And that's why I want to tell you that first of all, it is not only possible to find these items at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports but it is also within the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the MUP. It contains 14 short-term measures and 40 long-term measures in this programme. Therefore, we have reacted very quickly and I want to warn you more, and today I will not repeat it again. They're not reduced funds because we have such resources, and in primary and secondary schools, we have 20 million reserved money for any programs that can come in and out of the year. We can spend one piece on that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4136	A colleague named Milanka Opačić came forward to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4137	Well, I have to correct Mr. Setic's incorrect allegations that they're not reduced funds. Col. Šetić, the funds were reduced because you completely deleted the two items, which therefore read "Equipping Teams of Professional Associates". You do not have an entry in primary and secondary education where you can finance new employment of mental health professionals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4138	State Secretary. Here, you can do it! It's not common, but you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4139	I'm sorry, distinguished MPs, because just by solving the same problem for which no earlier measures have produced enough results now I've explained to you how this situation can be improved. Anyway, I want to say in public that it's not an easy task. Nor do we think that at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports... that it is one interdisciplinaryly possible and I believe all of us together so that we can improve. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But, once again, I assure you, as far as the funds are concerned, they'll be enough just to find all the models.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4140	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. My colleague Katarina Fuchek, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4141	Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like to engage in perhaps one shorter way in this debate in order to support the draft budget and repeat perhaps a sentence that many have already said that each government budget is the most important document of the state, that is, the most important law passed by this House. And I would like to point out that this budget has been adopted, or proposed to the Parliament under special conditions, given the deadlines in which it is ready and since it is not yet the full budget of a government in which the entire policy could be viewed through the programme and the visions set out here as a lack. And I think that everything that is not now contained will certainly be proposed in one whole programme, with the whole proposal that this government will have the opportunity to propose, and then perhaps more concretely assess whether this government has a vision or does not have this vision. But I would also like to say that it is proposed under specific specific economic conditions with trends that are certainly negative indicators of what President Sanader was talking about, and what the finance minister was also talking about. It means a decline in economic activity, i.e. a particular drop in industry, productivity, trade decline. And this is particularly important that the growing trend of the decline in trade that has particularly affected the image, i.e. the growth of BGP, may have created some kind of wrong case that we now have to discuss. This is a proposal for a real budget and in this sense all praise to the Government for achieving a balanced budget between the development and social components, which is not easy or easy. And we certainly cannot look at this development component only in that cost-effectiveness as far as anyone has received and how much of it will have the opportunity to spend in a particular activity, or in a particular area, although it is indeed a great interest in all the structures of society because they are all interested in the budget, as their development activity depends on them, or their future. But we need to watch how these funds are being spent, how these funds are going to be spent. So it's not a development component that we're going to get but it's also how we're going to spend it. Which also means increasing the efficiency of increasing the state-state system. Which includes all state resources from all ministries, as well as those from life that will have a direct impact. I think it's one, one different view of the use of state resources and that in that sense we also have to take special care and give special attention to just how rational we are, how efficient we are, how effective we are, and how much we have and how much we can spend on the right things. It's that vision of whether we see what we need to see or wait for others to tell us. Certainly faster growth and development can be achieved with many economic elements but I will reduce them to only two of the most important, it is certainly a reduction in the share of public spending in BGP and by raising the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. It is in this competitiveness that the whole story of our success and our accession to the European Union lies. Whether or not we will achieve a level of competitiveness that can be included in these market and economic conditions which are certainly ruthless. Normally, the increase in exports and the reduction of debt will be one of the main characteristics of this government, the government's programme to work on this proposal to boost the competitiveness of Croatia's economy. I want to say a few important things here about what has caused great attention, which is debt, debt, or public debt of a state that certainly makes the borrowing of budgets, extra budget funds and local self-government. I think that public debt must be given special attention because it is also a problem of this government which it has received in particular, because it has received a great commitment in the transferred borrowings which are also part of that public debt. I support the statement by the Minister of Finance who said he would make the finances transparent, that it would allow for more rational spending of funds from the Ministry of Finance, or State funds, or budget money, or budget money or taxpayers' funds. That's certainly to say hello. In this respect, a certain professional public has already debated that, given the major problem of borrowing and certainly some possibilities to deal with the situation and good planning, it may also be possible to legislatively resolve and set certain criteria or criteria or conditions under which it can be committed and which would also regulate and monitor the debt and also the risks that this debt poses. I also want to say a few things here, or a few thoughts about guarantees that are indirectly also part of public debt. And they just marked the mandate of the previous government, because they were not a guarantee of investment, but they were guarantees of recovery interventions in the economy which is certainly not any project that can be said to carry a new vision, that this is a view of the future, that is a ceasefire. And we can see that in the costs that come now as activated guarantees. So we can see that I don't mention companies, but others have already mentioned them in "Viktor Lenc", we can also see in the Rijeka Bank, etc. If, here, I have to look back at Mr. Cacic's exposure, which he said they submitted, that is. as part of the former government's commitment to its back and loans and that this government will open the roads. It's no problem to make a road if you have money. The problem is and it is necessary to bring investments along that road and bring tourists along that road, then it is a cost-effective road. And this is exactly what this government is going to show for it. I just want to say in the end that the objectives of this budget are very ambitious and very realistic. Thus, achieve macroeconomic stability, i.e. fiscal consolidation through a reduction in the budget deficit, and a continuation of investment projects that will certainly be aimed at fostering growth and economic development. Because real growth of 2.3% or nominal which is certainly greater than 5 or 5.6% certainly will allow for the restructure of that economy and also allow for the fulfillment of all social benefits that are certainly important for the defenders, both for the birth and for our pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4142	Thank you very much, colleague Fuchek. One suggestion information. There's still only 60 reported for a 10-minute hearing, so here's a suggestion maybe. Next up is colleague Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4143	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister and gentlemen members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I am fully aware that a comprehensive and comprehensive debate on the state budget requires a little longer than 10 minutes. Don't be afraid, I won't be 10 minutes. It also requires public finances experts, and would require politicians and for a little longer to be able to fully assess the state budget. So in short lines, I'll almost telegraphically give my grades to some divisions or some grades I've heard today about qualifications for what the budget is. I would really like to say and to argue that this budget is optimal, balanced by today's economic and social circumstances of the Republic of Croatia, that it is balanced between the needs of the state, between the need for economic development, the need for social policy and social justice of Croatian society. Of course, unfortunately, I can't say that. Why? Well, it's simply because, even the prime minister in his opening statement puts employment in fourth place. The fourth priority puts employment in place. It is indisputable that we all agree that the most difficult burden of Croatian society is huge unemployment. If we add that without a systematic and long-term development policy and not projecting new jobs without investment, without development it is not possible to resolve social policy, it is not possible to resolve employment; then there is certainly a reason why this budget is not set up in accordance with the Budget Law. He's just incomplete. He's incomplete. Even more in the Law on Budget Implementation, the government itself says it has not applied the provisions of the Budget Law. Imagine what provisions. It does not give or implement the legal provision of Article 19. The Budget Act, which states that the Representative's Authority's budget for the year and projections are to be calculated for the next two years, and the implementation of the budget for the previous financial year and the evaluation of the current year's budget must be given at the same time and fully. This leads me to believe that the Government has no vision to make it look like a development and social budget for one, two, and three years as long as it has the obligation to present us along with this budget. for 2004, 2005 and with the implementation of the 2003 budget. It is almost impossible to discuss what trends are in the insurance and spending of budget money. Are they developmental? Are they social? Or is it just security for the state's needs? In addition, different assessments of the government and government ministers are made when it comes to the country's budget and macroeconomic opportunities when preparing this budget. The government, in line with this draft budget, is talking about good trends in the Croatian economy. And then the budget talks about the bad trends and the bad consequences of last year. There's really a discrepancy in attitudes and arguments. If I had to answer someone specifically, I wouldn't find an explanation of the answers to questions -- why is the relatively largest index of growth in the finance ministry 162.3. I could say that God first created his own beard, but of course that's not the right answer. There's got to be something that explains that index. The judiciary, the resources for judicial reform are insufficient. This is difficult enough to maintain the existing situation, which means that a relatively large item of criminal law reform of 420 thousand kuna could only be spent on intellectual law-making services. And just looking for the position of the Internet judiciary, we found that the General Session of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, which is made up of all the judges of that highest court in the Republic of Croatia, estimated that there were more significant investments in the development of the judicial authority, so the draft budget does not guarantee that a number of lagging cases will be resolved, i.e. to speed up court proceedings. In such a situation, the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia must be aware of their responsibilities for the situation in the judicial authority, as well as the possible consequences that may arise in the process of stabilisation and accession to the European Union. Do we need a better argument for the evaluations we've heard here about the draft budget for development and reform? You don't have to. Within the government's considerable fall is insurance for the Association Office from cca 30 million to 17 million kuna. It is indeed a question of Croatian government orientation is it for civil society, is it for human rights? Therefore, substantial funds have been cut down for bodies promoting civic values and the structure of society. The debate in this House may be quite marked by drug abuse in Croatian society. For the past term, I think that every year we have discussed this problem at least three times, and, behold, the miracles of education and the campaign against drug abuse, the government proposes that we ensure 745 thousand kuna. Is that grumbling in front of a problem? I can't help thinking there's something missing. Science and higher education. Despite the express provisions of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, which respects the autonomy of the university, it provides for funding through... In the budget, items are detailed at the positions of all Croatian universities, and thus practically derrogation of the university's autonomy regulation. [[You don't understand.]] Of course it is not allowed from a legal point of view, but it is qualified for Croatia something different from Europe. Investments for higher education are not intended to be invested for editing or building a music academy. Does this mean that this government, unlike the former, does not have as one of its priorities to solve the problem of the music academy. Does the capital of the Republic of Croatia deserve to address the problem of the music academy in terms of traditions and the importance of the institution. When it comes to culture, as much as 2 million and 200 thousand kunas are projected to build a newly built ministry building. Either the past government has made a bad mistake or there is unnecessary funding to edit a decorated building here. In addition, another 2 and a half million kuna is forecasted for furniture and other equipment in the ministry. $400,000 for the fleet and an additional million and a half kuna for the ministry's information. I think there are a lot of examples like this in the budget and that it would be correct not to work for us, but certainly mandatory for tax citizens, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia of the taxpayers to at least answer more precisely whether these are due to needs or to someone else's costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4144	Thank you very much, dear colleague Leko. Representative Frano Matušić reported on the correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4145	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A fellow representative Leko obviously does not know the Law on Budgeting itself, because saying here that the presentation of the university programme has entered the autonomy of the university itself completely incorrectly because this programme, which is listed in these extensive programmes that the government has contributed to, is quite clear that this is exactly the proposal of the university itself, and I am sure that within these articles relating to the University of Zagreb, will find funds for the music academy that we are very much in favour of, but I think that this is how we claim that someone has infiltrated the autonomy of the university is really inappropriate and there is no standoff in the truth. That's completely incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4146	I'm not sure you've corrected the wrong quote. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, pal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4147	I am convinced and I think that my colleague has missed the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure and the correction of the allegations, because in the introduction, I said that I would speak my mind, my opinion on the budget, and we thank you for the lesson. Please, nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4148	Thank you very much. Re-injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4149	In the case of infringements of the Rules of Procedure, it is first necessary to specify an article of the Rules of Procedure concerning this matter, not to go further into the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4150	Thank you very much. The rule applies to both MPs. If we continue this way, I've calculated that somewhere around five a.m., we could be near the end and have the final word of the proposer, but we're deciding for ourselves. On behalf of the promoter Jadran Antolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4151	Thank you, Madam Vice President. With regard to the statement of Mr. MPs on the item in the budget of the Ministry of Culture relating to the reconstruction of the ministry building, I would just like to say that the ministry has moved into a building that has not been completely completed, and now the work that has not been completed at the time of the immigration must be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4152	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. A fellow representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4153	Dear Madam Vice President. First of all, these debts, breakthroughs, transfer obligations, unsettled obligations have been spoken in public for a very long time. Immediately after the show, the government said that these transferred commitments are, these debts exist, that the funds were transferred, and then there was that meeting in the government, the former prime minister, the new prime minister of finance, the new finance minister, the prime minister of the government, and in the conversation that lasted several hours, all the papers were reviewed, and all the documents and Mr. Schuker and Mr. Sanader smiled in front of the press and said there were no breakthroughs, no debts, no debts, and the whole public certainly looked forward to it and of course believed it. Now that the budget is being passed into the Assembly again these phantom breakthroughs, again these transferred obligations, and all of this to me, Mr. Shucker seems a little bit like an alibi, like some excuse because the budget looks like what it looks like, but the government doesn't need an alibi for God's sake. Which will be an alibi for the government because it proposes the budget it proposes. The budget is a government ID. It's an X-ray. It's a message about priorities, about what the government is planning, what it intends to do, and what it doesn't intend to do and what it doesn't intend to do. And the government has every right to stop, for example. some development projects, infrastructure projects because they don't think they're necessary. Well, that's legitimate government law. What's the alibi for? Why apologize for that? Well, the government has a right to tell the citizens, you see, you thought you were driving on a sloped train. You won't. You won't be driving, there's no modernising railways. It's your right. Tonight, as long as he hears, one shot will be shown. One recording of Sanader's duel will be shown - Racan at the time of the election campaign where then Prime Minister Racan says this government means to invest large funds in the modernisation of the railways, and Sanader then says how little it is, we will double that. It'll be shown tonight. I'm inviting all of you and the viewers who are watching this to look at that video. I think so much about pre-election promises and credibility. But so the government won't be these railroads it's clear, there's no modernization, but it's the government's right to deploy money as it pleases. She can say we'll take the taxpayers' money and now instead of the railways, let's say millions will leave again, for example. in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's an interesting item you see. At the position of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Croatia's commitment under international agreements with the Federation of BiH, 45 million kuna. That's just fine. It is concern for exiles and incentives for education, culture, science and health in the Federation of BiH. And that's just fine. It's not small money, 45 million kuna isn't small, but my God needs to be helped where he can be helped and how much he can be helped. However, at the Ministry of Health another 30 million kuna for health incentives in the Federation of BIH is already there for health care 45... and this and then from the position of the Ministry of Health another 30 million kuna. How much more of it is in the budget I have no idea, but it would be good if the citizens knew that, the taxpayers, because that's their money, that's money collected from them. I fully understand, a number of MPs, 3 or 4 have been elected in this Assembly in Bosnia and Herzegovina to vote these votes I understand, the order to thank me is quite clear, but it would be good for taxpayers to know how much they thank but while we are already at health care there is here on page 180 of Mr. Schuker, please open that page 180. These 30 million kunas are normally from the position of the Ministry of Health that is more than for all the county hospitals in Croatia, otherwise it seems to me that patients from Split and Konaval will have to go to Mostar to be treated because the other ones will not remain but look there is one worse thing. We were talking here yesterday seems to me about the transfer of power, about rematch..., but what is located in the construction, reconstruction and equipment of the Clinical Hospital Center Zagreb where he is scheduled 27 thousand kuna, 27 thousand kuna hospital for 1600 beds. It is the most cynical form of rematchism and I am surprised that you agree to this, this may be offered to you by the Minister of Health as your proposal but that you agreed to award the largest hospital in Croatia 27 thousand kuna so that they will work. It's rematchism that takes place over the back of patients. I can understand that Minister Hebrang wants to take care of the hospital's leadership, he wants to replace them, I can understand it, but he's doing it through patients, that the hospital doesn't get the money, that he's gonna predict only 27 thousand kunas in a year, so there's 1600 beds, there's 1600 patients, this is a dangerous and serious game. But already on the second page, Mercury Medical Hospital 11 million and 500 thousand kuna, for those who don't know Minister Hebrang was otherwise employed at Mercury Hospital, it's his home hospital, when his term of office is up, he'll probably return to that hospital. 11 million and 500 thousand kuna to Mercury Hospital, which has 300 beds, and 27 thousand to KBC, which has 1600 beds. This is a little bit of a responsibility to the patients. This is one of the horrors, this is a question for the Committee of Conflict of Interests, which I have no illusions that they will investigate, because this is obviously a favor to the Minister's hospital. Neither one, nor one in Croatia, received such high funds, but a very hospital from which Minister Hebrang comes. And the one he's got a dot on, the KBC...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4154	Excuse me, colleague, I'm gonna have to ask you to talk about the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4155	I'm talking about 11 million and 500 thousand kuna to Mercury Hospital, Madam Vice President, so I guess I can say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4156	I'm sorry to hear that. There's no need to yell, I hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4157	So don't interrupt me in the debate. You're obliged to make sure I present my exposure, not interrupt me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4158	It's about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4159	The agenda point is the budget says 11 million and 500 thousand kuna for the hospital from which the health minister comes. Therefore, this is the thing that this Committee of Conflict of Interest should discuss, but above all, the public, and above all, in the interests of the public, in the interest of the patients who pay taxes from their salaries to experience the fact that for the largest hospital in Croatia, 27 thousand kunas were foreseen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4160	Thank you very much. We have several corrections to the incorrect allegations, one replica and the right of Minister Shuker to address, on behalf of the promoter, the usual large number of applicants reported after this debate. Representative Frano Matušić first called, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4161	Madam Vice President, it is really hard to correct the allegations of especially those who are colored with hate speech but allow me to correct the incorrect allegations presented by my colleague Stazic when he said they were here in the Prime Minister's Parliament. Sanader and his associates said there were no debts, there was no breach. That's not true. They simply said that they would not say prematurely what these debts were but that at a meeting they would jointly determine what they were dealing with and what kind of debts and breakthroughs they were dealing with. And now we have heard from both Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Minister of Finance, that it is the 6.5 billion kunas that are required to be paid in this year and are not made in accordance with the positive laws or without the approval of this House, without the approval of the Croatian Parliament. So it's about 6.5 billion debts, breakthroughs or how you all cited them, and you said there weren't, so completely incorrectly you said that, the Croatian public must know that it's about 6.5 billion kunas of debt that we can't spend anymore because you spent them last year we have to pay them off this year it's quite clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4162	Thank you very much, colleague Matusic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4163	Madam Vice Presidents of the Institute correcting the incorrect allegations serves to correct what the MP said and not to correct what he didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4164	I'd like an article from my colleague, I assume you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4165	129.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4166	We'll check 129.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4167	214.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4168	Please be exact, 214.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4169	Or you'll take away my time all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4170	I'm sorry that...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4171	You're gonna run this session by letting me out or not, tell me because I can sit down if you won't let me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4172	As you wish, my colleague, you have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4173	Correction of an incorrect quote serves to correct what the MP said rather than correct what he did not say. I didn't even say that Prime Minister Sanader said that in the Assembly, but that they said that to the press after the meeting, and that's what everyone who saw TV and what's wrong with that, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4174	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of counterpart Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4175	The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4176	The next amendment was reported by MP Florian Boras. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4177	I could and should correct very many false allegations from Mr. Stazic and I will correct only one, Mr. Stazic said in his speech that the reduced spending on the railway is going to go to Hercegovina. First of all, we heard a government official and we can also read the money for the railroad is not cut, and I'm wondering reduced by what. So, they're not reduced, so if you want to go to some size Mr. Stazic I suppose I'm imagining as a starting point. And secondly, these money will not go to Hercegovina and that the Croatian government will according to this budget and ultimately we MPs here vote the budget where, in accordance with our constitutional rights and obligations, we will assist certain projects of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that's the right thing to do, and I expect other representatives from other parties to raise their hands for such a budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4178	Replica Marin Jurjevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4179	The replica actually refers to the thesis of fellow Stazic that the government has the right to stop projects already begin. He's right, but I don't think he's at the expense of the citizens, and these days there's been a big debate about the situation in Split, in the hospital in Split about the birthplace. In the budget there are no items for the Split maternity centre where many children are born, so from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina we see that 30 million kunas are provided for the Federation of BH, that 11 and a half million are for Mercury Hospital, but for Split there is no birthplace. There is also no kitchen completion in Split at Firula Hospital. Without that kitchen, that hospital can't work. There's already been a ban. And the issue is whether the citizens of Split will have to come to Zagreb or Mostar. There is neither for, in the Budget, any funds for Split's emergency medical care such as 10 million kunas that are designed to start health homes on Vis, Jelsa and Hvar quite insufficient, and what about the other islands. My colleague Hebrang has declared these... I'm gonna beg you to let me out of here talk if these heroes continue to interrupt this. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] So this is about a colleague of the Deputy Prime Minister Hebrang saying these days that he is a legalist and that he has nothing against the project at the Clinical Hospital of Split, but that they must be in the Budget before then and that it will all be realized. But we can't see those funds. As we can see, we are also reducing the number of money provided for the Split University, as we can see that we will not travel to Zagreb by train for 4 and a half hours at 6 months. Why is that? I don't think they have the right to interrupt the start of projects that were safe to be completed if it wasn't for the government who thought it didn't matter. And it is important for the citizens and for us in Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4180	Your time is up. Please, you can see it in the light. ... On the replica, no replica, no answer. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Further correcting an incorrect quote. Next up is Ivan Bagaric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4181	Dear Madam Vice President, I would like to correct the inaccuracible quote of my fellow Stazic, who said that the Croats will go to the hospital in Mostar. It is completely incorrect because there is such a huge level, such a big difference in the level of health care in Mostar, unfortunately in Croatia and in Croatia that no one will go down to be treated from Croatia, and if there are no such investments then all Croats and similar, all Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina will come to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4182	Thank you very much. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4183	Madam Vice-President, I am correcting Mr. Stazic's incorrect quote that for health care, 30 million kuna stands out for health incentives in BiH, and I quote that is more than for all hospitals in the Republic of Croatia. As a quick calculation, I came up with the next data. For hospitals in the Republic of Croatia, 70.3 million kuna is allocated, and another 43 million kuna in health infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4184	Thank you very much. We've got a friend, Bucan, in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Stazic, article, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4185	It's the same 214 again. Don't fix what I didn't say again. I told you about everything, more than any county hospital. County hospitals are shared by some kind of categorization. Take a phonogram and take a look and don't fix what I didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4186	My colleague, I must remind you that article 214 to which you are calling is a little different. He says: “When a representative is told a warning.” I suggest you not call on Article 209. Here's a little suggestion. It'll be easier for you to hear from each other. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Deal. It's a deal.]] On behalf of the Proposer, Minister Shucker, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4187	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I think on behalf of the Croatian Government's promoter, and also on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, given that I have been apostropheded several times I need to explain some things as well. First of all, no offense to a respected representative, I think the budget should first of all be read, not skip those numbers and positions that don't fit me. Take the ones that fit me, make it a very dangerous structure because health care is certainly one of the topics in the Republic of Croatia that is not for political games. More than that, only 27 thousand kunas are invested in KBC Rebro. Dear Mr. Representative at KBC Rebro is currently the largest investment in the health of the Republic of Croatia of EUR 73 million for which the Ministry of Finance has agreed that KBC Rebro therefore the investment goes directly through KBC Rebro. I think it's malicious to say that in, for such a great investment only 27 thousand kunas are separated. But also for Mercury Hospital, it doesn't matter because Deputy Prime Minister and Health Minister Dr. Hebrang is working at the hospital, but you should know and wonder why this hospital hasn't been invested in the past four years. But very interesting right before your debate, I had a conversation with your party colleague and former culture minister Dr. Vujic who asked me what about cultural resources? And you just answered him about the funds, and Mr. Vujic boasted that it was his program. Well, then I find it a little illogical, this, reaction within the same club. Alibi transferred the debt. I think we talked a lot about him here today, but I'll do it again because obviously some things need to happen again. This government was left with six and a half billion outstanding commitments to be settled in 2003. I'm not talking about the obligations that will come on charge in 2005, 2006 and 2007. Among other things, one of these charges is probably one of these investments in KBC Rebro. God forbid that investment is going to be financed by itself. But I'm saying I wouldn't want to repeat here about a billion sixth of Croatia's highway, a billion sixth of the renovations, five hundred thirty million of unpaid drugs to wholesales in Croatia with 31.12. A document that has even been verified by some international institutions and no one can say that it no longer existed on 31.12. No matter what political option it belonged to. So that's true. And for the sake of that truth as people who are legalists of certain things we have to admit and no one is looking for an alibi for those 6 billion 300, be, 6 billion and 500. Be assured that I would have been the happiest minister of finance if I hadn't had to talk about these six and a half billion kunas of unpaid liabilities, but that six and a half billion kunas were paid, actually put into some other programs and a continuation of some of the good programs of the former government. I'd be the happiest if that were the case. But there are six and a half billion outstanding liabilities left. It's true and you can't deny it. I'm just as glad as a member of the government and a member of the ruling coalition that we found out tonight that we have a new editor of HTV. So tonight on HTV, there's gonna be something on the program that no one in the government knows alive. That couldn't have happened in the last four years. [[Applause.]] It couldn't have been possible for an opposition representative to say that on television tonight it would be shown. That never happened. I'm glad we found out, too. HH, look, this year's HH budget is projected to allocate a billion 574 million. Last year was a billion 240 million. What kind of math is a billion and 570 less than a billion and 240? I read the World Bank's opinion half an hour ago. and there is talk of modernising the reconstruction of Croatian railways in 2002. So the government could have started this project in 2002. But you can't say that this government didn't secure 300 million more than the last government in the last year. I won't say, it would have been unfair, if the government hadn't gone and secured as much as she could, probably couldn't have. But this year 300 million more than last year was secured. And then you can't say it's a smaller asset. Let's not play math that's what we like when we like it. A billion 570 is more than a billion and 240. Noting that it was safe and passed by the government that they could invest more in the modernisation of the railways. and probably one part of the jobs that were done at the end of last year would have been paid out of the budget last year, I wouldn't have transferred them to the budget this year, because this year don't forget that they have two loans, billions and 240 million and one short-term loan of 100 million. It's just for the truth. Because both HZ and Croatian health care employs a lot of people. And many human fates depend on those two institutions. And also HZs and health workers depend heavily on the assistance from the Croatian State budget. So, playing with numbers that directly affect the fates of tens of thousands of employees, I don't think it's correct at least.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4188	Thank you very much to Minister Shuker on behalf of the promoter. Ministers, we have two corrections to the incorrect assumption. The first one's a colleague of Stazic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4189	Three corrections, so flying. It is incorrect that the minister argues that these 27 thousand kunas for KBC are not the only funds foreseen by the budget, since there is allegedly credit. Credit exists, but not for this purpose, but for the upgrade of the hospital. Therefore, the government has provided a guarantee for the loan, but KBC will have to live out of these 27 thousand for a whole year and will not be able to live. And credit funds are used to build a hospital. I didn't say it would be on HTV, because I have no idea which TV, I said on one television. But obviously you know better than that. And the third railroad. Minister Calmeta was the day before yesterday... Don't shut me out. [[speaks off, can't be heard]] Be patient to hear what I'm saying. He said on TV, we're postponing the project. We're postponing the project. I saw him on the screen when he said that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4190	Thank you very much. Minister Shuker again, on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4191	It's for the Croatian public. In KBC Rebro, 73m euros plus interest is invested in this new project. 73 million euros plus interest. Who's going to repay that loan, we'll see in the future. It's a deferral loan, I think, for three years. And it's not good for the Croatian public, it's not good for the employees of Rebra to say that 27 thousand are secured in the budget. Mr. Representative, KBC Rebro would never have been able to raise a loan if it had not been for the agreement of the Ministry of Finance, and my predecessor, the respected representative of the Church, knows that such billions and 600 are given guarantees and opportunities in various projects, that individual ministries are in charge of Stazic, the Ministry of Finance and Croatia has not mentioned its report at all. Although a large part of these days will be given to the Ministry of Science 600 million, KBC Rebro 73m euros, this is 600m kuna to come in part and charge the budget. But these are long-term investments and it wouldn't be fair or correct if we had shown that it was a commitment in 2003. No one mentioned these billions and 600 million kunas today, not Prime Minister Sanader, not me, not anyone here. Why? Because they come on a continuous basis in 2005, 2006, 2007. etc., but these are the obligations that have arisen in the future. and probably the current ministers, if they did, would probably have done a lot of these projects. But speaking like this, HZ, it's not true that counterpart Calmeta said the project was being suspended. That's not true. That's not true. Your colleague Kalmeta has today declared to you that the project is continuing, and I repeat this government has provided 300 million more than the last government in spite of 6.5 billion inherited non-payments for HCs, and that's true. And now is that 540 billion enough, I would be the happiest if the Croatian government could modernise Croatian railways in half a year, if it had such opportunities. Who wouldn't be happy? Who wouldn't be happy if we could declare to the River an ecological road, so all freight traffic takes place on trains like the Austrians do? Which one of these MPs here, no matter what political option they belong to wouldn't be happy, wouldn't be satisfied if they could do it? Which we have our own opportunities, fiscal, both citizens and Croatian economy. But I'm saying, it's not good to get the data out, which directly affects the fates of tens of thousands of employees, who depend heavily on the money of the Croatian state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4192	Thank you very much. Are there any more reported for correcting an incorrect quote? colleague Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4193	I would like to correct the incorrect allegations made by Minister Shuker, who stated that Mercury's clinical hospital has not been invested or invested in a lip in the previous years. That allegation is completely incorrect. Because in previous periods, a significant number of kunas has been invested in Mercury Clinical Hospital, millions of kunas, and I don't have accurate information at the moment. But I do know that a significant part of it went to radiological equipment in favour of the department he worked on and is still working on and intends to work on Minister Hebrang, as has recently concluded a contract for the purchase of additional equipment for which the tender was opened by former Minister Vlahusic. Minister Hebrang's tender so far has suspended, except for the procurement of radiological equipment for his department's clinical hospital, Mercury. Otherwise, I'm happy that we are, and you're investing so much in that hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4194	A colleague of Antunović, except for the weather warning, in the first part you corrected the incorrect quote, in the second you abused the table and discussed it. Correction of an incorrect quote, colleague Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4195	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Correction of the incorrect quote of a respected colleague, Stazic. Clinical hospital center.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4196	My friend, I'm sorry, you can't fix it, just the last speaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4197	I called before Mrs. Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4198	I'm sorry. I beg you fellow, please, no. Thank you very much. Next in the debate is a colleague of Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4199	Dear Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministers and gentlemen of the Government. We had the opportunity to discuss the budget extensively in the working bodies, I would choose to add just a few more notes in this opportunity. The budget conflicts with all possible conflicts, in the budget all those who must survive with the budget must find a place. But in the budget, we also need to know clearly what the first or second priority is. We must know that in economic policy, and the budget is also a sublime expression of economic policy. If I should say, I at this stage of Croatia's development, at the moment Croatia has developed with this level of problem solved and consolidation and economic growth that has begun, are two priorities. One is to continue economic growth and the other is to continue the financial consolidation and resolution of all imbalances on the domestic or debalancing of local and foreign imbalances. I accept the conservative approach of the Ministry of Finance in income projections and that's good practice and it's actually an American fiscal model. We've done it years ago and it's always good to do. So 3.2% can be objectively realistic at this point as an income assessment base. However, 3.2% cannot be the growth rate with which the government, not only the Ministry of Finance and the budget, can be reconciled and accepted. In fact, anticyclical measures are needed, additional activities are needed, new projects are needed that would simply change the trend of slowing down economic activity because without it, economic activity will indeed be weak. The government is there to propose additional solutions, additional measures, to speed up economic development. With 3.2% in Croatia, we are unable to solve anything regrettable. When I suggested 3.2 to 5% because they were really difficult opportunities, then my fellow economists asked me for 7% and in this parliament I was asked to have a 7% growth rate. It is not realistic, but at 3.2%, we cannot solve neither the unemployment problem nor the productivity problem because based on labour productivity is competitiveness and with 3.2% of Croatia at this level of development cannot catch up and no one can live better in Croatia if there is no dynamics and economic growth beyond that. Therefore, I am actually in favour of the activities that should follow in the design and development of economic policy and programme which will lead to higher economic growth and which will then show that the government is successful in this respect. This implies, above all, that both the budget and the economic policy are highlighted on entrepreneurship, the conditions for entrepreneurship, payment arrangements, more efficient administration than it has been, improving security in terms of both justice and finance and everything else. Of course, there is a particular importance in all of this for both the budget and economic growth. I don't think there was enough talk here today, and I'd like to add that I'd be happy to see that with more resources and more support for exports. Export is one of those points where this government must concentrate all efforts. It is that we have managed since 2000 to increase export support from 576 million in the budget to about 2.5 billion last year and it should now continue to be stepped up but not just enough money from the export budget, over the need for a number of measures that the government should develop, declare, implement, do a nearly quantum leap in export policy to make this happen. I would also add that for development it is very important that it is not only tourism, agriculture, transport that is extremely important enough to dynamic growth and that the budget is also effective in this regard. In Croatia, there is a direct need for industrial policy. It is about providing meaningful support for industrial policy measures that are known, which relate to both new and smaller businesses and significantly higher investment than the budget is foreseen in small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, etc. It is also important for this development to make moves in privatisation. A more successful privatisation would contribute to both industrialisation and economic growth. Let me give you an example. The Karlovak milk industry, unfortunately, was an example where it was tested, where the worst privatisation patterns that have been over-indebted over the past few years have yet managed to extract from it with state aid and can now be very important for the whole region of Bania and Kordun, only it needs to be privatised and it is pure to privatise. There are five, six customers, but nothing is done. It's been months, I don't see when or how something will start happening more quickly in privatisation not only for billions and 300 revenues but for the growth of entrepreneurship, exports and so forth. I'd like to add this. Simply if the budget is not sufficiently developed in this sense, then it will not be possible to express what we call the knowledge economy "knowledge paste economy" but it is not just information or some space technology. It is simply a modern technique and technology applied also in the field, and applied in the textile industry and in the wood industry and elsewhere where we have great chances in a series of these dams. Last year, great efforts were made to prepare industrial policy across individual branches and dams, and now it would be good if both the budget and the funds the ministries have supported to revitalise the industry in these branches. This would also mean requiring support for the positioning of our exporters in the wider region for the creation and support of leaders in the region, which we tried as much as we could with the budget and which would be good and still be good. I'd only add two more. First of all, it would be good through the budget and in Croatia otherwise simply formulate a development plan for Croatia. The European countries have a development plan. He's the base for using European funds. Part of it, part of this development plan is also a planned regional policy in which we in Croatia have also not had success so far and where much more should be done, and even greater support through the budget. And let me just say one more thing that no one mentioned today, and that's environmental protection. The state of environmental protection in Croatia is alarming. There are simply eco pirates who are harassing and whose state is not up to it because it is powerless and inefficient, nor is it prosecuted or prosecuted by anyone. We in this budget have some new elements of environmental protection. For example, this is the first time the Environmental Protection Fund has appeared. But what am I trying to say? How do we function as a state? The central state is responsible for the control of hazardous waste. For the course and monitoring of all flows and for the control of hazardous waste, the central state is responsible but when dangerous waste is found in a municipality such as the municipality of Vojnic 115 barrels of toxic waste then it is its poison and its hazardous matter and this municipality has to go bankrupt in order to take care of it. And if she doesn't take care of it then the state will punish her with $700,000 fines for not taking care of other people's waste. I suggest that from these intended environmental protection funds simply waste is found in one of the weaker municipalities and came from another field to take care of the state's expense and then let the state chase the culprit and charge him for it and punish him and put him in jail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4200	I thank the honourable representative. The word is on behalf of the proposer, Minister Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4201	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I've got to touch on the grade of the esteemed growth advocate 3.2%. I don't know what time I have to say today that this growth is projected in a certain economic environment. And let me just show you how many diagrams are possible. Look, this is traffic in the store for a little bit. Look at the fourth quarter of 2004 and see that over the past four years, no cycle has been that close. What is even more drastic is perhaps an even worse growth rate of industrial production, a monthly inter-annual index. Look at the last quarter of last year and look at the previous years. And what I'd like to say today was a special conversation, and that's road construction and what happened to road construction last year. Look at the 6th and 7th months, which is the physical volume of construction works. Look at those billions and 600, and you'll see that they weren't in the 11th and 12th months. I am saying this for the simple reason that it is an economic environment that is currently in Croatia. The last quarter was the growth of gross domestic product 3.6%. And we can be unknowing how conservative or not conservative, have this approach and that kind of approach, but if we want to be responsible people, then we can't go into a growth projection of either 6% or 7%. It's easy to say, but it's hard to go. But I would also like to say that the past, that these 3.2% are projected because in the past four years the largest part has gone into an external debt of 23.6 billion and in consumption, that is unfortunately true. And we look at these charts, then we can't get away from it. And make sure that our projections, I'd be far happier if they were different. And I haven't been able to answer today because I'm running out of time around fiscal projections. Fiscal projections for 2004 were to be made last year at the 5th month. And I think it would be funny if someone in the third month of the current year were doing a fiscal projection for that year. But what is certain is that this government will make fiscal projections for 2005, 2006 and 2007. And one more thing I'd like to say when we're talking about exports. I don't think there are any MPs or a man who wants to do well to this country who won't say that export should be encouraged and that exports are practically the only way to solve our many accumulated problems. But I would like to say that last year the biggest deficit in the history of the Croatian state was recorded. Imports were 14 billion and exports were 6 billion. So, never in the history of the Croatian state has such a large deficit been recorded. Now there's one question, if the real economic trend was such that exports were subsidized, that it, in some way, encouraged, then as we came into the situation that in 4 years our imports increased from 7.7 billion to 14.2 billion and our exports increased from 4.5 billion to 6 billion, so that we could adjust these 14 billion and these 6 billion partly because of the exchange rate differences. So the problems are the same as the ones that tortured the former government, and this government inherited them. However, I am pleased to agree on some things that some things should be encouraged, I hope that we will encourage some things more successfully and that certain macroeconomic indicators at the end of this government's term will be slightly different that the line will not be coming but uphill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4202	I thank Minister Shuker. The correcting of the incorrect allegations was reported by the esteemed representative Mato Crkvenac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4203	Mr. Minister, in the fifth month, guidelines for the budget are being made, not fiscal projections. Therefore, the former government should not have done fiscal projections in the 5th month of last year because, according to Articles 18 and 19. The budget bill works in the 5th month. And fiscal projections are done when budgeting is done. And second correction, I didn't say it wasn't Wednesday to slow down economic activity. But for God's sake, we're not going to make this slowdown any further than I guess something needs to be done in economic policy measures, proposals, projections, etc. to change these trends. That's what I'm talking about and I don't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4204	Thank you. On the one hand, we have a projection of GDP growth, and on the other hand we have a projection of the crashes of registered speakers. Here, 10 respected MPs have given up the debate for your information. A representative named Željko Nenadić called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4205	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Ministers and Associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, and I intend to give up in order to make this discussion as spotless as possible, however, I am definitely invited to address this House of High with a few words. It is clear to all of us that the budget is a kind of continuity and without that continuity as it is and in life all continuity cannot even be talked about the budget. This budget proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is the same continuation of something and it is actually the art of possible... This art was given by a government that had left power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is why it is also important to talk about how delegated obligations have arisen. It turns out there's no such thing right now. If the former and current prime ministers had met, they had made a nice deal, concluded that these obligations were gone and the matter was over. However, when we looked at the papers a little bit, it turned out that there was a lot of it. Well, now it's either something hidden or something's been arranged after the conversation. I can talk about the segment in which I work, which is health care, and I would say, take advantage of Mr. Stazic's opportunity, which is rematchism. As director of Topusco, I had the opportunity to experience that the former health minister reduced Topusco's treatment limit compared to 2002 by 54%. So 120 people were supposed to end up on the street after that. However, these meetings were not removed from the budget and redistributed to another position but were distributed to those special hospitals headed by the ruling party at the time. And that's a fact, proven. Also, they cannot accept the fact that Honorable counterpart Stazic is discussing healthcare professionals and how KBC Rebra employees will survive with 27 thousand kuna. He needs to know that health care workers live on their work rather than on the budget. They live on what they make and do, which they invoice according to the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and what they charge from it and not from what is provided in their budget. And that's a fact. However, to go back to the budget, I would like to say something about, which is, today, a lot has been debated and this is the urgency of the process of making this budget, and it is conditioned by the decisions of the former government among other things. And it consists of the adoption of a temporary which in some segments is less than 30% of what health care professionals and educators and social workers need to look forward to a new budget to start operating normally because there are not enough funds in the provisional budget. We just read today in the paper that the military personnel who submitted the request to leave the military system are slower to pay because there is not enough money for it. But you know what it means when someone leaves the system, they don't get paid, and what's promised doesn't come? I would also pay particular attention to the social significance of this budget. I cannot accept the debate on the fact that this budget does not have a social component, and here is a document presented by the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, which was signed by the Committee president and which discussed the budget, which reads, quotes: "It is especially seen from the increase in the budget for the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity by 23% compared to the previous year. It also increased the budget allocations of the Ministry of Health and Social Care by more than 716 million kuna compared to the previous year." And those are the facts. Also by forming a new portfolio at the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, which will have 27.2 million kuna for care of older people will certainly contribute to effective care for third-aged people. It is the newly established ministry that contains intergenerational solidarity that has become important with this budget and that component because we know what it means to care for older people. And finally. Since time has already moved on, I would say that I would like to express my special praise and thanks to the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia for proving and showing that, by their approach, by looking at reality in full and what we want to show both to the international public and to the local public that they have succeeded, with a reduction in the budget for all ministries, in maintaining both the battle and security in the country at an envious level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4206	Thank you. Honorable representative Danira Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In my debate, I will look back on a part of the budget that, unfortunately, has been rarely spoken of in the past few years, but fortunately today, twice. Of course, it is about the part concerning sports and sport development in the Republic of Croatia. Part of the 2004 State budget relating to sports and sport development increased by 1 million or 3.2% compared to the national budget for 2003. I would point out a few points in the proposal for a budget intended for sport primarily because of their innovation and that they open new development opportunities and directions in Croatian sport, which are an item for the renovation and construction of sports facilities that has not been in the budgets so far. The construction of sports facilities in the Republic of Croatia according to the standards of the European Union meets only 30% of the needs of the population, and I therefore welcome every step towards improving the state of development of sports facilities in the Republic of Croatia because the facilities are a basic prerequisite for child and youth sports. The second budget item which is particularly positive in this budget, which has not been shown in previous and previous budgets, is the adjustment of sports facilities to prevent the misbehaving of fans at sports courts. The misbehaving of fans at sports sites is a broader social problem and it is certain that the intended funds from this budget will not be resolved, but should be resolved by appropriate legal regulations, which is partly regulated by the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions and a whole series of programmes and activities at a number of levels. That item certainly represents a further step in preventing cheerleading riots at sports sites, and I think we should strongly support that. A significant number of EU member states, but also the world is faced with the growth of numerous indicators of social and economic roles of sport. They began to treat sports 10 years ago with strategic thinking, which is almost without exception driven by the highest state institutions of the country's government. And when the Government's Office for Croatian Development Strategies has not taken into account the role and importance of sports and perceptions and the Croatian and world public on Croatia as a prominent sports nation, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports recognised the need for strategic thinking and sports problems, and provided for a budget statement to produce sports development studies in the Republic of Croatia, which will be made by the most prominent Croatian experts. Over the past 12 years, Croatian athletes have achieved a number of successes on the international plan, but they have not been the result of systematic care and reflection of strategic and developmental directions. Under the pressure of the current problems, I believe that the adoption of new solutions should be based on a realistic assessment of the situation, a fundamental consideration of the causes and the setting of viable developmental directions and objectives with a view to achieving the optimal sports and economic effects of Croatian sport. First of all, I am referring to the adoption of a new Sport Act, which unfortunately has failed in the last three years in an effort to bring it, and thus has been the most successful in Croatian sport and slowed down its development. On us and the new government there is a burden of responsible treatment towards the Croatian future, children and young people in every area of social action, as well as sports. And in the end, I have to say that I would personally like the increase in funding from this year's budget for sport to be much bigger and that in this sense, I will push myself to the maximum when the government prepares the next budget, so my first real budget. But now knowing and respecting all the limiting circumstances, and above all, I'm thinking about the short period of time and the fact that six and a half billion kuna from the budget for this year have been spent in the past year. I agree with the Government's opinion on the basis of what it is said today alone that the 2004 Budget proposal meets both the development and social components in possible frameworks. And as for his part for the sport I looked back on, I would add that it is innovative, and that it opens new development opportunities and directions in Croatian sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4208	I thank you, Replica, a respected representative, Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4209	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Although I agree with most of the discussion of the respected colleague Bilic, even as a former athlete, I must say that one part of the quote is simply not accurate, for example that the new items are innovative. Namely, all items are the same and in exactly the same amounts, for example, promoting sports in schools 8 million kunas either now, by encouraging the Public Needs Programme of HHO sport 30 million kunas either, etc., etc. Time won't let me. Two items are new – the prizes to athletes for the top sports results of a million kunas because the past government has introduced such a reward and the second item is a new adjustment of school facilities to prevent misbehaving of fans also new because the past government has just passed regulations that would prevent it. All other items are exactly the same in exactly the same terms. And I would suggest to other fellow athletes that we may be willing to increase those items because I find it difficult to tell what it means to be advocating the maximum. Representatives in the Croatian Parliament advocate in a way to propose amendments, propose an increase in some items or a reduction, and we can declare this a declarative pawnship when we are in some other places as representatives, so here I suggest that we write together an amendment for both school sports and women's sport, so that we really advocate and not only declare it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4210	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Danira Bilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4211	I'd like to respond to the line of honor to my colleague. First of all, I think I have this printed part of the development of the 2003/2004 sport development budget. So it's not true that the items aren't new, but that they're overwritten, but they're new items, they weren't there. The reconstruction and construction of sports facilities did not exist and the adjustment of sports facilities to prevent the misbehaving of fans. And as for the study items, that item existed, that item was in the same amount, but that item was not implemented, and the law went into adoption, but that item was not implemented and we know that this item was previously passed by law. I mean, that's what I looked back on, and it's not true that they existed in last year's budget, and that we're going to stand up for it, I said, that we're going to stand up for the next budget, respecting all the circumstances that, making it difficult for us to adopt this budget, and I'm sure we're going to have, I'm sure we're going to get along. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4212	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4213	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I will try to talk in a few minutes about one area and the problem that I hold in my proposal for this year's budget is absolutely not highlighted enough. I don't think anyone has talked about it today, maybe I'll encourage someone behind me to speak yet, which is an area treated by a national policy to promote gender equality, commitment, projects and activities stemming from the national policy that was adopted in the period 2001 to 2005 and the obligations arising from the Law on Gender Equality, which was adopted and adopted in this Parliament by consensus in the middle of last year. Why am I going to talk about it? So because it's basically one of the first decisions of the new government if you didn't know, maybe you missed it, I really only learned about that decision a month after it was made, which is if you didn't know since 5 January this year we don't have a Committee on Gender Equality anymore. By the government's decision, that commission has been abolished. In fact, one of the mechanisms for promoting gender equality in the Republic of Croatia has been abolished. Recently, a regulation on the Gender Equality Office was adopted 10 days ago, and as far as I know before a day or two was appointed head of the Gender Equality Office. In doing so, I would like to stress that the tasks of each government, including these, are to improve mechanisms for promoting gender equality, not to reverse them. According to the Gender Equality Act, the Gender Equality Office is coordinating all activities in the field of gender equality policy, but the rest is hanging in the air, and I guess that's why these activities of the projects are not even in the draft budget, and that's who brings the proposal for activities and projects to be taken care of and coordinated by the Gender Equality Office. I think the worst of all could happen if this office will remain on a number of employees who will receive salaries, and in fact they do not have the budgets, projects for projects and activities to be implemented, and let me remind myself. According to national policy and according to the Law on Gender Equality during this year, several projects, activities, let's call them whatever we want. Let's just say I don't know if you know it, but under the Law on Gender Equality, there is a co-ordinator for gender equality in each ministry. It's usually according to the law, it says, one of the ministerial assistants. According to national policy, a project for the education of those coordinators was to be prepared so that it could be those who could re-design programmes with someone in cooperation in this country where it is somewhere in the budget that it should be written so that both state officials and deputies and officials would be educated for gender equality issues. If that were the case, perhaps in the debate on the next budget for 2005 we could already have educated officials who could talk about the gender aspect of the budget. Unfortunately, in Croatia today, we do not have such experts, and we do not have enough government officials to know the problem. In addition, one of the obligations that was to develop a national strategy to combat violence against women. It's a commitment that should be implemented this year. Furthermore, another very important activity, which is further work on setting up committees at local and regional (regional) level or gender equality committees. This job, the funds were also scheduled for last year, part of it was made, and in one good part it has not yet been completed. Therefore, I have prepared a small set of amendments that I have proposed to provide for items through the Office for Gender Equality, not some possible big increase, a total of around 300,000 kunas, which would provide for activities and projects and through one amendment, I propose that a specific programme for gender equality education be developed within the Central Government Office. There's one more part of me that I want, so I might actually ask a question, I'm sorry there's no finance minister here, there's no vice president. I have to say I may not be an expert on the budget, not perhaps but certainly not, but I tried to find out what it means in the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity one item that reads this way: "Protect the abused in the family" and says one million and 300 thousand kuna, says current donations in money. I wanted to ask if it was planned and at least one part of the funds for, say, secret shelters for victims of domestic violence. I remind you that if you didn't know or forgot, there are only two such shelters in Croatia. I repeat, it's about secret shelters. It is the "Autonomic Women's House" Zagreb and the "Step" shelter in Karlovac. Before we were witnesses, the prime minister and the Deputy Prime Minister received the leader of the Autonomous Women's House, they received a donation from the current reserve, it's something to try to get through for a month, but I am therefore asking the question since it was promised then and publicly that the issue, or the problem of work, would then be addressed by the autonomous women's house, and I appeal that the house "Step" will also be taken care of in Karlovac. So whether these funds, the protection of the abuses in the family also apply to those shelters, or if not in the budget somewhere, I unfortunately failed to see the existing funds provided for it. The issue of the Alimentary Fund, therefore, is something we do not have yet, which is to be commended for being foreseen in this budget, however, is foreseen at least from public advances as they were to make the alimony fund work on September 1st of this year. As far as I know here in Parliament, two proposals concerning fund formation, alimony fund, a maintenance fund or what we will call it, I don't know why we should wait until September 1st and the funds foreseen for 20 million kuna are absolutely insufficient for this because the assessment is at least if we believe these two proposals that are currently in the procedure in the Assembly are moving that such a fund is needed between 160 and 195 million kuna per year. So if we take the Fund for one third, 9, 10, 11, 12 months, I think 20 million kuna is absolutely insufficient. Here's a little bit I may have made to say that in the budget discussions, but I wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to warn of a very wide problem in the Republic of Croatia, something we need to talk about, we need to count on that we need to secure a certain part of the budget, I will say this not only because of the European Union, the guidelines and the instructions we receive from them, and which we are already seeking the most because of ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4214	Thank you. Correction of Mrs. Maria Byte's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4215	Thank you, Mr. President, I am correcting Mrs. Sobol's incorrect claim regarding the abolished Committee on Gender Equality and that the projects will not be realised or realised. It is true that the government abolished the commission but the government formed a Gender Equality Office which was a legal provision from last term, or in the 7th month of last year, and it is normal that the office will continue to work on projects, which is why it exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4216	Dear Representative Jelena Pavicicic-Vukicevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4217	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The state budget for 2004 also sets out the main objectives of this budget. The first goal is to retain the macroeconomic stability that we had and the opportunities to hear from Mr. Minister of Finance in the media, although very often made and statements that ignore this truly indisputable fact of achieving macroeconomic stability in the past period, I think it is very important that this finding will somehow follow us throughout the financial year. The second objective is to identify the need to create a budget as a social and development document. If this were the case, at least part of HDZ's pre-election increases would be found in the budget, such as an increase in maternity benefits and the provision of funds for free textbooks to primary school students, as a model of a successful project in the city of Zagreb, and the project was personally discussed by Minister Primorac. As far as development projects are concerned, the same development of transport infrastructure is not available, and today we have heard contradictory views on whether the modernisation of the Croatian railway is going further or not. However, I would point out at this point that the purchase of 70 low floor trams in the city of Zagreb from Croatian producers from the Croatian Concert of Gredelj, Končar and Đuro Đaković that such purchase should be followed by the state in terms of and example of Croatian Railways and would certainly ensure a kind of economic takeoff. This programme direction of the Government, I am afraid, guarantees stagnation in all areas, and not economic growth, and it is questionable how the budget will increase by 4.6% compared to the previous one as indicated in the proposal. The state budget for 2004 clearly shows that the government expects and offers little. In order to discuss the implementation of the 2004 budget, it is likely to say that everything was planned. I have to say, I don't think that's really an ambitious budget. It is also important to stress that the data due to the new government structure are not relevant in the part of the budget's reasoning which speaks of increasing the resources for the work and programmes of each ministry. It is a natural increase compared to an increase in the budget of 4.6% but also a merger of ministries. Dear colleagues and colleagues allow me to particularly remain on the part of the argument that inappropriately speaking about the division of the Ministry of Culture, which shows, quote: "The awareness of the importance of fostering cultural heritage as one of the leading backbones of the domestic tourist offer". For the distribution of culture, a total of 690 million kuna is foreseen, of which I carefully reviewed all items for programmes, i.e. by cultural activities, 159 million kuna was provided, and almost all the remaining amounts were intended to protect cultural monuments. a cold facility for building maintenance, small inventory and salaries to employees in cultural institutions. For comparison of the city of Zagreb for the programme of public needs in culture, he singled out in 2004. 131 million kuna. The state budget should follow, given that the units of local self-government are largely unable to follow the pace of need in culture such intensities of the city of Zagreb because simply decentralised funds for this purpose do not have enough. The ratio of the planned allocation programmes but with respect to the funds for the protection of monuments that are more generous for 2 million and 7 thousand kunas, according to the programme orientation of Croatian cultural policy, which is trying to evenly deploy budget money. Regardless of my personal opinion on such a cultural policy which certainly has its own justifications but also has its reasons against it, I believe that, with this draft budget for 2004, I am obliged to stress the following. The draft budget cannot be transparently seen how much funds are intended for institutional and how many non-institutional programmes. From this series, funds are intended for programme activities with funds to protect cultural monuments and, apart from 6 million kunas for the work of associations in culture and 3.5 million kunas for youth culture and alternative culture, actually funds for institutional programmes. From this, it is impossible to read the programme orientation of the cultural policy of the Republic of Croatia, and even less possible to answer the question of where Croatia's culture is going. Namely, it is not only as stated in the explanation of one of the leading backbones of the domestic tourist offer. Not preferring programmes over the preservation and promotion of cultural heritage monuments and heritage of natural monuments, the state budget should treat both components of Croatian culture as development projects. There is really no reason why preserving cultural heritage as an indivisible part of the Croatian economy and tourism should not be an incentive for new employment, professional training and tourism promotion of Croatian localities. Let me finally express my belief that in the future, it will be on cultural programmes that a civilization rule on accepting diversity and not rejecting all that we personally do not support and understand will apply. That is why inscriptions in part of the media that talk about hate encourage impatience towards alternative programmes, their performers and users who also finance and the whole civilized world is not appropriate. In fact, magazines in the field of culture and social issues, which are also partly financed from the state budget after such bile outbursts and hate speech, in my opinion, should lose such support. It is precisely the area of culture where the horizons of dialogue and tolerance should be extended, not the area of closing their eyes in front of new trends in art through funding of youth and alternative programmes, and alternative culture programmes are affirmed by new artists, new working styles, and, alternatively, I do not find it incomprehensible and unnecessary but different and advanced. If there's a mistake in awarding money, If the criteria for the allocation of budgetary money are not transparent enough and cannot ensure the quality of the programme then they should actually be changed in order not to question the reputation of all the users of the State budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4218	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4219	Mr. President, it is completely inappropriate and incorrect to put in the context of the Croatian Government's programme orientation with the investments of the city of Zagreb, the railways in the domestic company and how you said the state should follow that trend when you spoke about railways. And you obviously don't know that your government signed a contract with the German car manufacturer and not even directly with the manufacturer, but with the middleman. We can imagine what would happen now if our new government Croatia would cancel the contract and offer it to Djuru Djakovic, for example. We can imagine what, in order for those who signed that contract with the German mediator to react not to the manufacturer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4220	Thank you, Mr. President. In order to make it clear that the budget of the Ministry of Culture, as noted by the representative, provided for the same amount for the protection and preservation of cultural heritage as it was for the past year, however, respecting one fact that, just at the end of the year, it began to show the results of the provisions of the Law on the protection and preservation of cultural goods that introduced the monumental rent as one of the sources of income exclusively intended for the protection of cultural heritage and preservation. It is precisely the instrument that should strengthen funds to preserve urban and rural protected units of therefore immovable cultural goods, thus liberating a part of the funds that will be able to be used for the restoration and preservation of movable cultural heritage. The budget also envisioned the integration of cultural heritage conservation programmes, the preservation of natural heritage with tourism programmes, and therefore part of the funds to be encouraged are located in different positions. Under this cooperation, funds have been left for the Croatian historical road project as a mountainous tourist corridor aimed at presenting cultural heritage and natural heritage, it is linked to tourists passing through those corridors. As regards the programmes, the funds foreseen for the programmes and the funds provided for by the institutions. They are indeed transparently separated and even as programmes envisaged separately and presented by types of programmes, unlike the funds co-financed by the work of institutions in culture and in nature protection. And more regarding the criteria for the allocation of money from the budget. Namely, the last government passed the Law on Cultural Councils, which had been functioning for the past two years, and which showed on what principles the money from the Budget was shared on. Unfortunately, the criteria with which these Councils have taken place are not entirely transparent and it is certain that they will need to be complemented by this segment in order to make the allocations of funds sound rational and appropriate to the resources available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4221	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4222	I would like to correct the incorrect assumption that the work of cultural councils and the means of distribution was not transparent as the man who reported projects to the cultural council I must say that, and who has formed a cultural council in his city, I must say that so far is the most transparent way of giving money in the field of culture. That he can be even more transparent is certainly a fact, but I think this is a major shift compared to what we had two years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4223	State Secretary Jadran Antolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4224	I did not say that the work of the Council was not transparent but the criteria by which the funds were shared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4225	Dear Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4226	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm glad that, at this time of day, we can react to the debate, and it's precisely in the field of culture which is surprisingly well placed in these discussions because it has been mentioned frequently. It was mentioned more frequently than it was evaluated in, in a budget currently foreseen in the budget. All I'm going to say is, in a way, I'm going to try to be useful because I'm quite well addressed to this issue and to this government, and I'm hoping that wishes in, which I don't doubt we share together, which is the development of the cultural budget, given its function, are also the characteristics of this government. So I still need some comparative data, so I'm going to take it out now, and unfortunately before that I have to notice that I had to pull these comparative data out on my own because this is the first budget that we haven't had to say like that to all the columns that we could on, to make it easier to compare certain items from different years of age and yes, and to figure out the indices ourselves. Maybe that's why there are excuses but in many places it was possible to do so. Unfortunately, that's not what happened. But let's leave it. When we took the responsibility of the government in some way, not the government but the responsibility of the government then we took the responsibility to understand culture as an integral part of development, as an integral part of therefore as an agent of overall development, and I think the previous government has shown in a orientation that is very easy to show in quantitative indicators because they are indisputable. The average growth in the last four years was actually from 464 to about 650 million kuna and every year the cultural budget grew by about 10%. Unfortunately, this trend has not been retained right now and this year, and this is the first time that after 4 years of continued growth in the cultural budget he stagnates, something is going to go from, below what has already been achieved. In that sense, I must repeat something that has already been heard several times, but I want to present it systematically. In view of the merger of ministries, the cultural budget treated in this way, which is therefore said to have increased 7.5%, has not grown so much. Since 37 million out of 690 million belong to items that were not previously treated as cultural items, they concern the part that is related to the protection of natural heritage, then in some way to book certain new things that appeared in this budget, which is the Voice of Croatia with 12 million, Edith with a million, etc. The wages that were growing, so when we looked at it and we compared the columns that were now comparable to me, and I tried not to say maybe some wrong data, but I went to say, rather genrely not to say something wrong, I found that 7 million kuna is less in this budget compared to last year's budget. However, it is not only 7 million less than last year's budget, but it is about 5 million less than last year's budget implementation, which I can certainly document as well. But it would be interesting for those who have just spoken on behalf of the development of certain areas to see how these areas look concrete. For example, in 99, she had 27 million, in 2003 she had 34 million, now scheduled with 28 million. In 99, the publishing and library activity had grown to 59 million, now projected 53 million. In '99, she had 22 million, and in 2003 she had 35 million, and now she has 34 million. Youth culture from 0 to 7 million now to 3.5. International co-operation, which will also be very interesting to those who think some new assumptions for some significant stronger international co-operation have grown from 7 million to 11 million, and is now projected with 10 million. I could quote these columns for a long time, but I think this is a pattern that also shows quite a bit that this government has not followed a course that has been continuously present in the financing of culture, i.e.. that she was growing up in fact somewhere at 10% per year in the last four years, but now she's put something below zero. Not much, but still below zero. Since, if I have seen some other budgets well, a very important element is lost, and this is an element of the monitoring of culture and education and science. Regardless of the remarks that were heard, it seems to me that education and science have achieved a little more resources. However, culture has not realised the means. So she's not just stagnating, she's going back. I'd also help my colleagues from the current government with an opinion that I've been representing myself and I'm not giving up. The fact is that the cultural budget in some elements cannot satisfy each representative, given some, on specific concrete programmes in culture. For this reason, the institution of the cultural councils that we had, some previously formed under the Law, some of which we formed, discussed and competently decided about some 10 thousand individual programs. It is a very important institution, but it is very important that it knows this institution each one and with which budget it actually deploys and with which budget it can dispose, so that it can plan. We have had the opportunity to, given the continued inflow of funds from the Ministry of Finance, which has not been scheduled, not only do we achieve such figures as are here and with the rebalancing of new figures that are also in question, but we also plan certain things and that in some way we may do more than one kuna, but one kuna. These are the famous ones to say dubiosis, which are actually about the continuity of funding cultural programs from more or less, but more, than less independent cultural councils that plan programmes, and programmes in culture at least many, many places are programs that can't be planned for just one year, but for many years. So just as we have inherited certain programs, we have submitted some programs and I hope that there will be no dilemma about them being funded. What seems to me, unfortunately, is that this budget also does not take into account, therefore, not only the developmental function of the culture that would be in this way and... evaluated, but also some of the specific things that this Parliament should consider and which I will propose, that is that it does not provide for the realization of some of the major very significant capital national projects that we have planned, which I think we should realise. I'll start with those who are more famous, and I'll end up at one of the crucials. I'm not sure whether the budget, because it seems to me, seems personal to me that it does not, that it ensures continuity in building a museum of contemporary art. I am not sure that on these assumptions investment that has stagnated, i.e. it covers 73 million as last year, this same item can monitor the development of needs for several more museums. So, from Krapina Pravet, via Narona to the Rijeka Museum of Contemporary Art, and Zagreb... mentioned. And especially something that seems to be very missing to me is the action that has taken place in a serious phase, since many pre-works have been carried out, which is the construction of the Motherland monuments in the way that we are in the last meetings of the Committee on the Construction of the Monuments of the Homeland, where some representatives of the former Assembly were present, and some of them remain as representatives of this Parliament, in which we are in some way obliged, since this includes a major procedure in Zagreb, and it is precisely in Stjepan Radić Square, whose procedure Zagreb would have come out in a way on the Sava and won a new vision of the city in which we will not mention as a cultural good just what the Austro-Hungarians were building. These big projects, I don't think they have room here. And I'd like to ask the government's representative to be transferred to both the minister and the others to try. First, to settle items that went downhill compared to items that had an earlier budget. I wish we could at least reach the level of the earlier budget. and secondly, provide for capital cultural projects and provide funds for them. Since I can confirm this myself, indeed in the protection of cultural goods, cultural heritage has achieved great opportunities by the Law on Monumental Rent which can bring significant resources to ensure a high level of protection of cultural goods even outside the budget. Thank you very much. I hope that this contribution is in favour of all those who have at heart the development of this area and I hope that by the final draft budget will be taken into account, not mere rhetoric, but I mean facts and facts and financial statements that would balance this budget, and preferably go further than the previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4227	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative Antun Vujic. Before he takes the word Secretary of State, there's one correction to the quote. Here you go, Mrs. Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4228	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, I am correcting Mr Vujic's incorrect allegations about the items in culture. It was probably Mr. MP who heard when Mr. Minister Biskupić was on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and asked us to respect the items that were changed because it was a technical error in the budget and that the government was coming out with its amendment, that it was a technical error he gave us that information. He provided information that the museum-gallery activity is 19 million kuna, theatre-music stage activity 32 million kuna, literary publishing and library 49 million kuna, international cultural co-operation 14 million kuna, artistic creation, protection of 16 million kuna mobile monuments. That's why our data disagrees and the budget says that the culture ministry budget is 7.5% higher than 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4229	Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4230	It was on the Education Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4231	Now, you guys clean that up later. And when did you lift that board? Like this, he has now answered the word of Secretary of State Jadran Antolovic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4232	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, when talking about what is bigger and what is smaller than the growth of the budget for culture, then in this calculation given by the esteemed representative Vujic, it should be taken into account that the 2003 budget shows the ministry building with a substantial amount exceeding ten million kunas and that, for example, an article of independent artists, means of paying contributions to independent artists is significantly smaller or only 12 million compared to the current budget, which is projected by 30 million in view of the significant differences in the law that was significantly reduced at the time. Therefore, it should also be noted that the rebalance of the budget is significantly reduced in culture precisely in the items I mentioned and that, for this very reason, the plan last year for culture was reduced by 31.5 million. It is therefore almost impossible to compare this way unless the positions contained in both divisions are respected. As far as these activities are concerned, I must thank Mrs. Byte for drawing attention to the technical error that is in the budget and because of which the amendments to the Government are a museum-gallery activity not in the amount of 16 million but in 19.5, then theatre and musical context activity is not 28 million but 32, literary publishing and library is not 53, but 49 million, international cultural co-operation has increased to 14, so it is not 10 and protection... cultural monuments are by mistake 20 instead of 16. [[You don't understand.]] However, in the mentioned activities, which are said to have had more funds last year, it should be noted again that not only in this particular case but also in other activities, there were much more funds agreed than in the 2003 budget, and for this reason 68.5 million kuna was transferred to the budget that would have to be implemented during this year, therefore in the same way as it did with the budget in total. It is precisely in prominent activities, so in music-scene activity we have an outstanding amount of millions and 300 thousand kuna. As far as museum-gallery activity is concerned, we have an outstanding debt of 2 million 762 thousand kuna. As for support for publishing books, even an amount of 5 million 383 thousand kunas or support for national libraries with 3 million 289 thousand kunas. Or finally for the cinema of 13 million kunas. Overall, when we look at these 68 million kunas, it must be paid to the burden of the 2004 budget. Therefore, it should also be included when comparing as little as possible and as much as possible. Let me also say that the funds for the investments foreseen here with 73 million kuna at the same level as last year are planning exactly three capital investments of the Museum of Contemporary Art in Zagreb, the Museum of Hušnjak in Krapina and the Museum of Narona in Vido, as well as the completion of certain institutional procedures transferred from 2003. And allow me to make more remarks about the programs that are also listed as programs that allegedly increase the portfolio or the culture division I must say that these same programs were envisaged in 2003 as the Croatian Matica, then the Emigrant Matica, etc. which also grew in this budget compared to last year's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4233	Thank you. But if it was a technical mistake or something, then it was necessary to inform the MPs. First of all, the violation of the Rules of Procedure is Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4234	The Rules of Procedure of Article 174 have been injured because we are obviously not discussing today the proposal of the State budget of the Ministry of Culture established by the Government, but we are discussing something that someone has printed in some strange way, so I ask the President to ensure, before further discussion, that all legislators receive a proposal from the Ministry of Culture's budget as the Government has determined, because some of the allegations are corrected now because we have some text that clearly does not propose a budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4235	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4236	Since his colleague Mršić has already removed the first part of this problem, which is that there is a budget here on our benches and not some other one that consists of some wishes. We've had a variety of government desires, so they haven't always been heard from us, and we're still talking about this. But I'd like to correct another thing Mr. Antolovich thought he was talking about when he was talking about how in the rebalancing area he took down 30 million to hit these items that I was talking about. I was just talking about rebalanced items, so for example, museum-galery and art activity was realized in 16 million and not planned and now it's 16 million. The musical stage was realized with 32 million and now it's 28 million. So, I don't want to go into specialist debates but this is very clear and the papers are talking about what it's about. This is a reduction, a serious reduction in the culture budget. Or stagnation or reduction, you can't even talk about 10% of which we went from year to year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4237	Thank you. The violation of Mrs. Maria Byte's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4238	Mr. President, the Rules of Procedure of both colleagues in Article 209 have been injured. We're talking about the same budget. It is said that the article of the Ministry of Culture does not change. She writes that 7.5% is higher than in 2003, but Mr. Minister is on the board, the board members know it and Mr. Vujic has been, asked us to appreciate, that it is a technical error and that the government will come out with its amendment. And the item remains, the Ministry has its own item that does not change. It's about the division within the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4239	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4240	So I repeat that we are here today discussing a proposal for a state budget established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I don't know what the minister said on one of the boards. But I ask if there has been a technical error to ensure that all representatives of this House get to the correct text as soon as possible. And not like this, and no, I don't know what the minister on your board said or in the hallway. Is it, then,? Please. Therefore, please, I have asked the President to comply with Article 174. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian National Assembly shall provide all MPs with a proposal for a state budget which will not be changed or authentically interpreted by individual committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4241	Thank you very much. It's my opinion that if there were any technical indiscretions or that it should have been delivered. But, uh, now the question, Mr. Secretary of State, is it technically possible for you to deliver and explain that item you said was... has not been delivered to the MPs? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4242	On the committee, it was the Vice-President of the Committee on Culture that was brought out by the proposings and the Committee accepted this by the Ministry of Finance, therefore, that it would be technically corrected by the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4243	Before that, we said the word would be given to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4244	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I'd just like to help and ask the representatives for respect. And, therefore, the government will come out with its amendment to resolve these misunderstandings. I apologize and ask for your understanding. So, the government comes with its amendment. At the next debate, or voting, I think it'll all be clear. Please accept this explanation, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4245	I propose that we overcome this situation because the Government will come up with an amendment that will be sent to representatives in writing before we decide to absorb this problem in this way because indeed the representatives need to receive accurate information which the item presents in the state budget. And now for the correction of an incorrect...... I don't know which one. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There's a advantage, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but then I'm asking you to tell me what the article is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4246	Mr. Chairman... that it is 174. It is probably about being a parliamentaryist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it is in the essence of parliamentaryism that MPs are talking about the same paper. I wonder how my colleagues could have gotten to the point that... The growth of 7.5% of the buds in culture and at the same time they have these data from which they derived 7.5%. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4247	Mr. Vujic has no idea the importance of parliamentaryism in the Rules of Procedure. There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4248	It has, it has, it has to do with what we can't have, we can't have any intentions, Mr. President, this is it, this is Parliament and the highest House, and we should have papers here that we can debate them seriously and not their intentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4249	Here you go, Mr. Gristle. Correction of an incorrect quote you've received.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4250	That's right, that's right, yeah. More like accepting what the Deputy Prime Minister said. But I ask the Deputy Prime Minister to coordinate your views with the Minister and with Mrs Byte and with the Proposer's representative and to agree whether you will go with the amendment on what they are talking about or it is a technical mistake. If you are going with the amendment, then I ask that we discuss the proposed text in which we will appreciate in our future discussions that you and the amendment will respect this, which is what the minister allegedly spoke of on one of the committees. But don't convince us then that it's a technical mistake, but we'll accept that the government is... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] By the way, the government has announced, please, the government has announced the amendment and I accept Mrs. Kosor's explanation that it will come out with an amendment which will be the subject of...... So it won't be a technical mistake to correct Mrs. Byte. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It will either correct the budget with the amendment, so it will improve what is seen in the budget or it will be a technical error. Well, you can't, you have to, you have to agree to the club with your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4251	You haven't corrected, you haven't corrected Mrs. Kosor, you've asked for an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4252	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4253	And you'll get an explanation when the government submits amendments that we'll be able to make known. I think all that stuff is solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4254	Yes, but please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4255	Oh, please. The government will submit amendments and the parliament will be able to demonstrate, plead and so on. So I don't see why we're reopening this issue now. I think that's the thing, whether it's going to be called a technical amendment or it's going to be a correction, it's going to be contained in the amendment to the government, and that's what we're going to end it. Thank you very much. The word is represented by Nikola Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4256	Mr. Vice President, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4257	Just one moment. Mr. Lobster. Which is the violation of the Rules of Procedure and which is the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4258	This Regulation shall enter I'm... So you have every, you got, please, we all got the Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session of this. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, Article 174 is hurt so much that we ask that the future does not correct what does not exist in the budget. We are still discussing the draft budget that the government has submitted and the amendments when it delivers then we will discuss the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4259	So, the word is, I apologize, Mr. Representative, for not saying what you haven't already started to say, which you haven't started to say even though you've been given the word, well, now I apologize to you, please, please, your 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4260	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Vice President, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. My congratulations to the Government that it has managed to prepare the draft budget in this short time and which has succeeded with the great credit obligations that are due this year to achieve the development component of this budget. Which also shows that this government does not give up its pre-election promises. I'm aware of the constraints on budgeting that are practically being made for the next nine months, so I wouldn't want any of the projects that are planned in the area I'm coming from. It's the carlovack County.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4261	Let the representative present his presentation, so I'd like to ask you to quiet down a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4262	Thank you. I'm sure they'll be realized in the next period. I support the continuation of highway construction, the integration of Croatia's north and south, which will lead to the Government of the Croatian Democratic Community project, because it is a project that has been launched for our authorities that brings an end and that will allow our country to develop further. I hope that in this budget and in the plan of the Croatian roads, and I see here the Plan of revenue and expenditure will find the means to create a study for the position of the Novigrad node on the highway Zagreb - Rijeka, because at this moment it is the only node on that highway on the part that is built and not put into office. It was a promise by the Croatian Road Administration so far that it would start preparing the documentation. That was a year ago. It's even called a contest. But he was annulled by the argument that all bidders were overpriced, which is a little surprising, since we see that not much was being watched over certain positions. But I believe that now that it is practically a double amount for Studies to develop that it will succeed. I am pleased that within the framework of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, a series of programmes are envisaged to encourage the development of entrepreneurship, and we need to be fair and say that the previous Government is, i.e. The Ministry of crafts launched several projects that gave positive effects in the development of entrepreneurship. But the fact that we haven't all had some kind of equal treatment, so it was happening here specifically in the community from which I come that we've been waiting for more than a year for the Office of State Property Management to solve the problem of land owned by the state, and it's planned for an entrepreneurial zone. We only recently received an answer during this government. I welcome the announcement by Mr. Shucker's finance minister about taking order into state finances. 'Cause look, I've been in my community for quite a while now, and it's unthinkable for me to discuss before the election the competition with the headship's decision, sign the contract, and in charge of someone who'll come after me so I can't sit this one down. I would support the Government's proposal on this budget to undertake a tax return obligation for local self-government units located in the area of special state care, thus avoiding possible blockades of those units' accounts. Because their budget revenues are often very low. It should be said that it is very effective to propose an increase in the grant to local self-government units in the area, so as we have heard a lot about it today, so it is little wonder that the donation to these municipalities and cities has been significantly reduced since 2000. It is good that the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development provides a significant item for the development of border areas from which I come, because so far we have the situation and the fact that border areas along the border are especially along the border with the neighbouring Republic of Slovenia far less developed and that we should work to at least get close to our development of neighbours. Finally, I would like to thank the current finance minister for not predicting the revenue side of the budget that his predecessor tried on one occasion when he regulated the purchase by the regulation... in border areas in neighbouring Slovenia. [[You don't understand.]] He specified that we can't buy over a liter of milk, a kilo of sugar and so on. True, that regulation was withdrawn in two days. The minister even offered to resign which he also withdrew in two days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4263	Thank you. Correction of Mr. Lesar's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4264	Thank you very much. I have to correct my colleagues' allegations that there were significant reductions in funds for municipalities, cities, or local self-government units in 2000. In the middle of 2001, by opening the process of decentralisation and by introducing the original income from income tax, which was increased by 3.5 billion from compensation, grant, or transfer of money until then to local self-government units on an annual basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4265	Thank you very much. He has the word Mr. Agent Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4266	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament. We have before us one of the most important documents in this Croatian Parliament, and I would say, with the adoption of the Constitution, one of the most important documents and certainly no wonders about this number of polemics and debates, as well as the reported number of representatives in connection with the state budget for 2004, I would say that it is also human. Each of us, 150 MPs, must have five projects that would want to be in this budget for 2004, so I'd say that's also human. And certainly of the 520 mayors and mayors, surely 500 and 20 of them have at least one project that would certainly want and justifiably want this project to be here in this 2004 budget, I would say is also human. But wishes are one, and possibilities are another. I must be honest that I myself had some wishes such as the D42 road leading from Vrbovski via Ogulin, Saborsko to Plitvice Lakes and as Minister Calmeta said, the government's interest is that cities and municipalities are quality connected to the road, so I hope deep if not this year, but certainly next year that this road will also enter the state budget and make a quality connection with the joint on the highway Zagreb - Split. My colleague Sopčić was talking about the Node of Novigrad, so I wouldn't repeat myself. Also, my wish was to find in the state budget a project to defend the City of Ogulin against floods. The city of Ogulin has experienced two catastrophic floods in the last five years. For now, it is not included in the project in the budget, but as far as I have seen, Mrs Adlesic has given the amendment and I support it in that part to raise the budget for flood defence not for the project, but generally for flood defence from 190 to 400 million kuna. Also, the Croatian Olympic Centre of Bjellolasica in the state budget is with 8 million kuna to prepare top athletes at the Bjellolasica Olympic Centre. The Croatian Olympic Centre "Belolasica" is the only Olympic centre in the state of Croatia and it is only on paper I would say the Olympic Centre. I think this House of the High, and first of all, the government needs to determine the status of the White House Olympic Center. Whether it will be an Olympic centre for the preparation of top athletes in the state of Croatia or whether our athletes will go on preparations in Austria, Germany and lately often in Slovenia. I believe that we should define the infrastructure at the Croatian Olympic Centre "Belolasica" and that the state must invest in the infrastructure at the Croatian Olympic Centre, which is primarily to create conditions for the preparation of top athletes, which is the hall, swimming pool and all that goes for the preparation of top athletes. I would be pleased to have at least one item in the 2004 budget with a minimum amount, as a project with a building permit exists on 55 million kuna and has a project, government approval for 27.5 million kuna for a loan with the Zagreb Bank, and for this other amount to be in the budget or to be recapitalised by the state. I would also like to see more funds for exiles, refugees, mainly for refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, for Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that these people need to resolve their status or allow them and allow them to return to their country of origin or create conditions if they want to stay here in Croatia, and I think that the state has a lot of state land equipped with infrastructure and that we should offer these people land, so to those who want to stay here live in this area. I still have many wishes, but I said wishes are one thing, opportunities are another. There's a saying in my neighborhood, "cover yourself as long as your blanket is long or wide." I'd say a good saying and I'm glad that Minister Schucker and the Government were managed to make a state budget with that goal that they covered up as much as they allowed, which could not be said for the previous government, because many ministers under the leg cover were seen I'd say up to my knees. I am pleased that the government is in the budget for 2004 I would say, I would not say that it has been behavioural and social, I would say it has acted realistically within the limits of the possibilities, and if it is realistic then it is safe and economic and social and I am glad that capital projects such as the reconstruction and restructuring of Croatian railways, the continuation of the construction of Croatian highways and other infrastructures are not stopped, but it may go on perhaps because of financial delinquencies with reduced dynamics. It is also certainly commendable that the budget found funds for Croatian defenders, for the family, for social contributions. Of course, I will support this budget as a representative and I am glad that all the parliamentary committees supported this budget and what surprised me a little bit, and especially as a new representative, yesterday we fought all day to be board members, so we almost politicized all day, and today, when the report by the board president and the committee's position, I don't think it matters to anyone at all who has concluded what the board has concluded, only if it were by chance something negative then it would cause attention and parliamentary representatives, and in particular the media. I don't think that's good. The transitional period or temporary budget financing is certainly good and thanks to the former government for allowing this government to enter power in a democratic way, but it is also not good for our economy and this should be regulated by the Law on the Transfer of Power to make this period as short as possible. That's what I'm saying because a few of the businessmen in the region of the state-owned state-owned county called me and said bring that budget, because we're on our way out. People don't get paid for situations and people just don't have the money to pay their employees for not getting a state budget anymore. So I urge all of you to bring in the state budget and listen to the advice and cry out those people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4267	Thank you, fellow Wolfie. For information, since I see a lot of people asking, there are 34 other agents reported for debate. Mrs. Ivana Sučec-Thrakostane. I'm sorry, I didn't see. I'm sorry, Mrs. Trakostane. Mrs. Gordana Sobol rectification of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4268	Very short. It is related to the Croatian Olympic Centre on Beolasica. As far as I'm aware, this Croatian Olympic Centre should not be on paper alone right now. The past government adopted their project to develop the Croatian Olympic Centre sometime in the middle of last year if I am not mistaken. I think somewhere in the project it is until 2012 when practically the Croatian Olympic Centre would act completely on its own, or finance itself. I think the past government recognized the comparative advantages of the very position of the Croatian Olympic Centre in Belarus. Thanks to the highway for an hour we're from Bjelalasica, and if there's hearing from the new government, maybe the other side of the road to Novi Vinodolski will be built and there will be even better opportunities for the development of the centre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4269	Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Ivana Judge-Thrakostane's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4270	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. One colleague saw our government floating over the water and in this way she painted it, and I see our government running along a path with a ball around her leg and of course it's not easy for her, especially for our minister who had to draw everything that others had imagined. Therefore, we are aware of the limitations and the difficult circumstances which are also previous debts, and the transferred funds from last year and of course insufficient funding for temporary financing because we have heard that they were not transferred for the rights of three months three 12ths in those amounts as far as last year, and then we would all probably have enough to budget and we would not be in these situations to not be able to pay off certain items, but we have to remember one more thing. So last year was an election year and it wasn't hard to choose to plan and promise what even those who did it weren't quite sure that they could and in what time they could even follow from the state budget. And that's where we come into a hot situation. We all have our mouths full of decentralisation, everything we'd like, but it turns out that we're very decentralisedly creatively making plans, and then very skillfully insisting that the central state register, the state budget and our ideas follow and finance. In this part, we should be aware, of course, that is the problem in every country, that in Croatia this is a particular problem. So it's impossible, and looking at only these amendments that arrive every minute, so here we can talk about the amendments and their number, and especially the funds that are required in them as additional, I believe that two income sides would not be enough to satisfy these appetites. So simply given the circumstances and the otherwise real situation and the economy and all those movements in us, we are aware that this budget is as planned, and it is only valid this year for 9 months and I already see all of us starting from September to draw a new budget for 2005, which I hope will be on other foundations with a lot of new laws and will be closer to those for which it is being passed. Everyone was talking a lot today about the budget and they were giving him a lot of attributes, and I'm going to give him another one. He's very warm to me, at the center of this budget are people, with capital investments along the road, railways and I don't know what in the first place are people, they're pensioners, they're births, they're defenders. So it doesn't matter what we think about it, it's important that the resources we've predicted for them think they and they as a humble part of the population are satisfied and with this beginning of a small improvement in their standard of living and I hope that we will all be able to increase that standard together. Maybe I should just say that no matter how much you let me touch that painful area of ours, and that's a negative trend in the birth rate, so a negative trend in the population. So, as much as we give, and we have positive examples that the Minister has suggested an increase in compensation, that some companies have started to support with very high amounts of individual birth with amounts, that every child born unfortunately and we must keep this in mind is always in charge of $5,000 and that they will have to think fatly about how during their lives it will hurt how to repay that debt that I repeat again is a very serious obstacle to faster development than it is today. Perhaps by doing so, I would say that one amendment of all these that we got on the bench because of it and extremely intrigued, and I don't know if I would call it the height of imagination or I don't know how otherwise, or remembering I was in the County House, remembering the 99th, 2000th, to this day I remember when the maternity benefits were 2600 and in 2000 were reduced, and then here I'm going to quote the amendment number 7 of Milanka Opačić's colleagues remembered and analyzed that this sentence was still small, and then when the new government came forward immediately to increase these fees, of course, because they were never too bad in the last 200 years, then they were also the 7th fellow Romanians in 2001 and 2002 and 2003, and the maternity benefits were still small, and then when the new government came forward immediately to increase those fees, of course not too much because they were never too much, but to return them to the fact of the fact that the fact that the latter was made by the latter. So, I would still go back to my County of Koprivnica-Crisisca from which I come and look at the resources that we have on the basis of our needs and of course we have capital investments, so I am glad that this is on the trail of what Mr. Prime Minister Sanader promised me to say to support when he was on a recent visit to our county, so that he encourages both the water supply and the purification of the town of Koprivnica and the Centre for Social Work to get some ongoing assistance and regional development and that those summed up are only 12.5 million kunas directly from the budget, and I indirectly expect that much more will be from Croatian roads, from Croatian Waters, from HEP, from HT and other public enterprises, or HT it is not but when I remember that 6.5 billion obligations of hypothetical speech could be allocated to 21 County, then perhaps my Koprivnica-Cry County would get more money from now. And in the end, of course, northwestern Croatia, especially Koprivnica and Križevci County has a number of small schools and everything else, and I see that there have been a series of these acquisitions, but I see that not everyone is ready to use the money right now, so I hope that the criteria for the assignment at the Ministry of Education were the preparation of projects for construction, so the possession of project documentation and the possession of building permits, which I hope these acquisitions of primary schools in the area of Koprivnica and Križevci County will be obtained by September, and then we would plan them in the construction applications for the next year and the basis for which people in my county are engaged is agriculture. Agriculture is also something that makes the Croatian Parliament face-to-face, and today I haven't heard a lot of words about agriculture, I've heard the most stories today, or problems in health care, but I think they're much bigger in agriculture. And it's fascinating and very creative to see that colleagues who don't even listen to me now, who have passed laws that they don't like but who we haven't arrived at, of course because we respect the procedure, we have to apply them as legalists until the moment we don't change them, so that these colleagues because of those laws that they passed after 2000, but clean tractors and warm machines and think about going out on the road with them, but I don't think that because I expect Mr. Cobankovic to see the problems that I remember well because I was a representative in the County House, I've advocated not to be a zero criterion of 3 hectares, but to get a bigger number of people less incentives and to get out of 0 and therefore not to introduce 800 kuna for imported calves on 1 January 2003, which was never until then, and I hope that we'll get rid myself of the amount of imports from a few years ago. So I expect Mr. Cobankovic to deny me if I said something wrong, but I expect changes to these laws and I hope there will be no reason to go out on the roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4271	Thank you very much. Next is a series of replicas and a correction of an incorrect quote. Dragutin Lesar first reported to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4272	Thank you very much. I simply have to get involved in this debate because a colleague in her budget debate referred to a large number of amendments coming to the draft budget asking for money for local projects. I agree that there are a large number of them, there will be a far greater number by Tuesday but that is the consequence of the 2 problems serious, the first thing that Croatia is in tax terms, the financial sense is still a highly centralised state, and that in 2001, the 2nd and 3rd, as agreed, has moved to the second phase of financial decentralisation here today would have a far smaller number of amendments. However, and so far it has been time to propose a continuation of that decentralisation which is not, and another reason of the strange criteria of regional distribution of state money because when I have summed it up, you are satisfied with the money that goes towards your county but from the point of view of Međimurje. I called this budget a budget on that syntagma of Croatia from Drava to the Adriatic, because through Drava you know very little Kuna goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4273	I thank my colleague Lesar. Replicate response, fellow Judge-Thrakostane.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4274	So, my colleague Lesar didn't say anything different than I said, and I agree, so you repeated what I said. And as for pleasure, of course, I'm not happy, but I accept that amount that we received or amounted as an emergency and as the only option and I'm grateful for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4275	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect alleged representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4276	A colleague of Trakostanec said that she especially liked this budget because it was warm because it especially meant women. This is not true because it is hard to believe that this is because only 280 thousand kuna are foreseen for the programme of preservation and improvement of women’s health, and for the prevention and early detection of breast cancer, only 200 thousand kuna, which is half a mammogram. If we assume that young people fall into people too, then they may have gone even worse because for them only 30,000 kunas are foreseen more from the position of the Youth Action Programme in the Ministry of Health. So much for the heat.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4277	I thank my colleague Jurjevic. Injury of my colleague Sučec-Thrakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4278	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I didn't say it at all, and you couldn't even fix what I didn't say. I told the pensioners there are men and women, the births are all I can assume for now are women and I told the defenders what both men and women are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4279	Thank you, colleagues. Correction of an incorrect quote from colleague Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4280	Thank you. My colleague says we're looking for decentralisation incorrectly, and at the same time we're looking for state aid to the amendments. That's not true. We are looking for further decentralisation, and since it is slowing down we are asking that now, we are looking for amendments to just secure funds under contracts and agreements under which these projects have been monitored for several years or for new projects that we are also looking for because there are no decentralised funds to be made out of the State budget. And colleagues, Trakostanec, imagine how much funding the programme could have been in 2000 if it hadn't been for nine billion and 900 million kunas of debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4281	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote by Ms Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4282	Well, I'm correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Judge-Thrascan who said this was my amendment. Wrong colleague, Trakostane. This isn't my amendment. This is Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's amendment. I, when I saw in this Budget that the resources on the item additional maternity leave and the equipment for the newborn child did not increase even by lip, and I know that Mrs Kosor has been investing amendments on the subject for years, so I suggested her amendment since I know that today she is no longer able to propose amendments to the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4283	Excuse me, fellow Judge. He can't replica on, he can't replica. [[No, no, no, the injury.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4284	I picked up the wrong one, I picked up the wrong one. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4285	Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4286	Then I ask Mrs. Opacic to correct Amendment 7 and write up Jadranka Kosor and sign it then, Jadranka Kosor. I'm asking you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4287	Mrs. Trakostanec, don't abuse the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. It's not appropriate somehow. The correcting of the incorrect quote was reported by a colleague, Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4288	I, I am correcting the incorrect assumption that in this budget everything Prime Minister Sanader has promised for a recent visit, please? I'm correcting an incorrect quote from a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4289	I'm asking you not to take the session out of the bench. Please, nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4290	Al’ protect the right to speak please. And pass me the time. So I am correcting the incorrect assumption that the prime minister, in this budget, is all what Prime Minister Sanader promised for a recent visit to Koprivnica-Kristevci County. There's almost nothing in there that he promised there. There are more witnesses here. It wasn't just Mrs. Ivana, Mr. Kolar, Mr. Cobankovic and I were at that meeting. There's nothing. There may be 1 prominence of what Mr. Sanader has generously promised in the Koprivnica-Cristian County. [[Intruder: Time, Mr. Representative.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4291	Time. The replica of Mrs. Milanka Opačić. You're giving up? Okay. Replica Mr. Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4292	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. So I think that Mrs. Sučec-Thrakostanec confused pears and apples because I am sure that the criteria for the allocation of funds against capital investment did not go by any standard but by the belonging of which party because I assure you that the projects with their own participation, with the building permit obtained, are not envisaged. That's one thing, and I'm up to Mr. Mršić, and we're witnessing a delusion that was made public to us, and it's out there, and it's not accepted. We have patience. We're waiting for our time, and I think we're going to prove that the delusions are going a long way off. And it shouldn't be pollemized without arguments. It should be arguments. I think these arguments were my amendments that were given with building permits solved in, in the projects were supposed to be, but they weren't, but unfortunately I witnessed the eighth year in a row to value everything in the same way depending on who they belonged to and how. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4293	Thank you, colleague Kolar. The answer to Mrs. Judge-Thrakostane's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4294	I don't know if I can read or don't know, I guess I still do. “They will finance the production of project documentation” in one solution. “I will from, will finance the production of the project” in another writes. “Build construction” in the third is expected. And they are, they're gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4295	Thank you. The replica of Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4296	Thank you... I will if they don't shut me down again. [[Speech is not enabled]] So I have to react and say that it is nice to feel the heat from the budget, and the heat refers to certain categories of citizens in Croatia who have increased the fees, are returning the rights as you say, and I ask whether this warmth you are talking about through this budget will recognise, say, the unemployed, since for the benefits of the unemployed is reduced to total funds compared to last year, and at the same time I have to say that I have not been able to find where through the budget the increased funds for employment programmes that have been reduced through the Employment Development Fund and the funds for active employment policy have been reduced. In a few days there will be a two-day seminar and a debate on the theme “National Employment Action Plan 2004” which will be attended by representatives of the Government, I expect, and for its achievement in the Budget I really wonder where the funds are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4297	Thank you very much. The answer to Mrs. Judge-Thrakostane's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4298	Although thermometers measure the temperature objective feeling of heat is always subjective so I leave that feeling to those for whom I repeat it, I also said that they should have it, and these are pensioners, they are defenders and they are births, and some of them were employed, they are pensioners. Parents probably the same, and defenders too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4299	Thank you. We're moving on to the debate. The next order is, excuse me, on behalf of Madam Jadranka Kosor, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4300	Thank you. Madam Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Writing amendments is a very serious job and I can testify as a representative in two terms and can now say as Deputy Prime Minister on behalf of the Croatian Government thank God that we no longer have to write amendments, thank God that we can realize what we have been up to for four years. So this government will return birth benefits to the 2000 level. They'll return the range from 1600 to two-and-a-half thousand kuna for the working mothers. Ladies and gentlemen, please also read the document that goes with the Budget, so the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. They will raise compensation for unemployed mothers from 900 to 1600 kuna and will, of course, restore the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave. Because we have, that the Government has the support in the Croatian Parliament and has the support of the Croatian public because just returning these measures to the Croatian public has been marked and rated as one of the best and best moves of this government, we will therefore realise it with the 2004 Budget. Unfortunately, the funds were reduced because the number of children born was reduced, so less children were never born in Croatia, but last year. Never in the last 200, but 220 years. That's the real information. Therefore, I appeal on behalf of the Government that, of course, the amendments are properly written, this is a very serious job, and once again I am pleased to say, here is the time for everything that we have talked about in this House as a first-class national, political, couple of excellent political issues, as a defence issue, a question of all issues, because it is about Croatia's future. I must say, by the way, that we have also set up Councils on Population Policy with excellent demographics and other experts, who said at the first session. We thank the government, welcome this government move and say, "If this trend continued in less than 50 years we would lose an entire Zagreb, ladies and gentlemen." They welcome, therefore, the return of three-year maternity leave, because they believe it is one of the possible first steps in stopping a negative demographic trend. I thank you. and ask the Croatian Parliament to support this proposal of the Croatian Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4301	Thank you, thank you. To correct the incorrect allegations, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4302	It is incorrect that we do not have to write amendments as the colleague, Mrs. Vice President Kosor, says. I have to write the amendment, because, for example, for the sewerage in Sunday in my county, a two-year contract is scheduled for 2.5 million, here in the budget of a million-and-a-half. For the Tuk City in Čakovec for sale of the building that has been paid so far with 8 million kuna and this year should be paid, the last war with about 4.9 million kuna, is not in the budget. I ask you nicely, Mrs. Kosor, let the government do it until the budget is adopted, I will gladly withdraw my amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4303	Thank you, Mrs. Zgrebec. The next is Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic's debate. Here you go, Mrs. Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4304	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. It is said of the budget, and it is indeed, the most important key document that is being brought into each Parliament during one year, as well as in the Croatian Parliament. He's actually an interesting reading from which everything can be read. All the weaknesses, all the problems, but also all the priorities, all the instruments and all the measures that will be taken to solve these problems and those weaknesses. Unfortunately, however, it seems to me that this budget is not very clear and shows what measures these are and what instruments the Croatian government will implement economically and all those other policies it has set itself by presenting its programme here in the Croatian Parliament. I won't comment on whether this budget is social, or developmental. He's probably both. It is only a matter of priorities that will define those important, key, state priorities, major national projects and separate them from the petty daily political or propaganda political priorities, which are also being implemented, read from this, and any other previous or future budget. What I would like to warn in principle is one of my very dangerous facts and a serious problem, which is that the key, definitely the biggest and most serious problem in the Republic of Croatia, was and will be the problem of unemployment and new employment from this budget is not read as a national priority or as one of the national priorities. Not only through those items that the Sobol colleague had just talked about, which relate to encouraging employment measures, but through all those parts of the budget that should be read as major key, systematic development projects that they then have for the result, I would say a chain reaction at the microeconomic level, which is read through one increased activity of economic operators and which, as a result, has the best social measure, which is the new employment and isolation of our citizens to stop being dependent on social assistance, whatever they were in, but to continue to live on their work and on their earnings. It's my general remark, and I'll be happy if by half this year or by the end of this year she's been denied. I, in fact, fully understand the problems that the Croatian government has in putting together budgets, we have had them, and will probably have them every future government for quite a number of years. However, the problems that exist, and which are so spoken of, whether they are spoken of by opposition or by authority, should not be covered up, should be clearly spoken of, and found consensus precisely in the definition of priorities and then, through that budget, such as, no matter why, try to solve these problems. Let me now, in this brief time that we have to discuss, look back at, for me, three interesting areas. The first is certainly the Ministry of Defence and the budget of defence and security. No matter how many ministers here today have tried to explain that a transfer of defence expenditure to finance is just as planned a reduction in the number of employees as you said layoffs when we did it. As it opens space for some savings and some additional funds, there remains an inexplicable fact that the Ministry of Defence was cut off compared to last year for approximately 500 million kuna. When we turn this into a percentage of gross social product, then those fixed and necessary long-term fixed and planned, which is the necessary condition for the general defence system planning, 2.2% fell to approximately 1.9%. And that's a big problem. The Ministry of Defence will also survive, the security of the Republic of Croatia will not be compromised as you could comment last four years attacking and accusing us of neglecting and underestimating and subjugated some other priorities, one of the most important state priorities will not be. But one serious big national project would be at risk. A project of reform of the armed forces that is not only important to us because of NATO's accession to the alliance, but also has multiple effects on reducing state spending to a better redistribution of public money to the efficiency of defence and security and to a whole series of other parts of this budget. So if I can conclude in the end, and on more social money. There won't be any reform, at least I believe in it all the way rejected. However, it will be significantly slowed down, and if there is no additional motivation or additional funding, I think it is compromised, its implementation is seriously compromised. It's certainly my attitude, my thinking but based on a thick experience from some past periods. The defence budget can give priority to someone else but the reform of the defence system and security system in Croatia cannot fall into a lower order of priorities than it has so far and you will see it cost you to a fellow minister, it will cost you such a priority setting. You'll see it very soon. I'm afraid we'll meet very soon at the budget rebalancing debate and especially in this segment. The second part of which I want to say concerns the health sector mentioned here. I will, unlike my colleagues, perhaps it will surprise you all, commend all these items that are here and especially praise what has been criticised here and that is the withdrawal of 30 million kuna to build a Clinical Hospital Center in Mostar. Don't be surprised because it makes sense because the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the previous term along with many of the Zagreb Clinical Hospital and the Holy Spirit General Hospital, the Faculty of Medicine, and I personally made a major contribution to the project to complete the construction of the hospital. However, there is one but. As I can welcome this, I cannot only welcome 35.5 million individualisations for clinical hospitals in Croatia. I will welcome and congratulate both Professor Hebrang and Professor Turic for fighting to make their two institutions the most valued in this, but I certainly will not agree with all those other institutions that also have needs and also have priorities and heal the same people in this country but for completely unknown reasons, someone here said today, it is an indicator of political rematch left without the necessary resources. Here I'm only talking about funds for capital investment in equipment and buildings. There's a hospital in Virovitica, there's a whole series of hospitals. The amendments will be made manifest. The third area I want to mention and which I think is undervalued in this budget is the area of information. The report shows that around 11% was reduced. That's how they...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4305	Time, colleague Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4306	Until he starts titrating.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4307	It's red already.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4308	In this way, all those key projects that need to ensure better, better quality and faster supervision of budget spending have been neglected and you will see because this is the only way to put budget spending under control, and you are talking a lot about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4309	Titra colleague Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4310	I'm done, dear Vice President. You'll see that this is a lot, a lot too little for these items.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4311	Thank you very much. The correcting of the incorrect allegations was reported by Mr. Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4312	counterpart Antunovic cited an allegation that I am refuting because she called the most intelligent policy a day's propaganda priorities. I think the situation with regard to the birth rate and its fall for all of us is so dangerous and catastrophic and these data are cited by experts, not politicians, that everyone should support the measures taken and not call them daily propaganda priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4313	Thank you. A correction of the incorrect allegations was reported by Mr. Representative Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4314	Dear Mrs. Antunovic, since you called me thank you. I must say, my facility is a tumor clinic. Let me be allowed to say that oncological analysts say that this disease will unfortunately be in the first place not only this century, but I am correcting the following, that my clinic has not received a single lip, it has been predicted since before but has been predicted for the entire four years and we have never received anything. But I have to say. The wrong allegation is that some of the hospitals you know well that you were standing behind, even as defence minister, were coming where it was being created, I was present, so I can confirm that they got 70m euros to build hotels, centres, shops, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4315	I'm sorry. Correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4316	Here, that's exactly it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4317	Thank you. Mr. Andrija Hebrang, vice president of the government, came forward. Here you go, Mr. Hebrang!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4318	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honored ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! I would like to correct a few things that have been interpreted wrongly here by the esteemed Ms. Antunovic. First of all, employment. Of course, employment is not just a direct investment in the Employment Service. It's symptomatic therapy, cause therapy. The treatment of the cause is an investment in an economy that promotes the so-called economy. Circle, chain circle of employment. In the process of this budget you can see how advanced he was and how much he went into employment from the following data. The subsidy to companies, craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs outside the public sector is higher by 13.4% than last year. Subsidy to companies outside the public sector is 17.3% higher than the last budget or subsidies to farmers, craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs 16% higher than the last budget. So it's a multiple increase in investment in small entrepreneurship, agriculture. So this is the right way of developing entrepreneurship, economy and employment, and those symptomatic ways of treating or unemployment know how they ended last year. And now a few things about health care. I never like to politicize with health because health care is and is life and health, but when it's so politicized here, then let us also tell a few truths about that health care. This investment budget is the richest in Croatian health history. Namely, this year in this budget as you could add up 280 million kuna is direct investment in healthcare from the budget plus 400 million kuna from decentralised funds. It's 680 million kuna investment in health care which we certainly didn't even have at the time when we had the biggest investment in health care and that was when we built war-torn health facilities. It's not true that investment in clinical hospitals is only 35 million kuna. 35 million kuna is new investments, but there should also be payments of loans due this year. It's a loan from the Council of Europe and a World Bank loan. The Council of Europe's loan of € 108 million and the World Bank's loan of €20 million. 90% of that is investments in clinical hospitals. So you need to know how to read the budget and then things are much simpler. I also have to say something about starting investments. The investment I temporarily suspended until this budget was passed was illegal. These investments will continue if the budget is adopted because only then is the Budget Act that we have the expenditure item and we can enter the tender. Therefore, 25 times in the Jubilee, I have denied Mr. Jurjevic. Investment in the Clinical Hospital Split has not been stopped. The investment goes, the birthplace will be built, the kitchen will be completed because Split was included in the 2004 payment for the clinical hospital. Well, I guess we won't pay more than the agreed war and that's 7.5 million kuna. But I must also warn that next year's war is 36 million kuna. And in 2006, it is $19.5 million, and it will also include ministers who will decide on the budget that year in their items. So the investment goes, but the investment is based on the laws of the Croatian state. It is also incorrect that we have not implemented our pre-election investment programme in the islands. There are 10 million kunas in the islands as agreed for this year and we are negotiating the next 10 million kunas that we will put into the budget for next year because it will be the continuity of these investments. It is also not true that KBC Zagreb does not receive a historic investment of 540 million kuna because we accepted it but we will correct it, comply with the laws. We're not stopping the investment. As we will not suspend investments in KBC Rijeka, KBC Split etc., we will not suspend any agreed investment if they receive items in this budget. If they don't, then of course we can't go against the decision of the Croatian Parliament. And a few more words about Virovitica, someone mentioned it. Virovitica is covered this year with 4 million and 200 thousand kuna administratively as foreseen in the previous contracts. We can't put more than we agreed on because it can't even be executed anymore. So exactly how much it's agreed on for Virovitica is as much involved. One of the respected MPs mentioned information, it's the only one, the only contracted obligation I'm going to try to break up for one simple reason that's illegal. Not because 66 million kunas were signed after the elections, but because they are not elements for the development of information based on the information that has been made so far, a whole new project has been created that is not a continuation of the investment so far, but is the beginning and destruction of everything that has been made so far and the beginning of the new investment. That's why we'll only go to the information store after a full record of the state of information that went from three sources: the Ministry, from individual institutions, from HZZO and these projects were not united, they will now be. And finally something about Mercury and tumors, the honored representative of Professor Turkish has already partly responded why Mercury and the tumour clinic have seemingly higher investments than other institutions. This is only apparent because the other institutions have investments already agreed and which come from the Council of Europe's projects and loans from the World Bank. Unfortunately, these two clinics were not included in these loans. Why they haven't been included in the last four years, it's a matter of discussion. I'm not going to politicize here. But the fact is that these two clinics haven't received any June investments in the past four years, literally not one June. We have placed them in priority for two reasons: about tumors you have heard, it is unfortunately a disease of today and we are obliged to finance such special institutions and Mercury Clinical Hospital is our leading institution in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases which are also unfortunately leading to the improvement of the sea, so we are obliged to invest in secondary prevention and treatment of cardiovascular diseases. Therefore, I think that we have distributed the investments fairly, continued the previous ones, added 80 million more of our development investments this year to those acquired and still included 400 million decentralised funds to go to county hospitals. This kind of development budget has not had health care since the Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4319	I thank Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr Marin Jurjevic reported on the correcting of the incorrect allegations. Here you go, Mr. Jurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4320	It is not true that Mr. Vice President Hebrang said that the tenders related to the clinical hospital projects in Split were against the law. It is true that you have prevented the presentation of the programme, the project. construction of gynecology and so slowed down that whole process of obtaining permits, etc., and the documentation needed to get into it as soon as possible. I will be very pleased if a project like all citizens is realised specifically, a project to build a Split maternity site and do so as soon as possible. But one stage was stopped and thanks to one day in the history of Split, when the fog did not land the plane, it was all organized the second time it was all done. If it wasn't for the fog, it might have been that presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4321	Thank you. Mrs Zeljka Antunovic reported on the correcting of the incorrect allegations. Here you go, Mrs. Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4322	I want to correct three incorrect allegations. The first incorrect quote gives a health information project that will, here's how we heard Minister Hebrang stop illegally. He's legitimate, but Minister Hebrang doesn't like him, so he'll stop him. It is also incorrect that I was talking about a health information project at all, I was talking about the overall information gaps and the information project is just one of these projects. And it's an incorrect assumption that I've called a medical hospital Mercury or tumors, but I've clapped, congratulated and commended you, these separations. But it's also incorrect that Mercury Hospital had not been singled out in the previous period, it had been singled out for transplants, it had been funded for transplants, this blood vessel was financed, and so on, all this stuff that belongs to the profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4323	Thank you. On behalf of the government, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4324	Honored Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I've got to fix this for our patients and insurance companies who are spending a lot of money on this health care, so they have the right to know the truth. As far as Mercury Clinical Hospital is concerned, there's been no investment in four years. We financed the transplant project ourselves from our regular funds coming from HZO based on our accounts, which is illegal because these funds cannot go into investment. But what happened most frighteningly is that in that hospital, the project threw out a urology department that cared for 180 thousand inhabitants of the centre of Zagreb 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. 180 thousand Zagreb residents since then if they have an active urological problem instead of the nearest hospital they must travel to the clinic Dubrava and we know what it means to come from the city center to the clinic hospital Dubrava. It's the cost of developing a transplant project. Of course, these are projects we need to discuss urgently. Just one more explanation for the information. Information takes place from two sources. One is the source of this budget, another is the source of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. The funds will total more than 150 million kuna this year. Such huge money we are obliged to unite and run a single information project. Now, I'm replaying three projects, and these three projects are completely out of sync. One is an international project involving 5 hospitals, the second is the Ministry of Health project, and the third is the HZZO project. What is the consequence of this information? That the Ministry of Health can't get a single piece of information from the constitutionals, that the Ministry of Health can't get a single piece of information from HZZO. That HZZO can't get any information from the Ministry and that HZZO can't get any information from the institutions. Drive the track in different directions, we will now direct those tracks in one direction, which is the direction of informing the Croatian health system in line with the European Union's criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4325	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Gordana Sobol came forward to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go, Mrs. Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4326	Well, I want to correct the part where Mr. Deputy Prime Minister spoke about measures, i.e. employment policy, that is, this budget takes care of employment measures as well. I must say that I think it is not true because there is no means to implement active measures for the employment policy in the budget. I will once again warn of something called the National Employment Action Plan 2004 which our country should bring in for what is inside it as guidelines of the European Union, the 10 guidelines of the European Union do not have in the budget of funds. These are guidelines to encourage employment. As signatories of the Association and Stabilisation Agreement, we have made a commitment to work in accordance with the guidelines of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4327	Thank you, Mrs. Sobol. If you can get two more corrections to the incorrect quote to wait for Mr. Hebrang, then you can react together. Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4328	It is incorrect that Minister Hebrang said that urological patients are moving the Urological Clinic to the Dubrava Clinical Hospital that their right to health care has been compromised. It is true that their right has been improved because they have been treated in far better quality conditions since then than it was in an old hospital. It is also an incorrect assumption that the Health Information Project is bad because it cannot obtain the requested information. It's true that it can't be won, but because the project isn't complete and it hasn't yet become operational. He's at a high level, out of 80% of the performance he's dilated, interrupted and all the money he's invested, the effort and time of the experts, no state money will be thrown into the wind because Mr. Hebrang wants it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4329	Thank you, Mrs. Antunovic. It is Mr. Andrija Hebrang, Vice-President of the Government, on behalf of the Proposer. Here you go, Mr. Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4330	Honored Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. More like hiring. It is true that the direct investment project in employment was reduced simply because it produced poor results. I invite you now to follow the section of the group and the class that I will quote: "Section 35, Section 352 "Subsidy to Trade Companies", so the production incentive increased by 13.4%. Section 3522 "Subsidies to companies outside the public sector" boosted 17.3%. Section 3523 "Subsidies to farmers, craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs" increased by 16.8%." I remind you, the entire budget has been increased by 4%. So, these are multiple increases in incentives, than we had last year, and this will result in multiple increases in employment. And I need to talk about information again. I appreciate that Mrs. Antunović knows the health system so well. But we have 11 thousand signatures of security guards from the centre of Zagreb protesting the abolition of urology in the KB Mercury and therefore we have to return it. Their health care at the KB Dubrava which let me know well because I managed to save that hospital by negotiating from Mr. Rushete and his clicks because I was president of the Board of Directors for 11 years, because I managed to get her from the level of the Military Hospital to the level of the Clinical Hospital. Well, I guess I know something about her, don't I? In that hospital, of course, there are no conditions for the urological protection of all these patients, so these new ones that have come. That's where my dear friends are waiting for your kidney tumor surgery for four months. Such an operation unfortunately doesn't need a patient anymore. For this reason, we must correct such wrong moves that have not been conditioned by health requirements. And finally, for information. The information has been invested in the past 4 years by 120 million kuna. For that money, the information was supposed to work so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4331	I thank Mr. Hebrang. The correcting of the incorrect quote was reported by Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4332	It is an incorrect finding that active policy measures have not produced results because I don't know where the data came from, but in the Koprivnica-križevci County, because of these measures in the last two years, the number of unemployed has fallen, and for example, in the last month alone, we have employed 5 100% disabled people using these active employment policies.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4333	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Next up is Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4334	Thank you. Madam President, members... if you can provide me with peace, if not I will give up the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4335	I think it's just a little fatigue. Be my guest, Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4336	Yeah, and time you have to add this to me. Honorable president, respected members of the government. The budget is definitely the most important annual act adopted by the representative body. That is why the Budget Act prescribed that everything must be contained. Not only does it determine the financing of public needs and meeting the needs of citizens in the current financial year, but the one-year budget defines 1/4 of the period, including the entire term of office as a whole. Let's ask ourselves a question like this. Would a budget this structured if by any chance the budget of the City of Velika had been passed on to the city council? Anyway, you wouldn't. And if by any chance the councilmen would raise their hands for a budget like this, I'm sure the Office of State would return it to re-determination because it doesn't satisfy the form. It's not made up according to the Budget Law. What's missing? There are at least two missing parts. There is no projection for the next 3 years and there is no job plan, i.e. staff policy for the next 3 years. If we got that, we'd see this time whether the ruling majority that promised to cut the VAT actually in 2005 because they would see the VAT revenues cut. As a result, the revenues in 2005 would be 4 billion kunas, not 6 and a half billion as long as the previous period reportedly is. Secondly, the planned job plan would see how many employees will be reduced over the next 4 years, i.e. what kind of staff policy and staff needs of the Croatian government and all ministries should be in the next 4 years. It was quite enough time to do so because 23.12. entered into force of the Law on Government and the ministries were given a provision that within 60 days they had to adopt internal organisation regulations, and therefore also on systematisation, which means that in 23.02 we could have systematization and quite evidently see how many people we needed to achieve the Government's programme during this term of office. Unfortunately, there is no such thing, and there remains the uncertainty of a portion of state administration employees who do not know whether or not they will be fired in the next four years. On the other hand, good human resources management was able to create or educate needed personnel because we are all in agreement about the lack of highly educated and professional staff by the Croatian public administration. There's a question. Why can't Minister Shuker do something that Mayor Shuker shouldn't? And now allow me a few words to look back on what concerns my constituency, so II. the electoral unit which, by my judgment in this budget, is completely forgotten. The budget deletes everything relating to the resolution of transport isolation in II. the electoral unit. There is no new railway Gradec - Sveti Ivan Žabno - Bjelovar, and it is prepared and decided to start building buildings in this year. There is no extension of the remont track Long Village - Vrbovac - Križevci - Koprivnica - Botovo. There's no beginning to build a second track of that same railroad. There's no refurbishment of the station on that same track. What concerns us is that we do not have projects, or the Programme of Croatian Roads, so it is quite certain that this year it will not start to build a fast road of Greda - Gradec as part of a sub-level implosion, i.e. the continuation of this fast road and it is quite certain that it will not be realised in that plan as promised by all the political parties in the pre-election campaign. It is astounding that the financial flows are so perfectly flowing from the 2nd electoral unit to Zagreb, as they apply only an outflow of funds, and the funds are almost gone. For example, for example, 2.7% of the population of Croatia living in Koprivnica-križevci County is a matter of about 5% of the tax revenues of the Republic of Croatia and returns just over 1.5% of the tax revenues. It is particularly disappointing that there is no example of a project to build a new high school building in Koprivnica, because today three secondary schools in Koprivnica with more than 80 classrooms have classes in only 25 classrooms, which means teaching takes place in three shifts. So far, the city and the county have turned all the halls and individual sanitary nodes into classrooms so that students of high schools can have at least space, unconditional but at least room for teaching. In preparation for the project of the new high school building, the city has invested 15 million kuna so far, and we really expected to start in a partner relationship between states, counties and the city this year and finish building it next year. Of course, there is no extension of secondary schools in Đurđevec and Križevci and a legitimate question arises where children from Koprivnica-križevci County will go to high school because education in Koprivnica-križevci County is below the national average. There is no necessary means for the reconstruction of the general hospital of Dr. Tomislav Bardek, because the budget envisions 19 million kuna from the World Bank's loan, however 10 million kuna is for intellectual services, and another week should open bids for construction works worth $8m to be invested this year on the World Bank's loan. The credit should be completed by 30 June of next year. We don't know what will be done with the competition that was conducted under the law, which has been implemented according to international standards and rules. The life problem of Koprivnica-križevci and Bjelovar-Bilogor County is water supply. Only slightly more than 20% of the population and the two counties have the opportunity to join the public water supply. We expected the Ministry of the Sea and Croatian Water to accept, or implement, investment studies that were accepted, but for projects that should be realised this year in excess of 150 million kuna for one county is 5 million for another 4.5 million kuna. I don't know how we're going to explain to people that they won't be in a position to have water this year either. Water is something that is not a luxury, water is something that is a living need. They have to go miles to get drinking water just a few meters from the Drava River. Furthermore, I think that this assembly of Parliament, and we, therefore, most of us new here, were to receive a plan of the Croatian Roads for 2005 as the last year of the four-year period. But what I'm saying is that in the Croatian Roads budget, it increases 10% by 60 Lips, that item by 60 Lips, but everything goes for state roads. Although there are only 7 thousand kilometers of state roads in Croatia, 21 thousand kilometers of county roads. State roads will receive a billion and 480 million and county only 240 million. The same is the situation with Croatian waters, I think we should have received a one-year plan of Croatian waters and not just a financial plan. A question of decentralisation. We expected further decentralisation, but the funds from a billion and 100,000 kuna in the last year decreased to a billion and 50,000 kuna in this year at the Fund for Alignment while helping cities and municipalities from 127 million to 36 and counties from 80 to 39. I expected the percentages of decentralised funds to increase in this year. So the question arises whether local self-government units will be able to realise projects, but also meet citizens' needs. Unfortunately, it is the impression that tax revenues are mainly related from northwestern Croatia, so the question is, how long will Croatia's development locomotive be able to drive if we don't give it money or fuel? And finally, I would like to appeal, I would like to invite Minister Shucker to re-encourage Mayor Shucker in order to manage in the government to fight for everything that we have recently advocated together in the Committee on Local Self-Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4337	I'd like to thank my colleague, Mrs. Gristle. On behalf of the government, Minister Shuker reported. You will allow Mrs. Judge-Thrakostane to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4338	It is incorrect that nothing will be done this year to improve access to Koprivnica, so as one of the six HDZ MPs, I held talks in the Croatian roads, the Vrbovec bypass will be done, further project documentation for the fast road towards the Hungarian border. The railway will be completed to the Hungarian border and a second track will be done, but within Croatian and Croatian roads, because this is a state road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4339	Thank you. On behalf of the government, Mr. Secretary Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4340	Well, I think as far as local self-government is concerned, local self-government hasn't gone at all, but I would just like to say to my colleague Mršić that the budget still needs to be read as it is. Last year was for extra funds for... The decentralised function of 900 million, and this year it's a billion and 50 million, and that's what's going through here all day, you read one digit, you don't look at other positions, and then you take it that way. [[You don't understand.]] So this year it's 150 million more than last year and you can't say it's less. If a billion and 50 is less than 900 million, it's an honor. It's another thing. By law on the financing of local self-government units and the Income Tax Act last year after poor experiences in the summer of 2003, when many local self-government units in the area of special government care for the return of income tax remained blocked, the government made a good suggestion that in 2004, this return was made out of the state budget and when you look at the table of the funds provided for by these funds, in fact to those units of local self-government in areas of special state care, then you will see that 136 million kuna was foreseen in the budget. However, 160 million kuna and 709 thousand is a return on income tax for these units of local self-government and normally if one unit of local self-government was foreseen a donation of 5 million kuna, and there is 10 million kuna tax on the original, of course it will not get those 5 million kunas because it is already for 5 million kuna because these 5 million kunas will not be returned from its giro-account but will be returned from the giro-account of the state. So it's not good, it's not smart, and I'm sorry for this expression, to manipulate the data. Why? Because many colleagues, mayors and mayors expect funds from the budget. And if you say that the decentralised functions are reduced, and they're not reduced, they're increased by 150 million and I don't see what the meaning of that message is. Because you can't, look at the execution plan by 31.12.2003 is 900 million kuna, this year is the plan of a billion and 50 million kuna. So let's deal with the data and the facts as they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4341	Correction of the incorrect allegation Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go, Mr. Gristle.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4342	First of all, if we got the budget as prescribed by the law, then we could probably talk about the same data. But we didn't get the budget by 31. Well, 12, obviously we have different data. I have information that in 2003, a billion and 100 million were allocated to decentralised functions, and you, as mayor of the recent Mayor of the Great Gorica, should know that we received funds of decentralisation within the 12th month in the instructions of the Ministry of Finance in the first month and that we booked our budgets at the 12th month as income of the 12th month. So maybe I have the wrong information, I have the information that last year was a billion and 100, now it's a billion and 50, you have 900 that is a billion and 50, you need to see what data would be good if we got that data from 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4343	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Next up, Mr. Jure Bitunjac, here you go, Mr. Bitunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4344	Thank you. Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Listening for the first time to the discussion when it comes to the state budget, I can say that I have remembered all the local budgets at local levels since the age of 93 in here where I participated in different functions and in different ways. My opinion is that the framework is the same, certain frameworks are given when it comes to the state budget and also the budgets of local self-government units. What I would point out especially when it comes to the 2004 budget is that it is realistic, objective and that in this direction I congratulate the Minister of Finance and, first and foremost, the Prime Minister and all ministers on the draft budget that is before us. The proposal itself confirms the defacto and programme of the Croatian Democratic Community so that certain policies that were in our programme when it comes to development, when it comes to social security policy, etc., they are implemented in this draft budget and I expect as much of us as their absolute achievement. Let me just briefly refer to some of the words and discussions I've heard here. First of all, when it comes to the honorable representative of Mr. Racan. In fact, he has made an effort in his presentation to question the concept of development and when it comes to social policy, the concept of social policy which is outlined in this budget. However, I must say that he has lost sight of the framework from which this government and all state ministries are leaving. The debt that has already been created and the obligations that have not been displayed, I would say that they are not in some way enlisted if I speak... in terminology. I can also say that there are other discussions, and even from the esteemed Mr. Church, that they're heading towards god's optimism, in fact, I think an old lapus has fallen, and that's a planned economy. However, I have no intention of talking much about global relations but I would like to return to the areas of units of local self-government and say something that is characteristic not only of the Split-Dalmatia County but also of most units of local self-government, cities and municipalities mainly in areas of special state care regardless of where they are. Namely, when it comes to water supply, we know that there are several models present and according to these models that have tried to solve water supply problems on the one hand we had World Bank credit lines, on the other hand the loans of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development when it comes to the loans of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development we know that this relationship was 70:30 where 70% of the funds were required to return units of local self-government, i.e. end-users and 30% of Croatian water. And as far as the World Bank's credit is concerned, I must say, I must point out that these loans are in full effect when it comes to local self-government units. However, the units of local self-government were not in a position to choose a model, or line of credit they would accept, and thank God they accepted those models and those credit lines that were then available. I would like to stress the following that most of the Dalmatian Zagora and most of the units of local self-government in solving water supply when it comes to Split-Dalmatia County reached out for the loans of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which were borne by Croatian Waters. Thus, the commitments of the Split-Dalmatia County amount to around 18m euros, guarantees are given at 11m euros. The payment came in at 31st. 12. 2003. 25 million kuna. Given that the units of local self-government have given guarantees and the county... guarantees are being exposed in some way, they are being exposed to the position of blocking their accounts so I would suggest, using the presence of the Deputy Prime Minister here, I would suggest that the Government of the Republic of Croatia put a rest in terms of obligations to the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development until 31. 12. In 2004, in order to avoid blocking the giro-account, and on the other hand, I think that time should be used to find new credit-back models where the resources of the state budget in the coming years would facilitate the position of the units of local self-government on those commitments. I have in mind, in particular, the obligations of municipalities and cities that have been threatened by war. In this way, I would like to conclude my brief presentation and appeal and ask the Deputy Prime Minister here to take a position on this matter in cooperation with the Croatian waters and the relevant ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4345	Thank you, dear fellow Beatunach. It is your turn, dear colleague Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4346	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Each budget is a financial explication of the Government programme but within the frameworks which determines a macroeconomic environment with restrictions imposed on the commitments made and outstanding from the previous period and with the adaptation of priorities of the above mentioned performance conditions. This government whose draft budget we are discussing has earned congratulations that it has managed to produce a quality budget in a short time and deliver it to the Assembly for consideration, noting that it refers only to a period of 9 months. Only next year will the government be able to make a budget for the entire annual period. But congratulations are worth even more to the fact that under the unfavourable circumstances economic activity falls, the galloping expansion of external debt, the high transferred liabilities from the previous period and the maturity so far the biggest debt payments, 2.5 times more than it was paid last year. She succeeded in keeping macroeconomic stability fully or partly in fulfilling her pre-election promises to pensioners, defenders, mothers and families. Furthermore, the continuation of capital investment projects in road construction, housing and transport infrastructure has been ensured. As well as the increase in salaries in the state administration according to the collective contract. That it's not easy when it comes to a two-and-a-half-way payment of interest loans totaling 21.3 billion kuna, and your predecessors spend in advance 6.4 billion kuna. It is convincing for all and even for those who have made significant use of inverse logic to comment on other people’s concerns. I am pleased that the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity has received 5.6 billion kuna, which the government has found funds to increase maternity benefits and pay back the backlog, behind the defenders that the demands of the pensioners are also satisfied. At least for this step. As a man of the sea, I welcome first the establishment of the Ministry of the Sea in the name, which is provided for 230 million kuna in the Budget for the Islands and which will be built on the further 177 kilometers of the Zagreb-Split highway. I acknowledge to the economy minister that he has not forgotten the shipbuilding process, expecting the budgets to accompany the government's quality organisational and personnel moves in this exceptional export branch of the economy. The increase in investment in science and education confirms the postulate of this government that science is an essential component of development, and I will recognise the local patriotic that the government's developmental commitment assures me of a special figure of 55 million kuna designed to continue the construction of Split's university campus. I also do not hide the local patriotic pleasure that in the Budget and the construction of a craftsmanship school in Split, which was also in the Budget in the past term, but the Split Headship in cooperation with this previous government in rebalancing completely deleted it. My colleague, Marina Jurjevic, I suggest you find on page 180 that the Split maternity home as well as the KBC kitchen is foreseen with 7 and a half million kuna. The truth minister said that in the meantime, but since you believe only what the text says, that's what you argued about the cultural items pages 180 if you'd made an effort, you wouldn't have to use that table allegation wrong. Furthermore, since funds have been provided for the hospital, I have to show my concern that it may not be enough for this important investment to really start because I know that the former director who has been with you Mr. Jurjevic has performed press conferences and has been trying to make an affair around this investment has done nothing to obtain spatial documentation and preconditions for investment. A detailed plan to arrange space for that area, which is a prerequisite for any specific actions regarding obtaining a building permit and opening an investment, has not yet been launched in the process, although it was four years old, so I don't think Mr. Minister should even be entrusted with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4347	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote by his colleague Jurjević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4348	A colleague mentioned, what, seven million kunas? Seven and a half, great. Construction and adaptation and equipment costs only 32 million kuna, and with 7 and a half million kuna, and even with Mr. Vice President banned and suspended or attempted a contest, and he continued, he showed his strong will to stop things. In order to obtain these permits that you are talking about among other things, it was also necessary to have this presentation, which was scheduled. That day the plane didn't come, landed for fog, and then the one scheduled for next Friday was banned by Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health. We understood it as an attack on how those things start to come true. Maybe you had plans I don't know what to do now is presented in what way, but really if we forget All the political signs were then the obstruction of these projects. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4349	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Mr. Andrija Hebrang has the word. Here you go, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4350	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, for re-resuming the Split hospital and its facilities as a maternity and kitchen. So the information that's listed is also guilty. The kitchen costs 50 million kuna in total. It'll be going on in three years. The Ministry of Health is obliged to book 36.6 million kuna, in this year virtually nothing but 200 thousand kuna. Such dynamics are agreed and signed and we will respect it but in 2005 for the kitchen in Split already 12 thousand 200 million kuna. Also in 2006 and already according to how the loan was agreed further. As for the hospital and its birthplace here, the project envisioned a loan of 71 million kuna from the Council of Europe. Of which, the Ministry of Health is obliged to pay all 71 million kuna, but again according to the agreed dynamics of which this year is 7 million kuna. So it's not our fault it's such a dynamic. It's a good thing, but as of next year, the Ministry of Health has to allocate 23 million kunas to the Council of Europe, so it's all agreed, it's all introduced into these sections, and that's how it's going to be achieved. I didn't stop Mr. Jurovic from doing that project. I only recommended that the project be reduced to the limits of the law of the Croatian state. Therefore, it is not possible to go into construction or into anything until the expenditure item in this House has been approved and in the State budget item. And the fact that you haven't now, as we've heard, come up with neither a local permit nor a building permit nor a project that's done, but only the ideas will, of course, lead to construction, but not because of our guilt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4351	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's Mr. Niko Rebic's turn. Here's your colleague, Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4352	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Vice-President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It is certain that adoption and adoption of the Budget is one of the most important issues of the Croatian Parliament and is a major test for each government, especially if this is the first budget that it proposes at the beginning of its term of office. From this proposal, it is now possible to evaluate and judge how life will take place in the country and what kind of government it is. It encourages the government's desire to launch a production and development cycle in the country, but also awareness and real assessment of the state of state finances and the country's debt. It is clear and particularly glad that this draft budget has not been done by magicians and no wonders are offered but responsible people are aware of the weight of the situation in which the country finds itself precisely setting priorities, and the most important thing is to stop the borrowing and sale of the country, and to launch and develop the economy. The assessment of the inherited situation is very important for this draft budget. We must not interfere with the idea that the former Government was obliged in October of last year to propose a real rebalancing of the consolidated budget to the Croatian Parliament. Instead, they simply transferred these costs to 2004 and therefore the government had a significantly reduced maneva space. That is why this draft budget is primarily realistic, and if we want a better economy that will fill the budget and bring greater standards to the citizens, most competitiveness is needed, and this government has yet to meet it at the coming period. In fact, it is also common knowledge in the world that all the left and social democratic governments and parties are wasteful. And in our case, they're easily in charge of questioning only the functioning of the state. If they had stayed for four years, and kept borrowing and spending like this, it would have been hard for the state to handle it. That's why it's good that a serious and responsible government has come to spend as much as it can, not as much as the minister wants. It would be good if our finance minister never again sold into debt-free government bonds, boasting in public that he had achieved a much better price, rather than the predecessors saying the team owed the country. The draft budget of this government, as well as all previous governments, will not be satisfied. What matters is that the budget is objectively and realistically projected, especially its income. As far as the cost is concerned. The government, but the party has fulfilled most of the pre-election promises. In short, this draft budget represents a slight trend in the consolidation of state finances, and indications of a shift in the development of the economy. However, when we read in the media a statement from the former finance minister, not that the minister will not be helped by the financial police, but that he cannot be helped by the financial army either. This statement best speaks of the inherited state of government finances. Therefore, aware of the circumstances in which the budget is brought, this is the art of possible. and if all is realized, we should all congratulate the Minister of Finance and this Government, and I would invite you all to give support, because it is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to finally start living and working and to allow this government to make one such real and good budget try to realise the well-being of all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4353	Thank you, fellow... It's time for the esteemed colleague Pankretic. I'm sorry, correcting my colleague Jurjevic's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4354	Well, I would correct the inaccuracy of my colleagues, I quote, he said, "it is common knowledge in the world that all left-wing government parties are wasteful." I think it is a good custom here to stay out of the way in the Croatian Parliament to say so in foreign states, governments, etc., and especially not when some of those countries where the left parties and governments are in power expect us to, we expect them to help us become a full member of the European Union, where we are not spoken in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4355	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4356	Article 209, so this is again the correcting of my opinion, so it is generally known that there are examples in the world of such and such, why you are now insisting.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4357	Unfortunately, it's not a correction of opinion, you generalized when you said they were generally known to be left parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4358	Well, that's a fact, actually.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4359	Well, that's why your colleague fixed you. It's my dear colleague Pankretic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4360	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government. Well, here I expect that certainly every moment Mr. Minister of Agriculture will come, because he's been here all along, of course, expecting discussions that will be about agriculture. So here I will start with something I unfortunately read here in the context of the proposal of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, under "the effect of the transferred commitments from 2003 on expenditure in 2004", and then one sentence on page 19 reads: "unpaid subsidies for agriculture amount to 800 million kuna". If this could be put into this part of the effect, I have to especially highlight it here, not only, I would say for the former ministers, the current ministers and future ministers of agriculture, but for all those who are in the government, because it is known that the calendar year in agriculture does not last as well as the financial year. and it is not possible to define the full obligations that are in a given budget period in agriculture, and in that part such a finding cannot stand. In particular, it cannot stand, since none of these obligations should have been paid in a certain way during 2003, and all documents clearly show that. I'd like someone to explain to me, if it's possible to pay off, for example, milk from 11 months or 12 months, or those last quarters that are generally transferred in such a part. We can open a discussion about the spring crop which is the main item in this section in which there has been a lot of discussion so far. But for objective reasons, I would say which I had personally warned about before this budget was passed, because one of the few in the former government was, which I said should still bring the budget precisely for agriculture. Of course there is a good parliamentary practice in which there have been a lot of words here that there is no budget when it is such a time, because others should also bring it to temporary funding extremely problematic for agriculture, it has now proved to be the right thing, because a 12th that is and is paid is not paid in the first three months of the year in agriculture, but it is months, and you can now check it out where it is most paid for agriculture, because we did it last year, because it should have been done this year, and so it will always have to be done. Therefore, I do not think that in that part there should be any obligation, because these are not obligations, that is something that had to be done unfortunately, because of the temporary financing and that is something that would make me support only the first part of the emergency budgeting, but not the budget in this form. I want to make it very clear here that we can look at certain things from a formal perspective, so we can always interpret that something is increasing and something is shrinking. But I don't know who will be able to convince me that 2 billion and some million kunas are larger than 2 billion and 300 million kunas. These are the items of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Equilibrists in that part are always possible so someone will say the main item of the subsidy, here this year will still grow, but it is definitely not true because we know what happened last year and what efforts have been made to find 400 million kunas paid for the elemental drought in the state budget. Of course, an extraordinary effort has been made at the Ministry of Agriculture at that moment and the effort has been made on that item, which is the largest and by almost 200 million kuna, the amount of support. If he were to add to this part then they would see that the finding of an increase as was said here from 16.4% of subsidies is not true. In objective terms, I think it's the extra 200 million. A total of 400 million can certainly be considered to be something paid in agriculture. It was paid to farmers, therefore, and I am convinced that the government of the former remained certainly involved in subsidies and, of course, they would, in view of the trend that can be checked in the budget, grow by 20 percent each year as usual. I think it is necessary in this section to point out that the reforms the government has gone through and the ministry has not been easy, but it should have entered them before. I don't think there's any discussion about this, but let me stress on this first part of why this is the biggest problem in terms of incentives and subsidies. Because it's clear to all of us that before us in 2004, it's a very difficult year, I would say very difficult because we know that we are falling under the protections of the WTO. I think we are aware of these days and the past that we are hearing about opening negotiations not only with the European Union but also certain removals which definitely have a negative impact on our overall agricultural production and, of course, on protection. It's the only way to do it through subsidies. Therefore, there is no way that if these subsidies do not really grow, we can protect ourselves in a certain way. Of course it is here in the agriculture budget that, of course, in the amendments themselves, I will be able to elaborate something more detailed and elaborate certain things, but here in principle, I will still say a few things about the reform itself. The reform has been made clear, laws and regulations have been passed. However, what has been controversial so far with regard to certain restrictions I would have made it very clear. In the last year of 2003, we did not use any restrictions on our agricultural producers so that those who had the production of 6 thousand liters of milk got all that paid. Of course, I can now talk about who would, but what is the fact that apparently not those who had only one hectare also had all the support in that part. And now there is certainly one problem that needs to be discussed. I can freely say that of course we stayed in this section so that certain restrictions wouldn't even happen. I think it is necessary to say that in those parts of support that are listed and especially the part relating to income support should be increased because the amount of 600 kuna is not enough, we need to increase it at least to make it more attractive, especially the amount relating to investment support in agriculture needs to be increased by 122 million kuna because it is evident that in the last few months it has proved extremely good. An additional effort should be made to remove that 250 thousand kuna limit to a larger amount, as we see it too is too small. Therefore, I think that, in this respect, there is certainly an opportunity to influence with these certain measures what is most important increases the competitiveness of the domestic agricultural producer because it is the only way that it can respond to everything that stands before it and that is one sharp competition. Therefore, we cannot say that some measures that are not defined in the budget itself will protect domestic agricultural production if we do not record this most directly in the budget. I believe that here are the amendments, but I also believe about the debate, although there are still a number of unremarkable things left to help help ensure that what I believe deserves a budget for the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is increased by at least 400 million kuna, because that is the amount that is necessary to implement the reforms that have begun. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4361	Minister Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4362	Thank you very much, Mr. President! Honorable MPs and MPs! Allow me a few words to say about the presentation of Mr. Bozidar Pankretić's distinguished representative. I can generally agree with a few things out. As a rule, I respect the needs and importance of the budget for the problem of agriculture. I also respect the importance of fostering and supporting subsidies in agriculture related to the process of adapting and joining the European Union, liberalising trade, and I believe that it is precisely what can be done to protect Croatian peasants because they practically come into one I would say the match of unequal partners where we know that the support and incentives in the European Union and the countries that will be members of the European Union from 1.5 are greater than they are in Croatia. But we also have to be aware of the moment and time we're in, and we had to do it one way and I would say a real and rational way to make this budget. I can also say a few words about this part of the commitments transferred on the basis of the 2003 incentive and I can say that there are both works and objective reasons. But it's also a fact that practically no year ago we haven't had this much incentive transfer based on the previous year. If we compare the last year then that transmission was somewhere around the circus of order about 400 million kunas. It's the official data I have and the information I have. Today, based on the incentive, our debt is somewhere around 800 million. From that in the structure of the debt is about 650 million kuna incentives based on cultures from the spring seed in 2003. I can't exactly say the exact exact amount today for a number of reasons. The first is that in 2003 it was the first year when a new mode of incentives and a new way of calculating incentives were applied. In other words, the reason is subjective, and this is seen as not being established in accordance with the Law on monetary incentives and aids which have not been established national quotas for certain cultures. And if we had fixed quotas we could precisely calculate the total amount of incentives. Today we do our best to pay off part of the incentive... Spring crops and we pay 50%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So somewhere around here. 650 million kunas are incentives based on spring cultures, from spring seeds. Then cca. 100 million kunas are not paid 30% based on livestock and 50 million kunas refer to payments of unpaid milk-based incentives. I know there's a way of calculating that milk pays off at 60 days. And that normally, every year, part of the incentive is transmitted. What to say about the budget itself? Realizing the situation, I can say that the budget for agriculture is primarily that I mean the items of encouragement and support that it is actually bigger for cca. 15%. Or an absolute sum of 250 million kuna. I also have some things to say to Mr Pankretić, too, that there was no increase in incentives and support at 20% during the last term. It was in the first two years. So from 99 to 2000, we can say that that increase was 20%. Also in 2001, compared to 2000, there was 20% but then there was a part of the decrease, not a decrease, but a decrease in the increase, so in 2003 compared to 2002, it was cca. 10% increase I to come to 2003 when that increase is only 2%. They're real indicators. As for the payment position of the elementary one, the damages from the elemental drought which was the orderly size of the cca. 400 million kuna. I can't accept and I don't think any of the producers can accept that amount being considered a subsidy or an incentive. It was something that resulted from a catastrophic drought and why the past government managed to acquire 400 million kuna and pay off on the basis of damage. I believe that in this year we will not be faced with such a drought or another form of elemental accident. But I'm also convinced if the elemental disaster reaches that extent that this government will also find the ability to help those who are most vulnerable. For this reason, I reiterate once again that this incentive has been increased by cca precisely on those most important items. 15%. If we look at it in a parchment, then I must stress that we have significantly increased the Rural Development, that we have significantly increased investment support that is now in the amount of 122 million kuna and that we have introduced and certain, I would say new support such as horizontal measures as food and... industry that we also have significant means of intervention on the market and that this is our further orientation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would also like to point out that I consider this budget realistic anddainful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4363	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4364	Mr. President of the Parliament, I want to correct this story at last of the 6.5 billion kuna transferred... For the reason that out of those 6.5 is 800 million for agriculture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We need to understand that these are not accurate data and that these are the reasons why we correct it. I would like to see that the expenditure on agriculture, forestry and the water economy totalled 2 billion 580 last year. This year, 2 billion 640 are planned. If 800 million were transferred this means that 3 billion 380 were spent last year and only a billion 840 would not be possible in the budget. So we don't want to slow down all six billion, but I want to say very clearly that all the time, we've been dealing with six billion today and only on this example is a huge 800 million, we see that this is an unsustainable item.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4365	Dear Representative Josip Pankretic, correcting the incorrect allegations, please. God, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4366	Thank you, Mr. President. Correction of an incorrect quote I think we should say very clearly here. It's impossible in all these calculations to determine these numbers. But the fact that 2 billion and 300 in 2003 is greater than two billion and 100 in 2004. I have to say, it's normal for a certain transmission to be bigger because it's a bigger incentive. And that's the part. Well, it's a normal thing, and new support is that they didn't get into full operation, and that's all normal. But there's no place. And I think that and for all future things it is I think that and for all future things is the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy in such things in the future. Because it doesn't take the same time, agricultural calendar year and budget year. And that's the thing to take care of. Not getting into these other things. But in agriculture it's a real fact, let's accept it as a real fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4367	Thank you very much. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4368	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Frankly speaking, I'm surprised by the reaction of former Deputy Prime Minister Linic. It's very strange how something needs to be written down. You said 530 million health care wasn't an obligation either. Well, it's an obligation that, by all international rules, you had to... If the commitment to these incentives had been recorded in the budget, it would have been shown as a commitment last year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, you cannot set things up when it suits you as it pleases you, and when it does not suit you as it is not. So you'll also start to claim that HABOR hasn't spent a billion and 200 million over the last three years, so probably instead of calling the workers of Gredel and Djura Djakovic tonight, you'd be using the money for railways, you know. But what's spent can't be denied. A billion and 200 million are past this House's decision, past the government budget records spent on reconstruction. Why didn't you hide it? Why didn't you show it in your business books? But tonight, you are calling on the workers of Djura Djakovic and Gredela to send a clear message. This government is sending a clear message that you spent money from the Croatian Railways in the past year and that is why this year you cannot invest in Croatian railways. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4369	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4370	I repeat the resuscitation from the documents that we received 2 billion 580 agriculture forestry and the water economy. If it's true that 800 million more has been spent, which means that in the last year, 3 billion and 300 were spent, and the plan for this year proposed by the ministry is 2 billion and 600, less 800, billions and 800. Comparing is 3 billion and 300 billion and 600, I guess it's clear to everyone that this bill doesn't hold. And that's my correction, and thank you for the accusation. I'll get a chance to answer about the railroads.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4371	Correction of the incorrect quote, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4372	Thank you very much. So I would ask, the correction refers to this part where it wants to compare these obligations in agriculture in a certain way with the obligations relating to other matters, so I would ask the Minister of Finance to do so, and my application initially referred to that in no case as regards agriculture does not belong to this part. Therefore, I would ask that it be not brought into that context again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4373	Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, Mr. Cobankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4374	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I know that it is in the agriculture of seasonal character, and here we are not talking about obligations based on autumn seed in 2003, but we are talking about commitments under the Law on Incentive Support should be paid in the current year. Now, was the law supposed to regulate something that wasn't foreseen in the budget? And when we talk about absolute amounts of the budget, I said that nominally it is something smaller, but that deficit was created on the basis of the payment of the elemental accident.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4375	Correction of the incorrect quote Mr Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4376	Thank you very much. Well, the correcting of an incorrect quote is in this part of what in law i.e. In a rule that I believe a fellow minister will surely find, it is said that the payment of the spring sowing is until 31 January 2004. Therefore, it is very clearly defined. And it can't be transmitted as a commitment. And I ask that we no longer confuse the Croatian public in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4377	Minister Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4378	I think the law is always above the rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4379	Now, colleagues and colleagues, there are 23.4 now just before two MPs gave up the debate. I'd like to appeal to the MPs if they could at least shorten the debate. That's what you want. Mine's just an appeal. We also have the State Budget Act. It's clear to everyone, it suits the will. Dear representative Zdenka Chuhil, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4380	Dear President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. When you really participate in this marathon for 13 hours where you're trying to prove how social, how advanced the budget is, when on one side and on the other, you start to question your own arguments, and so I'm really not going to judge what this budget is. First of all, I will remain on those problems that cause me to remain in this House, or I will remain on the subject of minorities. It has already been mentioned here today that 22 million have been allocated for minority programmes and their activities. 10% more and really, it's a good thing it's so much. Because it finally reached the level of how many minorities were given in the '99s. But I have to say, unfortunately, that doesn't mean more resources to certain associations. Because, in the meantime, minority laws have been passed by the foundation of which the obligations are somewhat larger. At the same time, 4 minorities were organized, and in this way more associations were created. I believe that when it comes to cultural amateurism, cultural manifestations can be reduced there. But when it comes to press, information, then it's very difficult to reduce costs, because unfortunately, the minorities are on the market and there are a lot of problems right there in that segment. I would like to say more about the education of minorities in the letter and language of minorities. The biggest problem is textbooks. Unfortunately, for textbooks each year, very little is allocated so that maybe 1/3 of the minorities each year manage to publish one textbook. It's only the mother tongue textbooks. Believe that the replacement is no different from the textbooks in question, where the teacher can be used and translated the textbook. But when it comes to languages, it makes it a big problem. If you add that the 10% supplement that teachers had in bilingual schools in earlier years is reduced, ask what it's like to work without textbooks and teachers themselves, but also students. I'm glad I can commend one position, which is a position that deserves attention from learning another foreign language. The position that carries 15 million and certainly investing in young people is the best investment. However, it is surprising to learn the second foreign language of one minority, which is allocated to 6 and a half million in this budget and with the justification that it is the language of the social environment. Is it not possible that other minority languages that are in official practice may also be the language of the social environment, or are they not equally applicable to the law, or are they perhaps trying to discriminatory the minorities within themselves? In the positions of the Ministry of Culture, a position that was not great disappeared. Each year, depending on the year, it was 300 to 500 thousand kuna, which helped rebuild monuments specific to the given minorities in the restoration of sacral objects. Unfortunately, a new item has appeared that amounts to a million kunas. But unfortunately, again only for one minority and for the publishing of one minority. Maybe if it was already done, maybe it would have been better if it hadn't been done so publicly? Let me also refer to the Ministry of Agriculture's budget. But I don't want to compare how much bigger or smaller he is than last year and whether he grew this year. Question, what are the effects of that? In 2001, the Agriculture Act was passed. Some say he's good, some say he's bad. But the fact remains that in Croatian agriculture we produce less and less, and what we produce, unfortunately, is impossible to place. For months now, the agony of extra cattle has been going on. Before that, we had the same extra pig. We ask ourselves, how is this even possible in a country that does not produce enough meat or meat, or that we do not meet the needs of even 80%? I have stated all of this in order to warn that the law provides for the Directorate for Market and Structural Support for Agriculture whose fundamental role should be to regulate and intervene in the market for agricultural products. And while last year's budget envisioned 120 million, then rebalanced for 15 million to less, this year unfortunately, only 60 million kuna are forecasted, and the agricultural product market is never worse at the moment. I must stress that there has been a lot of talk here today about incentives and support in agriculture, but believe me, it will be in vain if the farmer really can't place it. I wish we could start learning from the west, not just importing. I'm glad that's where the former minister and current minister are. Perhaps it is time to submit to this Parliament a green report, to jointly find out what we have done, what we have done well, what is bad, and that finally and incentives that are relatively high but certainly not enough in relation to the West, find exactly their justification through an increase in production, but also through the creation of competitive production. And finally, I would just like to point out that I am joining the amendment submitted by the National Minorities Club, which is really only about textbooks, because we are aware that the budget is not available, but I do not believe that this small item cannot be found that would certainly solve the major problems of minority education, and therefore I will certainly give my vote, depending on the adoption or failure of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4381	Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4382	Your Honor, I will be very brief. It's not obvious from the defense budget that there are any major changes than last year that I'm personally concerned about. The defenders expect improvement if nothing else, and it approaches their problems. As I am also a defender and a war commander, and I have been working on a job with defenders, I understand very well that this is not an easy job, which is why I expected additional funds to be allocated in the budget to professionals who are going to do the job or that people who work on these jobs are further educated for the job. I am also interested in what funds will finance the preparation for the sharing of shares to defenders and volunteers, because so far I have not been able to understand from any of your statements which institution will deal with this responsible work. In fact, if the preparations don't begin this year, I somehow doubt that there will be a division at all which I would personally be very sorry for, and I mean the vast majority of defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4383	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4384	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Here, let me say a few words, here we are just having a more serious debate now, I guess it's a good time for agriculture. Today, we've only just been through all day and we didn't think it was an important topic. I draw attention, here I am fortunate and honored as a peasant to participate but who knows which times in the debate in the budget and let this debate be understood by the gentlemen of the ruling structure that I am giving the Minister wind to the back and I assure him that not everything has been done to please him, and especially the peasants. I believe that this government is one responsible task and a heavy burden because if we just remember a little bit on 1.5 or 31.5, 1.6, if all the obligations that await us with a new set of entry into the European Union by reducing customs and a new attack on the Republic of Croatia, this time Croatian agriculture falls to our knees, but we crawl to the belly. I assure you that this is not a political and demagogue kind of pathetic thing, but this situation on the ground is serious and Mrs. Sučec-Thrakostanec I am now responding to, I have no idea that we're lurking tractors to get on the roads because we've always driven on the roads that weren't working, and with the one that was working the fields we've been working and we're thinking about moving on. We're not threatening the minister, we're asking him to understand the situation, and so is the government, that at this time when agriculture is moaning and I'm talking to the belly crawl, we need help. We need help in terms of being ourselves witnesses when we were acting part of the function and struggling to settle all the costs of how difficult the job is and what a great obligation it is to fulfill, not only the pre-election promise but also the legal assumptions that are being put under us, that it is an extremely difficult task. I assure you from my experience it's not enough for the budget to drop nominally to increase the incentives and that everything is fine. The redistribution of funds that are now 40 million less than they were in the past budget because still within the budget there was redistribution that some things were settled in one way or another. I just remind myself that 200 million were from that same ministry, and 200 from the Ministry of Finance, and now ultimately it's being shown as the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. It means that there was strength to encourage agriculture from other items, to solve acute problems, last year it was drought, this year I assure you of the market. Market interventions so they're not how big, they're justified. Believe me, there won't be any difference in opposition or position because you need to react or not. Now it is necessary to react not by any means to regulate the market, to help the farmer, the farmer, that I do not accidentally hurt someone now because they are not just farmers of agricultural products but are also goods, some want to be called, let them be called and so on, and therefore these resources are not sufficient. I assure you that, because you have nothing to pay for after the half-year of your commitment. We're real when we're planning a budget and we're having some discussions that was a magic number three, I assure you that underneath that by no means can we satisfy it. We can't please that because we are who we are. Structural adjustment in agriculture needs, it is inevitable. You know for yourself if in Europe we happen to walk away from God, I assure you, and you have experience if you do a bit of politics that have fallen governments. This government must be falling if it continues like this. There's no funds, it's going down. The village can't stand it. It can't. The impact on the country is too great, and we can't. So I assure you that now is the time, the Minister of Finance is here, the Deputy Prime Minister is here, the Minister of Agriculture. Anyway, whatever you do to help the Minister of Agriculture, let it be thought seriously. It's not our political only point. This is a real situation on the ground that is crying out for help where the state has to start actively dealing with politics. And I invite you to a political consensus. Because when there is no political consensus in this House, agriculture fails. Our imports are booming, they're growing. Here, Mr. Minister, without evil blood, your announcement scares us. We're scared. If we open ourselves up to the European Union and importing this whole thing, we can't get rid of it ourselves, we need help. In what way? From the state budget. We are actually afraid of what is happening in this beautiful Croatia from the land of GMOs that I am not now opening a further topic. So let's be realistic, let's gather forces, whether it's an amendment to the government, whether it's our amendment, whether it's an amendment to a group of parliamentary representatives so all one thing, let's help agriculture now is a serious moment. So I, and I can promise you that peasants can appreciate when they're being taken care of because you've probably signed that $14 million in the election victory because it's been shown to you as being given to a peasant and that the peasant has accepted all this together as one reality. That's why I'm appealing for real, and I think the real needs are much bigger, and in that sense, I wouldn't cause it, and I wouldn't... Is more now or then, and then it was little, now it's little, it should be more and should be given as much as possible if we want to save this situation. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] Let me look back at the local patriotically, because the pay phone is for turning away, I warn myself, and I've been warning you otherwise it's not good and we're some analysts when we're valid for an individual representative coming out of a certain environment and while he weighs 100, 200 million and more and some is a little valuable and he hasn't won on his 5, or 10, or 20 million, it's an injustice against the ground. Already the predecessor of mine spoke Mr. Mršić Mayor of Koprivnica, believe me as long as tax revenue goes from one field and at least in that part that should be returned to where the projects are prepared, where the building permits, where your own participations are given as appropriate to monitor it and that such projects are realised. I feel free to say that I'm a little representative and I'm not carrying those millions of other people. I was ashamed of this pay phone while some of my election databases were saying I was in a bag carrying money from this House because I'm politically strong, it's not good, it's being rejected to everyone's head because the field is crying out for the help of the state budget but in the real projects that are designed. I know everything can't be traced, but I can tell it publicly I didn't get into my purgatory project the first village in Croatia I guess that made a complete sewer, a complete plumbing and a gas pipeline and that I didn't get in, a building permit and 50% of the funds secured for the purifier or the program. I'm ashamed to say it to my base, but if it's not a fee, I have to say it in public, and by that I have a lot of right to say that they're just similar, and that some unsatisfactory or electoral winners didn't get it, unfortunately what my colleague Jarnjak says, that's the situation that is, but what I am. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4385	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Vladimir Kurecic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4386	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I know it's very late and I don't want to waste any time. And at least I'd like to correct Mr. Kolar who is extremely honest, however, some things have really gone beyond measure, so I have to correct the following. First, his statement and the claim that he tells me, so HSS and their part of the responsibility within the agricultural policy in the past term is not part of it but is full responsibility. So over the past four years, the full and absolute responsibility of the HSS for the state of agriculture that the note is today Mr. Kolar says is the village on its knees. But I'm sorry the village hasn't been on its knees since two months ago since Prime Minister Sanader and HDZ, but it's back I don't know how many years. And it's still not fair, the ministers haven't sat down in their chairs yet but people are called really and nobody has denied it, it's come out in the papers please nice, so we're not little children. No one has been denied, so let's be realistic, you know, and the big phrases we hear from year to year don't go anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4387	Thank you very much. Mr. Kolar's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4388	Mr. President, I suppose you'll excuse me, I'm in part agreeing with you that the agony of the village doesn't last as we are but before and I don't deny it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4389	Dear Representative Luka Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4390	Thank you very much, Mr. President, esteemed ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the HSS, apparently, received a set of debates in order and in its own way sees the problems that can arise from the budget proposed. It seems to me that in this debate on the budget that's being conducted tonight, there have been a number of concerns and differences in terms of its real power, and to what extent this budget can meet the human needs that depend on the state's activities. Whether it's a developmental or social aspect. There is no dispute that the legitimate government's right to propose to us those projects and those priorities that they think will gain the best effects. Certainly choose to encourage entrepreneurship to choose greater investment in capital infrastructure projects, choose incentives that will increase production, which will boost exports are all the rights that this government has but we as advocates have both the obligation and the right to submit these priorities to critics, suggest that its own solutions improve the text of the budget, even if we can also change its direction but certainly in order of prosperity and economic growth and improvement for all of us. I can agree with the right of the ruling set to propose social programmes that will improve the significant problem that is present in me and that we all see a demographic intelligence policy that should certainly be conducted today, tomorrow and always because it is indeed a priority that we all recognize. But when I look at the indicators shown in the evaluation of the proposals for this budget, I cannot help but notice that he is under-optimistic, that he is under-ambitious, which can certainly result in less-needed optimism and negative effects. If we follow the logic that this budget is not optimistic but to the extent that we talk about the rate of growth that is less than what we expected, then we can continue logically if it is not optimistic enough, I'm afraid there may be enough development. And if not sufficiently developed, I'm afraid it's not enough and it's not social enough because it's safe to be absolutely certain that social stability can only be achieved in a rich country, legally stable in which investments in development programmes multiply economic growth. Countries wishing to become members of the European Union and Croatia is one of them, in the process of approximation, must gradually meet the criteria of Mastricht, which are the deficit of the state budget up to 3%, gross domestic product and public debt of no more than 60% of gross domestic product with controlled inflation. From what I've said, it can be concluded that I doubt that these criteria will be respected without that optimistic version of stronger economic growth rates of gross domestic product, and, in our HSS, it should be higher and, above all, based on new employment, which, in my opinion, would significantly change relations in terms of production and consumption in favour of domestic production, which would, in turn, significantly change relations in the trade of goods by reducing the balance of payments deficit and thus significantly improve the overall economic situation in Croatia, and hopefully also trigger Croatia. But unfortunately for me, I don't think that's gonna happen. The total debt will continue to grow, imports will continue to grow faster than exports. The majority of the money will continue to go into personal consumption, not in production because there is no larger and increased isolation as Mr. Pecek said, who spoke on behalf of the HSS Capital Project Club, has no more investment to increase export support, there is no more investment to promote production and employment, especially for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. There is no greater separation for units of local administrations and self-government, entrepreneurship zones as well as allocations for support in agriculture. It can be concluded from the funds allocated to the Regional Development Fund that the problem is also not recognised as a priority in the resolution because the funds provided for that purpose would not then be reduced. Obviously, there is no clear knowledge of how different parts of Croatia have a range in the gross domestic product of between two and 15 thousand dollars per capita, and this means that for some there is still no hope for water that they do not have, for a gas they also do not have, for irrigation that will remain a wasteful desire for many. There is no hope for many who rightly expected a new school or sports hall, a health institution, or anything like that. I would say that this certain pessimism, which is sown by this Budget Proposal, and justified by the excessive debt of last year, will have really unspeakable consequences for future development and future time. True social conflicts and personal dissatisfaction are largely growing out of material shortages. The cause of dissatisfaction isn't money. It's his lack to say poverty. And I admit it's often hard to get what's necessary. The fact is that the economic structure is changing very slowly. Something that's certainly changing in this story the fastest is costs and debts, and that's usually just for more. Nevertheless, the orientation to the development of entrepreneurship based on the imagination that needs to be constantly developed and encouraged to prevail, in order to overcome the maximum that exists successfully in the countries of the world as much as you give to me, and I give it to you because there are many people who claim that business is the greatest art, and I add it may not be the greatest but it is probably the most important. It is clear that such an approach cannot be achieved without a better organised state administration, without extensive, I would say almost school preparation, which takes care of the market and the banking system which at this point is driven by speculative reasons and interests, rather than directed towards production and its promotion. The borrowing in us has often increased in favour of consumption and of all the reasons, for these reasons that many have spoken about, and also of those which I have indicated that should be eliminated and produced by a business climate that will fertilise necessarily limited financial resources and ensure conditions for greater change of goods and services and thus speed up growth and development. Therefore, at the very beginning of its presentation, the assessment of the lack of the necessary optimism of the duck of too much pessimism expressed in growth rates is not something that can convince us that this Prokrev is promising and that anything significant can be triggered, and at least Croatia, so I am afraid that this shift is not backwards and not forward, as I hope all of us would like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4391	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4392	Mr. President, I must correct one of the many false allegations presented by my colleague, Agent Roic. There is no need for him to write epitaphs to schools tonight and say there is no hope that there will be no schools in Croatia, that no new schools will be built. If he had read what it says in the budget a little bit better, he would have learned that only this year would the EUR 104 million be invested in 144 new schools. Just this year. So 144 new schools. Not to mention the other allegations, I'm going to talk about that later in my conversion that I'm going to have opportunities for.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4393	Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4394	... I'm going to the moment and time that we're in tonight, so I'm going to just sum up a few items and convert the percentages to those numbers that were already said tonight. [[The speaker is turned on later]] Our budget is, I'll be speaking 80 billion kuna. Many times six and a half billion kunas were said to have been spent, and they liked to spend what we were going to do. That's 8% of the bill. 18.3 billion kuna is debt repayment this year. That's 22% of the budget. Although we add a quarter of the budget that is practically already defined because the first quarter goes according to that Decision on temporary financing, it is 55% of the budget. So tonight and today we're discussing practically 45% of the annual budget. The rest is all defined. And indeed the change of government was a special moment for the state to be saved from one bankruptcy, for this budget to be consolidated. And that's why I won't tolerate any amendments. I know that mine in my election unit in my county will ask me why I didn't, but I will answer them that I am not respecting their wish because I respect the priorities we promised and which this government has promised, and these are defenders as the foundation of the Croatian state and these are child benefits, maternity benefits as the future of the Croatian state. So we want to run what's been dead for the past four years or we're trying to die, but every government has its own program. That is why I congratulate the Government of the Republic, the Croatian Government, for making the budget so quickly and this quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4395	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4396	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This Budget is said to have realised all pre-election promises and that the budget takes special care of births and Croatian defenders. Since it's late, I'll deal with it, I'd just like to pray, only with this segment of Croatian defenders and show and prove that maybe it's not so. That all pre-election promises have been realized. Let us remember that a new Law on the rights of Croatian defenders has been promised. These days, it's been said that only a working group has been formed. So we can expect a new law at the end of this year, next year, or I don't know when. And that the Budget takes care of Croatian defenders I will use basic mathematical operations by collecting, subtracting and then comparing these figures. Out of the total budget of the Ministry of the Family, defenders, intergenerational solidarity that some 5.6 billion kunas provide for the care of Croatian defenders, some 3 billion 394 million kunas. A million there, up or down, doesn't matter. True, if we compare it to last year's budget, the Croatian Ministry of Defence from the Homeland War, as it was then called the difference of those 2 billion 900, the difference is about 500 million. and on this basis, it could also be said that this budget is intended for the care of Croatian defenders indeed greater. However, these 500 million are the largest part of the funds previously made under the Ministry of Labour and Social Care for the pensions of active military personnel, and now it has been transferred to the new ministry. Therefore, this difference is 500 million. For me, I say, with these basic operations mathematically, this budget is almost identical to last year, and I don't remember you calling him back then to take care of Croatian defenders. and I am therefore satisfied, because I believe that most of these items are realistically planned and that they cannot be here if we are going to be objectively changing something important. Now, as realistic as it will be, you should see about the next major item in addition to the retirement payout item, which is about 2.5 billion and 75% of the total funds for Croatian defenders of waste precisely at the expense of pension insurance rights, is a permanent right item, these are rights based on disability and other rights resulting in some 650 million kunas, and something greater than last year, because of the higher number of supply users. If the number of users remains approximately at the existing level, the funds will then be sufficient. But there is one "but". Because of certain moves that are being drawn into the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity, and I will only mention two things, it is that the medical committees, that it has been given the order that all the solutions that have negatively assessed must be assessed positively, which I consider to be one of the new ones for the rule of law, because I believe that medical commissions should work according to the law, exclusively by law. and the second thing that has been mentioned is the rule on the assessment of physical damages that, based on these regulations, the medical commission and the evaluations, where the maltene PTSD disease automatically gives the disability status of 20% and the status of a Croatian military disabled. Which means, if we know that there are 5,000 new demands, 3,000 people coming back with the judgments of the Administrative Court, that this year the status, or the number of users, could increase by several thousand, which increases the resources in the position of the final rights. But I have no doubt that we will still discuss this in this House for some other subjects, so I wouldn't bother you now with these estimates, I hope I'm wrong, but everything says it's still going to be so. Most of the budget, so if we add up pension insurance rights, permanent rights, is directed towards the victims, like the families of the dead, towards Croatian wartime wartime peoples, that's how it has to be. By the way, according to all previous laws and those of the old and this new, probably also future, Croatian defender, the ordinary Croatian defender who did not get killed was a little pushed into another plan. and therefore I think that this budget in one item could have been a little more ambitious, which is the item of employment of Croatian defenders. In the last two years, a good step has been made, especially last year where 30 million kuna was secured, I think it's almost all realised, I think 27 million at 11 months, for later I don't have any data. So, for the first time, the number of unemployed Croatian defenders has fallen below 30,000 thanks to the measures of the Croatian Ministry of Defence to other government measures, you will probably say that there has been a removal of administrative work from the Employment Service, perhaps, but the figures are obvious, saying that about a thousand to 2,000 people have found work every year in these two years, or has been requalified and educated precisely thanks to these funds provided in the budget. So I believe that because of the experience and stalking of the administration that these funds could have been higher, because of those 27 thousand unemployed Croatian defenders who are headed to the employment office, two-thirds of them, and that is the figure to which we all need to imagine and try to find answers, two-thirds of them have less than medium professional equipment. and therefore, the measures for retraining and schooling will certainly get the effect, because my view is that for those people who are 30, 35 or 40 years old, the solution can't be retirement, but the solution needs to be found in one proactive, productive approach. And in the end, I would refer to the problem of associations, perhaps not because of the funds they've been provided with, because you're going to say that the former government has provided these 15 million kunas for four years, now it's doubt whether to stay on that 15 million kuna or possibly increase. It is a practice that existed in the Croatian Parliament, a good practice, which is that associations from the Homeland War are also called to the Croatian Parliament, and I am now, in particular, moving on to the essence of the Veterans Committee as their parent body. It was a practice of years ago. I have to say that I used to agree with them, we used to get into controversy on the Committee itself, but I think it was good for both of us at the Ministry and for them. However, the parliamentary majority decided that associations should no longer be called, and on my request that such important things as the budget be especially done, because I believe that it is one of the main topics that the associations should discuss or at least be familiar with, it is responsible that they will only consider what I think is not good. And therefore my appeal, and here I am to you, at the upcoming meetings of the Veterans Committee, for this or some other important topics, are present and associations come from the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4397	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague Željko Krapljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4398	I'm correcting the allegations of fellow MPs. It's not true that we're against, that associations aren't present, but we said we'd be given a week, two hours to see which associations and how much to call. That's not true, so you don't invite associations. They will be invited, but we have said that together they will meet the chairman of the board and the vice president sitting next to me, they will agree within a week, two, and that will be settled.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4399	Dear Representative Pero Mlinarić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4400	Mr. President, what Mr. Kraplean said is true. And Mr. Pancic called the associations of those who responded to them and we advocate that all associations have equal treatment with us and the associations will call. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4401	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4402	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4403	Thank you. The Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4404	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say something about several topics he has touched in his presentation, particularly about this invitation of the associations to talk. I will not say or repeat what MP Krapljan said because it is a matter of the board but I will say something that will probably be new to the Croatian public and for you and for your practice as former government. Before this budget was adopted and before the budget was sent to the Assembly, we invited all defence associations to discuss the budget and what the Government is proposing in this budget for defenders. It's new because I won't talk about you but we'll always do it. So, we called before, even before it came to the final session of the Government's draft budget, we called in defense associations, talked to them, and I can tell you with pleasure no matter how late the clock was that the associations all without exception supported this proposal of the budget relating to them, to the defence population. It is one fact that is extremely important and that the public needs to know. Another fact, you said here and mentioned yourself some decisions by the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity and, among other things, you touched the problems of the so-called. The translations you've introduced in practice and I'm going to say something because it's an extremely sensitive issue. No one in Croatia has the right to seek greater disability than they have and whoever did it in agreement with some medical committee to get 10% higher or 20% greater disability makes it wrong and needs an audit but when I gave an interview to a Croatian leading week last week then a journalist asked me if the truth was that you had abolished the audit process and that it was true that during the review process, 30% of the defenders had a false or wrong percentage of disability. So, with your policy earlier, you managed to achieve in public the impression that 30% of Croatian defenders of the disabled of the Homeland War have faked their percentage of disability. When I answered that journalist, and it was quoted in the interview that at the end of all the audits of the complete audit process from only 30% to 4%, it was found that it was the wrong disability, then she did not believe me because the public simply had the impression that you were able to create, that 30% of Croatian defenders were people who were ready and gave everything they had the most that they were faked or that they at least had a false degree of disability. At the end of all the processes, it turned out to be 3 to 5%. I don't know the exact number, but it's about there somewhere. And that's why we're going to end this translation process as you've had it in six degrees because it's been extremely unfair to these people and because it can't be based on individuals who are really and really have them, and it's for condemning and treating the entire defense population that way. Because I'm going to repeat what I said and the other day in another context after the whole disability control and translation process so-called. the process of translation of this VI. The degree that was the administrative dispute when the defender received it then did not receive confirmation that he had received the process that was led against him but was returning to the beginning. And that's something we could never understand. It doesn't matter which party is the SDP or HDZ in power. It's simply incorrect, unacceptable, inhuman, inhuman, whatever you want. And this power will make it right, this government will make it right. You can't harass someone to wait for one commission, then the other, and the third, and then the fourth, and then the fifth, and the sixth, he gets slow, and that sixth slow score is to get him back to the beginning. That's what you had, Mr. Pancic, as former minister of the ministry. And I'm not going to talk about the percentage of suicidality that grew in that time because we let it go, it's too hard stuff. But it's a fact and we're willing to document it publicly the way you've translated so-called. the disabled of the Homeland War or the audit and that you are after VI. The rate returned it and again had to pass six commissions and six instances. Of course, as a representative you have the right to say everything you think, I have no idea how to comment or get into anything, but this is true and the Croatian public should know even if it is midnight right now. And we won't agree to that, and we want to correct that injustice. We want those people who have been willing to give their lives for Croatia if today there are any bureaucrats that you have become, who knows who set up what kind of commission, harass, wait for hours, even days, come from one place or another and wait for them to experience this kind of humiliation and treatment. We'll put an end to that and we'll give the public a chance to illustrate exactly how you did it. We won't do it, we'll end it. Shall we cancel the audit? No, we won't cancel the review, but it'll be human, human, and it won't be that way that when a man goes through six degrees to get him back to the beginning, then he goes through all six commissions again, and he finally has to go to the beginning. Well, it's one circulus iciosus that makes a man crazy and he's had enough since the Homeland War. We know what they're suffering from. So let me get this straight. In this budget we correct I said it this morning in my opening speech. We're correcting injustices against defenders. The budget is bigger than it was and it's not exactly when you said it was the same as it was last year. It's bigger than you had, it's bigger for the part that we are in 1997, and it means that the former HDZ government, because I repeat once again when it comes to defenders, it doesn't matter who the government is, and what part of the 1997 debt we want to pay back that exists and who we're ready to admit and we're going to pay it back. Therefore, this government refers to defenders with much more understanding, with much more sensitivity, and we do not simply agree to such claims that are not correct, which are not based. There's more to this budget for defenders than last year. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4405	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivica Pančić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4406	Thank you. One, all defense organizations are invited. It seems that not all of them are because some have complained and have writtenly asked the Committee on Veterans to attend the session. But it's a matter of working on the Veterans Committee. It is said that I was able to create the impression that 30% of Croatian wartime wartime disabled people cut the percentage of disability. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, your Deputy Prime Minister here three weeks ago, she just said that percentage to me is 35%. I've never talked about that percentage before. It's already said by Madam Vice President. So you'll agree to the government with which information you'll go public. And there's a phonogram, and I'm ready to, and I want that phonogram to be shared with the Croatian public. As far as the six-degree translation process is concerned. We don't know where you got those six degrees. Translation, i.e. the process of recognition of rights, is the same as it was in the 1990s, there is no change there. And I'd like you to show me in which this budget is bigger than it was last year? I say it's almost identical. And if you can convince me of that I'm taking you all to lunch or dinner all the members of the government who are here right now. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Pancic.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4407	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4408	It is incorrect, it is incorrect that Mr. Prime Minister Sanader said that anyone in the former government has ever said that there are 30% of false military disableds, but it is true that for the first time it was publicly said by the HDZ representative at the County House by Mr. Marinko Liovic, president... The HDZ member said publicly and was a member of the HDZ when he said it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah, to check and you'll see. But otherwise, you're inclined to claim that we did something that we didn't do when it comes to barkers like you claimed that the legal provisions were imposed on defenders to rest their rights while they were in prison, etc., which was introduced by HDZ while he was in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4409	Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4410	It is inappropriate and incorrect to claim that due to some government or minister procedure, regardless of whether the government or the HDZ or SDP ministers has increased the incidence of defenders. Please stay away from difficult words, protect the dignity of Croatian defenders in this House, at this time of day, or night.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4411	Thank you very much. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4412	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I fully agree that the dignity of Croatian defenders should be respected by what the colleague says, but that should have been thought in the past four years. The status of Croatian defender is so demoted that the prime minister said the consequences are tragic but now the budget is being discussed so I will just say the information requested by Mr. Pancic. First of all, the defence budget item must be read, as Mr. Shucker said, by looking at the entire budget and not at one or two items. The whole budget is total. Now I'm going to tell you three items that have been increased for Croatian defenders. First of all, Croatian retired defenders are included in the pension and pension income item. That item is higher by 9% compared to last year. And there's part of the Croatian defenders. The second item that is larger is disability and family pensions, the item is larger by 600 million kuna and is an item for defenders. The third item can also be read in the account of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance is 77 million kuna and it refers to defenders who have been developed and lost their jobs. So what's actually a social problem because of the policy they've been facing for the past four years. When we add it all together then the budget for defenders is higher by 600 million + 77 million and + 140 million for pensions and pension incomes. That's significantly higher and it's 18.6% higher for defenders than it was last year. I think that when we talk about Croatian defenders, we should be exact because they deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4413	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4414	Mr. President, I'm correcting the inaccuracies of the Prime Minister. I find it hard to talk about defenders, and I have to talk about myself. And I'm going to say from my example, my dignity has been broken by nothing. I think we're constantly chasing a few concepts here, and we like all the defenders, or we look through one category, which is a category of Croatian military disabled. So I think and pray that we speak very precisely in the future, and try to protect a large number of people of the Homeland War, among whom here are a large number of my colleagues from ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4415	Correction of the alleged honourable representative Ivica Pancic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4416	Mr Hebrang mentioned items in the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, Pensions and I don't know if there's anything else. If we're going to list it that way, then we should mention the Ministry of Science because they're there, the Ministry of Education, etc. When I was talking about funds, I only thought about 2 billion 900 at the Ministry of Croatian Defence and before, for previous governments, the funds were also in other institutions. So, in any case, I don't suggest that as Mr. Schucker sat with Mr. Church and then they synchronised the data but we might have to sit down and see what items it was in before for the Croatian defenders in which it is today and see how much increase it is. But by 18%, it certainly isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4417	Dear Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4418	All together. Here, let me cut to the chase, though, I think we'll take a little shit about these big greetings in the future so we can get to the time saving, especially when we're getting fat on the third shift like this. There's been a lot said about the budget tonight, I've already said, the hour is quite late, so here I am, respecting the recommendation of the President of the Parliament, who has urged us to cut down the discussion a little bit. However, with a few sentences, we would refer to the Ministry of Health or some programs or rather to some items in the Ministry of Health and what we can read from them. Primary health care does not have enough resources, so I am afraid that it will not be possible to achieve some preventive programmes that the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, Ministry, Ministry of Health and the Croatian Medical Chamber signed last year to significantly reduce breast cancer, colon, hypertension and sugar disease. Furthermore, looking at the budget as a woman, it is hard to believe that only 280 thousand kuna are foreseen for the programme of preservation and improvement of women’s health. Of which, to preserve the improvement of reproductive health, women only 80,000 kuna, and for preventing and early detection of breast cancer, only 200,000 kuna. It is not necessary to mention how important these reviews are to preserve women’s health and to save lives. I think everyone knows the fact that breast cancer is constantly growing and that Croatia is therefore taking an infamous high place on a scale of countries where this severe disease is on the rise. I think it's very well known how long it's been waiting in hospitals for mammographic exams, and most women, or most women, can't afford private examinations. However, in order not to say that the opposition only criticises, then I will say that there is something that is good, and the good news is that it has a special item "Specializations in Family Medicine". I would like to point out that this specialization was introduced by the former government last year, and it is also a fact that the suspension of family medicine specialization has just been introduced by Minister Hebrang in the 1990s, so it is good to commend that he has seen his mistake and accepted the good achievements of the former coalition government. Emergency medical attention, funds are insufficient especially for the preparation of the tourist season. Only 100,000 kunas have been provided to improve the provision of emergency medical care, and I would like to point out how important this service is. Especially so can we who come from tourist areas and know what emergency medical care means otherwise, especially during the tourist season. The budget will not allow hospitals to operate positively so that from the promise of raise they pay doctors this year I'm afraid there's nothing. This best proves that the doctor’s strike was nevertheless purely politically inspired. As for investment in capital infrastructure, there has already been a lot of words about it, so I would never look back on it again. Something about the budget of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. It is evident that 1.2 billion kuna will be missing because this is the difference to the amount set by the former Administrative Council of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute as needed for 2004. The prescriptions are provided for 2 billion kunas, and in 2003 alone, 2.4 billion kunas are spent. The cost of medicines increases at a rate of 10% in the first month, and that actually means that it will take about 2.65 billion kuna, plus the costs that will result from the release of older people over 65 years of paying for participation. There's a question. Who's going to take that 700 to 800 million kuna, or is it going to be settled by budget rebalance? There is no doubt that protecting life is a public need, a measure of ethics for every society. Well, as I touched on the problems of saving and taking care of human lives in some way, I would touch a service that is very important on this plan, which is Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service. Unfortunately, in the budget of the Ministry of the Interior there is no room for vital public need, prevention and rescue of people in non-accessible areas outside cities and public roads, i.e. there is no room for Croatia's mountain rescue service. And the fact is that accidents in these areas are growing dramatically. With 0 kuna in the MIP budget, this public need is obviously waiting for either some disaster or disaster of broader proportions, so that it may begin to be thought differently and then given the necessary attention and attention. Because the fact is that without equipment, training and resources, the simple action of the Croatian Gosser's rescue service is difficult if not almost impossible. Already existing legal status is quite enough that there is a position in the MUP budget for this unquestionable and urgent public need. The MUP is the basis of the Internal Affairs Act of Article 24 of the Founder of Interventional Specialist Units of the Mountain Rescue Service. Furthermore, the Ministry of the Interior is also a signator with the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service on the basis of everything mentioned in the proposal for the former government budget, with a million and 790 thousand kuna for the service, and now the position has been deleted. We will try to correct this mistake with the amendment, and I note that these funds will certainly not be paid, because they are known to be members of the Mountain Rescue Service exclusively out of ethical motives to donate their time to save someone's life, but I think it is clear that without the necessary equipment then such an action of the maltene is difficult, or almost impossible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4419	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Proposer, Minister Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4420	Honored Madam Vice President, honored others. Although you're a little sleepy already, but I can't say what's true after this speech by the House of Representatives. First of all, the Croatian Health Insurance Office had 13 billion 200 last year, and this year 14 billion and 4 million kuna, which is an increase of 6%. In these 6%, we also included negotiations with the Doctor's Union and an increase in the salaries of doctors. So it's not true that it's any kind of political strike because we haven't had any contact with that Doctor's Union all the time, nor have we spoken a single word for the entire time of the strike. In fact, we had contacts so the strike wouldn't be politicized. That's why we didn't go on strike or contact the organizers. But it is a shame of the last government that it did not enter into collective negotiations with the Medical Union, as well as with most health unions, but instead of collective agreements, it determined their wages by government regulations. It's something of course that has nothing to do with democracy, and that's why we promised in our pre-election programme of negotiations, and now we've started collective negotiations with the unions in health and social care and professional negotiations with the Doctor's Union, and I think it's a democratic practice that we're going to hold as long as we're where we are. What should be said is that in this budget where HZZO gets seemingly only 6% more than last year, actually HZZO gets much, much more. Because the finance ministry is paying $532 million in debt since last year spent on cargo this year. So when we add that up then HZZO has exactly 9% higher, because then it's 14 billion 538 million kuna. That's 9% more than last year. No other item in the budget this big has that increase. Finally, it should be said that this year we are paying HZZO's debt from last year of 2 and a half billion kuna. So when we add that up, then health care got 15% more than last year. So we pay 3 billion dues from last year and plus we increase it by 6% this year's budget. I don't think such an increase in health care has been given since the Croatian state. And we need to answer now as far as preventive programs are concerned. If you have read primary health care that includes preventive programs, it has increased by 16.57%. Honored Madam MPs, preventive programs, honored Madam MPs, I answer to you. Prevention programmes in primary health care increased by 16.57%, from 2 billion 335 to 2 billion 723. There are preventive programs. And as for breast cancer that cuts our wife, we have brought the first national programme of breast cancer prevention where every county in decentralised means will buy a mobile mammogram, and we radiologists will volunteer to read these mammograms and every year creening mammography will be covered by 500 thousand critical women, so those we consider highly risky and that is included in our program that we will publish immediately after this budget is adopted if it is adopted. So I think that the real preventive programmes are just starting with this budget, and I don't consider it a financial burden, but I think it's something other than saving lives that will lead to a reduction in the next years. And I still have to replicate a little bit. Specialization of general medicine, of course, that we've never abolished. We have kept the general medicine special at a level of three years, and now it is down to a ridiculous eight-month period which is not even in line with the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4421	Thank you very much, Vice President. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. A colleague of Jagoda Martic, and then here's some information. There are only 14 more registered for this agenda point, and behind that, we're still waiting for the state budget to be carried out, so we can get some coffee in the morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4422	It's just a replica about HZZO.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4423	I'm sorry you didn't lift the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4424	I'm sorry, the correction of the false false assumption, it's obviously a late hour. As for HZZO, I think the debt that was made last year is then to be transferred to this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4425	Thank you very much. We mostly know how to answer the word. Let's move on with the debate. Dear colleague Dorothy Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4426	Dear Vice President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to try to be as brief and taxing as I've seen in this budget, and before that, I'd like to say that I've really gotten the impression during this debate that it is and I have to say that I'm impressed by the defense of such a perfect budget that has really proved to be no mistake under quotes. The first thing I saw in this budget was that there was an even greater centralisation of money and powers and that money was shared by party membership, colour. Now I'm going to give you examples of that. First, how is it possible for all schools in the Republic of Croatia to promote sports in school clubs to give 8 million and as much money to the Olympic Centre in Belarus. I'm not saying you shouldn't give the Olympic Center, but I think 8 million for all schools in Croatia is too little. Secondly, who can convince me that the state budget of the Republic of Croatia needs to give a million kuna to prevent the misbehaving of fans, and on the other hand, to rebuild and build sports facilities only 1.5 million kuna. That just confirms my thesis. This budget also does not know all the signed agreements so far. An example. The health ministry has committed an agreement with the Primorje-Gorski County and the city of Rijeka to co-finance medical, laboratory and non-medical equipment with 60%, which means 12 million kuna, and the budget envisions only 2.6 million kuna. The greatest interest in this budget is certainly one item concerning our Adriatic Sea. In our budget, there are no items predicting the payment of debt, nor are there any planned funds for 2004, and it concerns that the state is the owner of ships that have sunk in the Adriatic Sea and which are ecological bombs. We've known for the past two years that two incidents have occurred. One near Rapca, a ship called Stella Polara, where 1.1 million kuna was spent financed by the Istrian County. There is even a court ruling on the matter, and this item is not provided for in the budget. It means that even court orders don't mean anything to this budget. The same thing happened last year in the Primorje-Gorski County ship Elhavi Star, the truth figure is smaller, but it's only the beginning because tanks are full of oil and it's going to take a lot of money to get rid of. I think the state owns those ships, there are those ships that have been submerged since the Austro-Hungarian war, World War II, and I think we should predict an item in the budget, if anything else to do with a project to extract those ships in the Adriatic Sea. We all swear on the protection of the Adriatic, tourism, sustainable development, sustainable economy, sustainable tourism, but I really don't see it through the budget. As for those of my thesis at the beginning to see a very large centralisation it may later be seen even more in the implementation of the budget where indeed the local self-government unit's powers to raise loans if they don't get under quotes, amen from the state will stop all projects on the financing of plumbing, sewers, other projects that units of local self-government lead. We know that only 6-8% of the funds remain for the units, and if we seek the European Union then we know that their regions have up to 50% of the fiscal resources left in their regions, that I am not talking about those who have special status where they can pass laws. If we really want to enter the European Union 2007/2008. Then we must indeed not only declare it but also take real care to decentralise resources and powers. And another perhaps my question is, how did the government increase its financial resources for its part in the budget when we know that in the constitution of the government and the change of ministries, the reductions in the number of ministries were said to be going towards a more efficient administration and that this way it wanted to be saved, and by the fact that the higher budget on the government's account compared to last year, I don't think that this thesis stands anymore. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4427	Thank you very much, colleague. Here's a really strong concentration. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First came from a colleague, Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4428	Well, Madam Vice President, I can't accept it, and I find it very incorrect what Mrs. Dorotea said the money was divided by party belongings, and then she said that in relation to another item, it was more likely to contain violence with fans. Turns out, violent HDZ fans, and they're really not nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4429	Thank you very much. The next correction to the incorrect quote of counterpart Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4430	I would have corrected my colleague when she said the Department of Health didn't respect the signed contracts on KBC Rijeka. It doesn't stand exactly what's scheduled for this year is exactly respecting these contracts because it's a credit line that lasts next year and every year next 13 million and 800 and this year it can only be as much as it covers these loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4431	Thank you very much. Let's move on, Comrade Kajo Bucan, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4432	Dear Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. To make a new formation of the Government to establish the same, to make a positive and commendable step towards the international community, to record the overall social and economic situation, and at this record time today is here 68 days from the takeover of power, to make a proposal and deliver it to the benches of the state budget you will agree can only be valuable, capable but I want to point out one complex government. Facing the fact that the previous budget is breached while making both development and socially sensitive budget is an extremely difficult task. In my presentation, I would like to refer to the items of the budget relating to the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Since the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees health care for all its citizens, we have thus defined ourselves as a social rather than a market health system aware of the fact that such a health system has many financial cracks. However, respect for this system financed from the state budget guarantees its success, i.e. to know what and who finances the costs of treatment and which "piece of cakes" are envisaged for investments, while strictly respecting the items of the budget, as well as Article 8. The health care law is basic farts for its implementation. Implementation that needs to stabilise the health care system for the next 2 to 3 years as long as possible because according to the World Health Organization, the health system will never be fully stable while the annual increase in health prices is about 10% and the increase in gross social product from 3 to 5%. The proposal for a state budget for the Ministry of Health has been heard by more than 716 million kuna last year, with the fact that, at the point of the Ministry of Finance, the recovery of the debt of wholesalerry and HZZO debt was transferred all together somewhere around 3 billion kuna. I believe, Mr. Minister, that supervision of both colleagues and colleagues in the spending of money and rationalization in the supply of equipment will mean more than that and in favour of the quality of our patients' treatment and that it will not be possible for the same apparatus that costs about $1 million in Europe to be obtained by three Zagreb hospitals at 15, 8 and 6 million kuna prices. Who can justify spending our citizens' 206,000 dollars on the education of emergency medicine in Australia for 20 people and spend less than 2 months studying how this works on the wide range of Australia helicopters. It's very appropriate for our longitudes. The same applies to medicines that are growing at 10% per year according to the projections in Europe and only in the last year from 2.1 billion kuna to 2.9 billion kuna, which is 38%. Of course, no one should be left without the necessary medicine, or the patients, or the pharmacy, or the hospital. I am saying this because according to sources again and World Health Organization, the increase in drug consumption has no impact on the reduction of the morbidity and mortality curve and what to say about the spending of the previous budget when in the last two years the contracts on the work of advisory and intellectual services and overtime spent around $12 million, no comment, no justification, but only to welcome the rationalisation and reduction of such funds in the proposal for a state budget for 2004. I also welcome the fact of the item in the budget for the Clinical Hospital in Split, and I believe that after this, speculation about the ban on the construction of a future maternity home will stop, because only for this year, 3 and a half million kunas are allocated for maternity care as well as 3 and a half million kunas for the restoration of the hospital kitchen, which is not the complete amount but enough for this year until the project documentation is corrected and comply with the positive legal regulations. It is also noteworthy that this year, in county hospitals, what counterpart Stazic was saying is not true but is being decentralised from 400m kuna funds. I believe that we will witness these two years of renewal as well as those equipment is over 8 years old, the introduction of preventive health checks on all insurance companies, preventive mammography for vulnerable groups of women, protection of patients' rights, and all at the expense of reducing the morbidity and mortality of life expectancy and raising all available basic health standards. For the sake of this and for what I have heard from colleagues about other divisions and categories, I join everyone who will support the adoption of this budget burdened with the weights of waste and the transfer of enormous borrowing of predecessors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4433	Thank you, dear colleague Mršić, for which board did you choose because you raised all three?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4434	Because you're the one who's presidening for yellow.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4435	Right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4436	I would like to say that as far as education costs are concerned in Australia and not only that, but consultants who have advised to go to Australia for that education would do well to ask the 99th Minister of Health who signed a contract with the World Bank and who signed a contract with consultants... help health care officers who advised them to go to that education, therefore, if you are looking for an answer to the question who might give an answer to this, you may be given by the Minister of HDZ, from the 99th Monostratical Government, who signed the Treaty with the World Bank on the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4437	Thank you very much. I think we're going to get the right answer right now, so I'm asking my colleagues not to pollemize from the bench. On behalf of the motionary Deputy Prime Minister Hebrang, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4438	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, I thank Mr. Representative for this question because it is an opportunity for another great mystery to finally be clarified about this loan. A loan with the World Bank is a second loan, it was signed by the 1999 HDZ government but did not sign any fees, no items of expenditure or where to go to education, but signed a framework project that envisions investment in equipment and premises and also reorganisation of the system. Not a single item has been signed, no fee has been signed, and the data you have heard has been signed and prescribed, carried out and paid off by those who have implemented the project, and the implementation of the project began in 2000. Therefore, to compare this project, take the first project the World Bank has given for healthcare and implemented by the HDZ Government. In this project, no one got a single drop of fee. No one's got any intellectual service lips. We made our intellectual services available to our country of Croatia as part of our ordinary salary. In the first project, 100% of the funds went into investment and equipment. In this current project, 50% of the assets go into investment, and unfortunately 50% of the intellectual services I got on the 3 disks worth $7 and a half million, I sell them to you for a dollar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4439	Thank you very much. Looks like we can move on with the debate. My colleague Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4440	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I agree with all those who pointed out today that the budget for one state is the most important document. From it we read our own future not only in the year it applies, because what happens in that year is reflected in the years to come, and that is why I have the right to be least concerned about it. I am concerned because I am obliged to look at the budget from the aspect of the region, i.e. the electoral unit whose citizens chose me as their representative, and I was chosen by the citizens of Brod-Posaviska, Vukovar-Srijemska and Požeko-Slavonska County or by Slavonia. My Slavons today have no reason to be optimistic, they have no reason to be satisfied, and for one single reason, because the 2004 budget is not only not developmental, it is anti-slavonian, and all Slavons should see it regardless of which political party they belong. Here's why it's like that. Slavonia is the most underdeveloped region, as well as the percentage of unemployed, the average salary paid, and a number of other statistics that say that once the richest region turned into the poorest. Of course we can't ask for reasons just for the last 13 years. The reason is in relation to which the state has to the region since 1918. All this time, Slavonia was being pulled out, and it was only being invested for as long as it took to keep the dying alive. Over the past four years, the dying picture has not been cured, but his condition for the crumb has begun to improve. The new Budget is returning it to the path of dying. So over the decades, insufficient investment hit Slavonia's war, and then during the war privatisations from which other closed factories and crowded employment institutions remained. What we have left is our pride, but it does not live on agricultural land, which experts assure us is the cleanest and most fertile land in Europe. So that's our natural potential to start with. For Slavonia, therefore, what is happening in the Ministry of Agriculture’s budget is of vital importance. After 3 years of growth from the initial 750 million kuna in 1999 to 2 billion and 300 million kuna in 2003. Funds intended to invest in agriculture are reduced. Of course, the consequences of this are, above all, Slavonians and not only in the current year but also in the long term, because Croatia wants to join the European Union, but farmers and agriculture do not properly prepare for entry. The cost of the wrong approach is paid by the peasant or by Slavonia. Mr. Minister, it's not funny. This approach will not increase primary agricultural production, and we will continue to import food into Croatia and that genetically modified besides its unused natural potential. Slavonia is not neglected only through the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, this Budget of the Republic of Croatia has not been developed, and this country, especially Slavonia, needs an increase in production because it leads to new employment, thereby increasing the personal standard but also collectively because income taxes and obtaining full budgets of municipalities, cities, counties and states from which programmes are financed to meet the general needs. In view of the situation of the Ministry of Agriculture's budget, it is evident that there will be no increase in primary agricultural production but there will be no increase in industrial production because the industry in Slavonia is almost gone because it has failed in the privatisation process. For life, Slavonia needs re-industriousism, which requires state resources. Slavonia needs a strong food industry to process what was produced in the primary agricultural production. That way, the peasant has a safe market. Today, the unemployed would have a job, and the only final product would bring a battery that remains in Slavonia. It is a vision that unfortunately this country's relationship with the region will not be realised despite the euphoric promises "We will launch Croatia". Furthermore, it is not clear to me that the new government wants to keep what has been preceded, with great efforts it has managed to do. Here's an example. Djuro Djakovic employed 17 and a half thousand workers before 1990. Then there is a decline until the number of workers reached a figure of just over two thousand. Huge industrial complexes have been released and out of work. The previous government, through the development of rail transport, has managed to partially employ Đura Djakovic's empty facilities until then, and only last year has seen the first increase in employees since 1990. Unfortunately, the new government slows down the development of railways, and this means a new stagnation of holding that was, in its own time, the bearer of development not only of Brod-Posavina County. With the disappearance of the large and medium entrepreneurship, Slavonians had suffered a severe pain, yet they turned to craftsmanship and just when Slavonia seemed to start breathing the current Budget reduces the resources for craftsmanship. In such a policy to whom and what should Slavonia turn? It's no one's business because it's on the verge of thinking today's government. Perhaps it is a specific thanks because she naively believed that it was included in the one “Let’s Start Croatia”. I just want to know what the ones who promised them right now are going to tell them. Further evidence of the neglect of Slavonia is also evident through funds intended for the Croatian Regional Development Fund. The Fund was founded precisely to bring regional development into line with it. That Fund's assets have been cut. No funds, no development. This is only part of the reasons why no representative of Slavonac should support this budget. I say every Salvonac no matter what political party he belongs to, and I'm sure he will. We are further told that this budget is social. He's not even a righteous socialist. It is absolutely certain that the budget in its revenue section can only be as much as the permits of funding sources. It is important that what is being distributed fairly in the Budget, and that is not the case here. For an illustration which means justice in one society, I quote Antun Radic in 1904: “People cannot live with one another, let alone progress without justice.” Which is right, and what is wrong is every man in his soul, which is from God. Only God is righteous, and a man can be just if he is hearty. A man without God and soul can't be soulless, so he can't be righteous. If he's here, he's got a God and a soul that'll judge my Slavons, and I'm just saying no.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4441	Thank you very much. Please be quiet in the assembly. I'm asking Minister Cobankovic on behalf of the motionary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4442	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Representatives and Madam Representatives. Allow me a few words. I thank Mrs. Lalic for her concern for Slavonia. But I followed the Assembly sessions. I didn't notice in the last session that you were just so emotionally beating up and talking about Slavonia's problem. I also come from the county that is really lagging 2/3 behind the average of the Republic of Croatia. I come from Vukovar-Srijem County and I know this issue very well. I agree there's a lot to be done in Slavonia, and I'm sure we will. I won't elaborate anymore. We can show which budget is larger, which is smaller. But there are numbers, there are indicators, and I won't talk about it anymore. You mention certain things and say about the crumb you fixed the situation in Slavonia. Unfortunately, the people in Slavonia didn't recognize it. We were in the same constituency unit and you know the results they were. Let me say a little bit about the Regional Development Fund that someone and the MPs thought before the SDP called. And let me now say -- in last year for Vukovar-Srijem County, which met the criteria of the Regional Development Fund, it seems to me that there are 9 or 8 for everyone who met the conditions except that it wasn't an island. And you know how much money came from the Regional Development Fund in Vukovar-Srijem County? 5.3 million kuna. More than double resources have come to much more developed counties, and that part of the crumb you moved. And therefore, please, allow us to whom people in Slavonia trusted to take care and care of Slavonia and ultimately we live there, our families are there and we will return unlike many others who represented Slavonia from other parts. I will be grateful to you that you continue to take care and care of Slavonia about the V election unit and to make your contribution to the development of Slavonia. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4443	Thank you very much, Minister. We have a correction to an incorrect quote. My colleague Ljubica Lalić, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4444	I thank Mr. Minister for your emotional words, but I must correct you because I have been noticed in this House because I have always spoken emotionally of Slavonia. And take your résumé, and you'll see that I live in Slavonia, and I didn't leave. Maybe we were wrong somewhere in the previous government and we lost that in the election? Maybe that's what's going to happen to you, too? And we admit our mistake. However, you say, who got the trust. It was not for me that the oaks of Slavonian voted, but for the people who voted, and you should respect both the will and those people who voted for other parties that are different from your political options.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4445	I'm not sure emotions can be corrected, but this correction of an incorrect quote can be very in the thin line. Well, good. At this hour, it seems we must be tolerated. I suggest we move on. There are only 11 more reported for this point. Comrade Frano Matušić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4446	Dear Vice President, here, because it's early, it's just begun a new day let me just take part in a somewhat shorter discussion than I've ever been before. But let me begin my debate once again, pointing to the circumstances in which this budget is created. First of all, I mean the circumstances, the fact that six and a half billion kunas were inherited, the obligations that today were repeatedly spoken of. But I think it's necessary once again to point out that particular fact. In fact, believe me, a colleague of Linic who is trying to escape those six and a half billion kunas as a man from his shadow. It is impossible to escape from them, and none more fortunate than us that we do not have those obligations that you have done without the approval of the Croatian Parliament. So, without the approval of the Croatian Parliament, you signed the contracts, or you spent that money. That six and a half billion kuna needs to be covered, they need to be paid off. And no one happier would be than us if we didn't have to give those six and a half billion kunas for something that you spent in such a way because we'd be sure, I tried to add up all of your programs that you gave through the amendments, so all the increases you've been making through these amendments are more than twice as much as six and a half billion kuna. And we'd be happy today because we'd do all that and more than that for the six and a half billion kuna. Nevertheless, this budget is both developmental and social, and yet we have achieved it, and we are starting to make pre-election promises. Unlike Mr. Pancic, I just have to point out, we haven't made all the pre-election promises through this budget. We have begun to deliver on the promises we have made that we will achieve in the four-year term of colleague Pancic. That we accidentally made that big leap because it's going to be a really big jump and I doubt that you, with no greater consequences, could beat that efficiency. So I ask you to really limit yourself in your actions to what is real, and what is realistic really is in this budget. We would be most fortunate if those six-and-a-half billion commitments I say without the approval of this House were made if they weren't in this year's budget. But unfortunately, here we are. But let me now also ask something as an X-team representative for an understanding of two issues that seem extremely important to me, and it's not just about our Xth constituency. One of those things is the University of Dubrovnik. In fact, the University of Dubrovnik has only recently recovered and the funds provided in this budget essentially cover the merger of the two universities that are the foundation of this University. And I ask you to respect the requirements that come from the University to see if there is a possibility that during the year you will respond to the requests of the University itself regarding the insurance of funds for the space where the University will be located, for certain needs that can be realized. So here's to thinking about what needs it will be possible to realise this year and possibly see the possibility of these funds being provided through the ministry's budget in a certain way. Another problem that plagues me not only the Xth electoral unit, but all cities that have protected monuments of culture and particularly protected historical cores of coastal cities, and it's about the fact that unfortunately those parts of these cities are being rapidly sold, and they're being sold because it's obviously become very attractive to buy properties in that area, so I'm going to give an example of the city I come from, from Dubrovnik, so I just have to say for an illustration that the price of the housing square has reached 5,000 euros. You heard right, for 5,000 euros, a square of living space is sold in the historic core of the city of Dubrovnik. This fact is fragrant but shows enough about the interest of foreign investors, foreign citizens for our monumental heritage. I think it would be good for the government to consider the good measures that could be taken to protect the monumental heritage because in this way our monumental heritage in a certain way will be alienated, perhaps even the purpose of these spaces will be questionable, it is already questionable because it is very difficult for the new owner of space to have a certain type of activity in a particular space. Such experiences are already in Dubrovnik, and it is really very difficult to influence this owner who has his own property in the monumental core to bring the purpose of space into line with seeing how a certain local self-government sees how it should be managed there. To make things worse for business spaces, prices are at least twice the size of a business square, the price of business facilities exceeds 10 thousand euros per square. I would ask that you really take this problem into account in the Government because soon we will no longer be the owners of the historical cores of Dubrovnik and Trogir, and Split, etc., Korčula of course. We had a case on Korčula just to remind you of where Mark Paul's house was that we used to admire. Here, almost, in the end there was an intervention I think the county is although it is and it is questionable whether it will come true, I don't know about the funds but I hope it will help the city of Korculi. The house of Mark Paul is almost sold to a foreign citizen who thinks it is likely to have a residence in summer, he will probably come only during summer and thus these cities are extinct. Dubrovnik precisely because of the weekenders we like to see down and over the winter and during the summer but unfortunately the historical cores of these cities are extinct and they are actually this nucleus of development and economy and everything that goes along with it. Therefore, it is necessary to think carefully about what measures and, above all, financially because the state under current law, state, county and local self-government of the city have the option of buying first, so it would be good to try to find the budget, try to find the means to find out whether it is 50-100 million kuna I can now hardly say but to see what these funds are, whether it is possible to find them at all this year or to plan them for the next year, for the next periods but to find a solution to this problem because it is already becoming a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4447	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Comrade Pancic, you haven't given up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4448	An esteemed colleague called my name and then asked me to answer and correct the incorrect allegations. He says we said we'd keep our promises in a four-year period. It's an important shift of praise worthy of reality. Let me remind you, it's incorrect what you said. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders is over, it's in the drawer, we made it with associations and in the first session of the Parliament we'll let it into the procedure. This is the 3rd session. It turned out that a commission had just been formed and that only until the year would that law be fulfilled if God were to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4449	Comrade Pancic, I think you're correcting the election program now, so you're violating the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4450	Here, I apologize for having to remind the HDZ promise as an SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4451	No, no, you broke the Rules of Procedure, buddy. It's a warning. Let's move on with the debate. She's a colleague of Pearl Perman's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4452	Good morning, everyone! I will begin my debate with an observation we have already heard several times in today's debate, both on committees and in discussions of committees and clubs and individual debates, which refers to the non-transparency of certain items, especially to the absence of parallel parameters with the 2003 budget, and thus in fact by making it impossible to keep track of the budget normally. I understand that the reorganisation of the state administration has made this presentation a little complicated, but if the clubs and representatives could find a way to make comparisons, the government could, and I therefore conclude that this was done on purpose to cover up the matter, or the fact that the budget is actually holding back Croatia. First of all, I would say a few words about sports, given the fact that it is marginalised everywhere when it comes to financing, although its role in the affirmation of the state in the international community is well known and also in the education process of young people, as well as in the prevention of addiction and crime among young people. Yesterday, on the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, it was said of the item for sport, so it was pleased to say that sport envisions slightly less than 54 million kuna, which is about a million and 700 thousand more than last year. But if we add basic and secondary school projects with school halls to that, we will see that from around 130 million kuna investments fell to only 75 million, which is more than 40% less than last year. If we add to this the fact that only about 1 promil has been allocated for sport in the overall budget mass, you have heard 1 promil clearly that we cannot be satisfied and that it is one of the smallest drawbacks for sport in general in relation to Europe in which we all want to and beyond that. That is why I asked for an increase in sport for 13 million kunas, since this is also the Olympic year and also the year of a whole series of European and world championships in neo-Olympic sports. I would also like to look further at several capital projects in the Primorje-Gorski County, or the city of Rijeka, and I also have a few questions about them. The question is, my first question concerns the Ministry of Health. Since the proposal for a state budget for this year is not clear that the planned funds for the implementation of the project are to build a new university hospital in the river KBC Rijeka, please answer me if it is possible to implement this for the Primorje-Gorski County and the wider significant project and when, or when, or if not, go into the realization of this project, why not and I would like to get an explanation. I'm sorry that Minister Hebrang is out at the moment. Furthermore, I have a question about the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Water Economy. The level of investment under the Gorski Kotar regional water line project is 7 million kuna. In the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004, a million and a half kuna in item K568133 was planned, so I would like to know whether the rest of the investment was planned as part of the Croatian Waters financial plan for this year and if I do not ask that the rest of the funds be organised, secure either in the state budget or in the financial plan of the Croatian Waters. Unfortunately, Minister Cobankovic is out as well. Furthermore, I have a question, issues relating to the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development. Since the proposal for a state budget for this year is not visible, I would like to know if it is envisaged within the framework of the island development programme, in paragraph 1509 of the water supply project of the island of Krk, i.e. bringing water from the mainland? And if it isn't, I'd like to sort of put the project in the budget for this year. Furthermore, since it is not transparently demonstrated, I would like to know whether the drain projects in the Liburnian area, i.e. in Opatija, Lovran and Matulji, on the island of Susk, and Grobinština in the hinterland of Rijeka, are directly related to the municipalities of Chaveli and Jelenje, planned in the budget for this year? Most of these projects have been launched and funded from several sources including the state budget, and it is necessary to provide funding for their closure in the budget for this year. And my last question, in the draft budget for this year, is intended to encourage regular maritime and high-speed passenger lines of 290 million kuna. I don't know if that's the amount of planned and the introduction of another regular high-speed line in the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County area? And if not, I'm asking to secure funds for that line. In the beginning of the summer season of 2002, a high-speed catamaran named Judith was introduced in the Primorje-Gorski County, which was very well accepted by the islanders, as it enables them to connect daily to Rijeka, i.e. leaving the island in the morning and coming back this afternoon. Four times a week the catamaran maintains the line by the external route and three times a week by the inner route. The islanders demand what I consider justified, to enable them to have a daily relationship during the working part of the week, and that is only possible if an additional catamaran is introduced this year, i.e. if the mentioned lines are completely separated. The introduction of two catamarans should also consider the introduction of two catamarans as the possibility of transporting them and part of the island's supplies, whose price is far lower on land than on the islands themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4453	Thank you. Dear Representative Happy Ferenchuck. He's not here. Dear Representative Zdravko Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4454	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. In the state of the budget at all levels, and in particular the state budget is always a difficult and responsible job, where there are the largest number of dissatisfactions from the parliamentary majority, but also from the ranks of the parliamentary minority. But I would say that this first draft budget of the new government was made in different conditions than before, because we first had temporary funding due to the election year, and the second one was a change of government. Our tradition so far has always been to say what's left of the last government, where everyone defends their position. They could list all changes in power from 1990 to today, where everyone called their predecessors, but I don't think that this leads anywhere and that we should turn to the future, because I am deeply convinced that we all here want the best budget for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We bring this budget at the time of the slowdown of economic activity from the 2nd half of 2003, which is visible from the lower growth rate of industrial production, as well as the slowdown of more than double trade growth in 2003 compared to 2002. The slowdown of trade growth will also continue due to a restrictive monetary policy, which aims to reduce personal consumption, but also due to unworkable weeks and shortened working hours. The GDP growth rate for 2004 is expected to be 3.2% and the average inflation rate is expected to be 2.4%. We have to start with the fact that in this year we have to pay 16.8 billion kuna and domestic debts as well as cca 5 billion interest. Which is an extremely heavy burden for this budget. When we take fixed expenditures in the budget for education, health, military, police and others, then it is clear to all of us that there are not too many available resources left that can be rerouted. I therefore believe that, within the possible proposed budget and development and social, as far as possible, developmental as possible, as the construction of all major buildings continues since the building of the highways, since by summer there will be almost 177km of highways, investments in small and medium enterprises continue, and jobs will continue in the reconstruction of railways, but with reduced intensity towards real opportunities. In particular, it is important to stress this, because there was a speech about a complete interruption, which is not true, and especially because I come from Brod-Posavina County, where there was a large number of cars at Djura Djakovic's factory, which is why I want to deny it, means that there will be no interruption, but that there will be only a reduced volume, according to realistic possibilities. Also, more investment in science is visible. The social budget is also, if we see from the fees that will increase according to defenders, pensioners, mothers, births, where most necessary. At the same time, to ensure the credibility of the state, the government will keep the deficit at 4.5%. And the objective of this budget is certainly to retain macroeconomic stability, and fiscal consolidation through a reduction in the budget deficit. We therefore welcome the Croatian government's approach to making the budget very realistic and responsible within possible frameworks. Since I come from Brod-Posavina County, I have one proposal, since indeed, according to all indicators, our county is mostly in the last place, and it is also a proposal for the government to help out of the state budget that last year amounted to 9.6 million kuna for the county, and now it is proposed 4 million 533 thousand, to increase by 2.5 million kuna, because I know, since I am also a council member of the County Assembly as much as we have difficulty with funding. The arguments are because Brod-Posavina County belongs to the group of economically poorest counties after the Homeland War, but also to an increase in population over 20,000 that we received mainly from Bosnia Posavina. At the same time, I would like to make a proposal that would be very helpful to agriculture, which is basically what the money is supposed to be for. It's about putting into motion a counter-defense from a fight that's caused us a lot of damage in our area so far. I think there are certain differences between those who are in charge of this, meaning hydrometerological services and those who need to organize it. And I'm just going to give you an estimate of the damage in the area of only Brod-Posavina County that we followed from 1997 to 2001 is 172 million kuna. The average of five-year average reported damages from fighting in the area of our county alone is 34 million and 400 thousand kuna. And the total costs of the operational implementation of the defence against fighting in the Republic of Croatia are 22 million kuna. So only in one county is far greater average damage than that we financed the entire and timely defense against fighting in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And I'd just like to say a few words when the question was, I'm sorry that there isn't a colleague Ljubica Lalić, I think that when it comes to agriculture they haven't exactly shown themselves in the past four years because since the total collapse of the largest agrocombinate we've ever had and for years, the country by function has always remained almost nothing and what they've done in the village has been very bad so that this has been shown in these elections. When it comes to Djuro Djakovic, I have to say that for the past 4 years after the difficulty had the installation of Đura Djakovic when Bapkok came into bankruptcy we received one guarantee from the Croatian government at 3.2m euros. And that in 92, the Croatian government completely rescheduled Đur Djakovic with 116.5 million marks and that we cannot measure if we only assume that the past government in which the party Ms. Lalic participated also gave guarantees to 67 million, 67 million euros, to one company alone. Therefore, we were not equally treated as regions, and therefore I believe that as far as agriculture is concerned, I think that the minister has done the best he could through the budget, and therefore I believe that the speed and efficiency of the new government in making the budget is commendable because the adoption of the budget will allow us to pay off the incentives that we have not been able to do so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4455	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4456	I am correcting the incorrect allegations about Djuru Djakovic. Government in the term of office of 2000/2003. Except that she gave a guarantee to cover the risks of Bapcock's bankruptcy, she gave the job. Given that on many bridges and renovations Đuro Djakovic got the job and also got a job on the railway. But apparently someone thinks giving money is a solution for companies, giving jobs is a solution. And one more thing, what the former government gave before 2000 went into bankruptcy of banks and nothing got Đuro Đakovic today, and today Djuro Djakovic is in danger because of the eating money that Djura Djakovic had not received but had stolen from banks and it is known who was responsible for these banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4457	Dear Representative Slavko Linic, it is your turn to discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4458	Thank you very much, President, I'd like to start and talk globally about the budget. And I'd start with our biggest problem and that's the problem with the high balance of payments deficit. And whoever strategically, macro-strategically thinks about it will always try to see what to do to reduce the balance of payments deficit. The balance of payments deficit solves exports or goods or services. And we were very concerned with the problem of exporting goods because the main problem is the incompetence of Croatian products and the process for a Croatian product to be competitive, in order to be able to place it in export means, first of all, other than investment funds needed time. And whoever deals with the budget then tries to answer how to secure a smaller balance of payments in a shorter time. And yet the answer is that we are the most competitive on Croatian soil and that is why the investment in tourism provides a solution, but what is very important is Croatia's geostrategic position and every investment in transport, regardless of whether it's a road, whether it's a railway, whether it's a pipeline, whether it's an pipeline, whether it's a port, or a river port, because it's where short investments can be competitive, provide foreign exchange inflows and reduce budget, I apologize, payment deficit or trade deficit of the Republic of Croatia. This is where someone thinks about how to go into development, how to fix this situation, given that time and time will pass by when we invent, we find new products with which we will be competitive on the world market and on other people's soil to try to fight larger exports. This is why the battle for development is also a battle for infrastructure, a battle for infrastructure investment because it will reduce the greatest danger that can disrupt both macroeconomic stability and macroeconomic indicators, which is precisely the balance of payments deficit. And that's why it's always important to invest. It's important to invest. And you can't abandon projects that will reduce the pay deficit. But that's not the only reason. The main problem of failed privatisation is a good part of shutting down the industry process. Therefore, the traditions we will build through infrastructure will be able to slowly restore a part of the industry that can be competitive on the domestic market. And it's about a battle for macroeconomic indicators to continue macroeconomic stability that has lasted with certain results for many years. What can we say? With this budget, it is evident that the battle for infrastructure, the battle for investment, is not being maintained. We're not holding. We're leaving. That's for sure we're leaving. Those investments that are scheduled to show that we do not have a sequel to this battle. There's something else I'd like to say. In the arguments that we have ahead of us, we are not talking and here we are not talking about the fall, but we are talking about slowing down certain positive trends in growth, in industrial and investment indicators. Slowing down, that's alarming, only the election period meant that fall. Just a period. What does that mean? That a good part of state investment slowed down by the elections, indeed slowed down already had a negative impact on certain macroeconomic indicators. They must be alarming for our government, they must be alarming. And then a fundamental dilemma arises whether this challenge accepts how the fact and the whole 2004 stay without trying to stop this particular dispute and return it to those indicators that we need. We need it. We don't see that battle in this proposal. Dispute of indicators is accepted as a fact for the whole year. For what? Well, then, those are the biggest problems now. What is the financial situation in the Republic of Croatia? I'd say extraordinary. Extraordinary. For the first time, we can say that this government finally has domestic capital at its disposal. There is and will be a problem with spending pension funds and providing funds and writing in this material extraordinary results and positive results of the economy, and even part of the economy does not want to continue investing in its activity, forming investment funds and making them available for investment. We finally have the Croatian financial market. We finally have kunas. Yeah, it's true. Four years of kuna gone and we were spending foreign exchanges, we were in debt to be able to go into development. So we can go to the roads. It is evident that the situation at this point is different and that these money has and that there will be a problem paying these money. That it will be a problem for all those who save in funds, because they don't know where the money is going to be, and that's what we really need to talk about, seriously. So money's not a problem, we have projects, but then it's a different problem, and the other one's called the budget deficit, and that's the only constraints. The deficit is the problem. And I congratulate the government who managed to convince the IMF and the international institutions that 4.5% of the deficit for this year is acceptable and does not burden me with a 6.5 billion charge if it served to convince the IMF that we are not going to the 2.9th time this year and that is the government's success and no one wants to challenge it because that is the only problem. So there's money, there's kuna at last, there's projects and it could be invested, but the problem is 4.5% and there's now the government's choice. It's a huge restriction, it's a problem how to be responsible, how to simply execute that obligation, how not to exceed the number, and you have money. These are problems, but it's our responsibility to have investments. Because you have to know it says here, we finally stop spending. There is no consumption, citizens are reducing consumption. All 30% of imports are going into consumption at the moment. All restrictions of the National Bank give effect and we need to boost capital investment. The state still has to, because our economy isn't strong enough. That's what Minister Shuker himself said if the state doesn't hold that particular investment, it's also jeopardizing a 3.2% rate of development. It's the greatest danger we have to fight for, and we have the money. And of course there's that philosophy. 4.5% accept charges related to this so they can have 4.5%. That's good. 4.5% of us still have the right to have a deficit. But this government has defined itself and for some I would say further expenditure that reduces investment opportunities and these are our problems. And as for the railroad, the project is abandoned. The moment you vote against 0.60 for the Railways tomorrow, there's no investment in the Railways. The problem with the former government was that there was no money for the Railways, so the Railway itself was in debt, so it's now the problem that Minister Schuker is talking about, and even finance has taken over some of the debt, so it's not seen in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport, and that's the money that's missing forever. There are 18 thousand employees plus 6 thousand imported societies directly 24 thousand. If they do not have direct sources to monitor the restructuring of the railways, they will neither maintain themselves, but what is most important will not be the infrastructure programme with which we will earn and reduce deficits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4459	I thank my colleague Linic. Go ahead, Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4460	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that Mr. Linic and I can now face each other in such a tolerated atmosphere. The first thing I would say and what I have already shown this afternoon, which is that the current balance of payments deficit has greatly affected the growth of gross domestic product and economic growth, and that is something that unfortunately in Croatia is still indivisible and impossible to separate from each other at this moment. When we had the biggest balance of payments deficits then we had the biggest growth of economic activities and that's our tragedy and that's our economic sadness that unfortunately in the past times we didn't recognize it in time and we didn't try to remove it in time. That's our biggest problem, and I'm glad you said that. Because when you look at the structure of the gross domestic product, you don't talk about it for the last three months, the last year, that's when the official data were known, actually from the report of the Croatian National Bank for 2002 when it's said that practically 80% of the growth of the gross domestic product makes up consumption. 07 investment in infrastructure, so investment from the state budget, and that's our problem that will follow us. And now we're in a situation where we have a restriction on the growth of gross domestic product as it is. As soon as we have a limit, we have a limit on the debt, we have a limit on investment in infrastructure, and that may be the biggest tragedy that in recent years has not tried to find some, some substance for this state investment in infrastructure. Perhaps certain infrastructure facilities should try to find another investment, and that part of the budget money should be rerouted in another way, and that's something we're simply looking for at this point, and that's why I also stressed this morning, Mr. Prime Minister. Sanader and I to direct foreign investment are currently the only salvation for Croatia. And we can now talk about whether to invest as much or as much in the Railways, whether the basis will be damaged by Djuro Djakovic, Rade Končar, Gredelj and all who are tied to the Railways because of what is slowed down. However, without increasing foreign direct investment, we are very difficult to talk about more significant growth in gross domestic product about 3.2%. So we can now invent hot water as much as we want, but the basic problem is why we didn't create a prerequisite for a larger entry of foreign capital. In 2000, in the seventh month, we passed the Foreign Investment Encouragement Act, which I and most of my fellow opposition colleagues then said from this pay phone that it was a law for a targeted group of investors. It is known for whom, for large trade chains, because they were the only ones who invested more than 30 million in Croatia at that time, and they were therefore exempt from profit tax and practically 10 years did not pay profit tax. So that's something that's undeniable. The battle for infrastructure is not abandoned, that's for sure. However, I would very much like to have someone reveal to me the magic formula of how to make up for these billions and a half kuna for the Railways which these days are the top topic in Croatia. If it is already said that HDZ has increased consumption with some of its pre-election promises, then it cannot be said that, if that is the case, that, at the same time, by signing a collective contract right before the election,... A significant increase in consumption on the other hand did not increase. [[You don't understand.]] So that's where we can put it and say that we're all couples, 1-1. But the main problem is that in this situation when for this or that reason money was spent that shouldn't have been spent. They should not have been spent for reasons why the Republic of Croatia did not have them at that time and you cannot spend something you do not have because if the Republic of Croatia had that money at that time then these money would have been balanced. And that's the basic problem, we spent something in advance and when it had to catch up to us. Unfortunately, we arrived at the moment when HH was supposed to cross one more step into modernization and we must publicly admit it. And we can't get away from it. We spent at a given point more than we had it was the opinion and international financial institutions. Unfortunately, in 2003, the pre-election was served and this can be seen from the diagrams of growth and activity in construction, and you will see that 6 and 7 months were awe - inspiringly jumped at any year-on-year level backwards for three years - you know exactly why and then the 1.6 billion were spent on the highway. And this is what is disputed because in some kind of construction dynamics that the Croatian highway itself made for a 4-year period, they predicted that, based on some indicators, 5 billion and 400 kuna could be collected in 2003. But most importantly, these 5 billion and 400 million kunas have a significant impact on the growth of gross domestic products. Fortunately for all of us, the financial market in Croatia has been functioning, it is not yet what we think is as deep as we think it is, and we are going to have problems serving on the domestic market for 11.3 billion kunas this year, and it is estimated that in Croatia there will be around 12.8 billion kunas that we will be able to pay, so we are facing a deficit financing problem this year. And that's what's true. So we'll see what the result of all this together, what we did, how we did, in a month on the first road show when we went as a Croatian state. HBOR was a month ago and to say it didn't go badly, however, we definitely don't have enough money on the domestic market to cover the payment of old debts and to be in charge of the new deficit, so we're going to have to borrow some part of it out, that's for sure at this point because all the estimates are that somewhere at this point there are about 12.8, 13 billion funds that will be able to be placed in Croatia. The budget deficit, today so much is said and I think that in 2002 the reduction artificially from 6.8 to 4.8 shows that it must not be run outside economic frameworks and economic environments. It is simply impossible for Croatia to reduce the deficit by 2 percentage points with such economic activities and an economic environment in 2002. It was only the inability of certain investments that increased in 2003. 0,6 kuna for railways. Mr. Representative, you know very well that if this were to be done, then the railways would be balanced and that the deficit could no longer be 4.5 or 5 more than it could be far greater. At the time when railways have such income they are practically outside the budget user. I've been walking around all day not to say it, however, since today there was one rather uncontrollable call on television, so there was one of my reactions there I had to say at the end of this session, you know it well at the time that 60 limes went directly to the Croatian roads and Croatian highways that they became an integral part of the general consolidated balance sheet of the Republic of Croatia. If this was made with railroads you know very well, you're too deep in that business and we can't even talk about the 6% deficit anymore. Therefore, the railways can only be financed to say so much and so much money will be provided in the budget but the quota part of which is 60 limes so much to get to the Croatian railways. And I have to tell you there's no speciality in the Croatian state of 60 June it's just an instrument to avoid the control of this Parliament, it was Slovenia, the former Slovenian finance minister when he came for the prime minister, right back in the budget, and when the Croatian highways were said to be in the Ministry of Tourism, the sea, traffic and development about a billion 420 million for highways, a billion 420 million for roads, that doesn't mean that these roads could get less money but there's something else. These money that constantly comes to the giro accounts of one and the other roads stands on these giro accounts while at the same time Croatia is on the market, in fact the state budget on the money market must in the short term be in charge of paying some of its obligations. So don't you think if these funds went through the budget that the Croatian state would be more liquid so that sometimes we wouldn't have to reach for money in the money market and pay unnecessary interest, I think it's high time we started thinking about spending every lip as rationally as possible because it's obvious that we have more or less time or money to throw away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4461	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4462	So I'm correcting your finding that 60 limes must go to the railways, it doesn't have to, so lift 60 lips and let them go into the state budget and give the money, you won't consolidate the railroad. Pick up 60 lipes, you have a proposal that's already on the agenda and argues that it's not going to be 60 lips. Raise 60 lip fuel prices and put them in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4463	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4464	Mr. MP, the proposal goes in this direction to not go 60 limes directly to the Croatian railways and I have told the reason why and that is the only reason. And 60 lips in the budget will be what goes 1. 4. ...for the railroads. But you know very well that you said yourself when we're opening tickets now let's open them up until the end when we were at that joint meeting that you said you'd raise the excise duty by 30 Lips to cover the investment in the railroads. That's where you said it was the only possible way. The second thing, I said we invested this year, we are actually proposing 300 million more investment to the Croatian Railways than it was last year. And why is that? And last year, again, some work on the railroad was made that wasn't paid last year will be paid this year and let's not exactly drag the cat to the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4465	Okay. Otherwise, what we agreed at the Bureau of Parliament with the presidents of all clubs remains is that amendments to the budget can be made by Tuesday at 2:00 p.m., closing at 2:00 p.m. I'm just mentioning it once more so the club presidents are here to remind the other MPs, to get to know them there's plenty of time, it's already been around 200, and I don't know how many amendments, there's time until Tuesday at 2:00. Dear Representative Mate Brletić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4466	Mr. President of the Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. At the beginning, I note that on behalf of the Democratic Centre, I will vote in favour of the proposal for a state budget for this year, and I will try to state the reasons for the acceptance. The proposal for a state budget for, this year's budget is conservatively planned in the best sense of the word. It is realistic that it is not necessary to overheat spending particularly on state spending. The level of the fiscal deficit and the public debt have determined the development opportunities that were necessary had to be adapted to the budgetary sustainability criteria. Obligations, public debt obligations and transferred liabilities from last year of 6 and a half billion kuna each responsible and now our Government has to pay, which are detailed on pages 18 and 19. The reasons for the 2004 State budget proposal along with the deficit of the Croatian highways have determined with all the resuscitability of planning the expenditure of the State budget, the level of the fiscal deficit and the planned public debt on 54% of the gross domestic product. The answer to the question why we support conservativeism in planning the growth rate of economic activity is in the following: if a higher rate of growth of the gross domestic product is achieved, or more than 3.2% realistically and 5.6% nominally retaining the total expenditures and tasks of the State budget in the fiscal year 2004 nominally by 4.6% compared to 2003. It would allow for a reduction in deficits, but also public debt, and since in this case the growth of gross domestic product would be the result of an increase in economic activity rather than consumption. In addition to fiscal consolidation, a significantly higher growth rate is expected in 2005. Despite the restivity in planning the expenditure of the State budget for 2004, the 2004 draft budget not only meets all the social contributions components and allows for the continuation of investment projects in road construction, housing and transport infrastructure, it has already set priorities in the already described restrictive frameworks that we could briefly recognise to speed up investment in human capital, as well as in the development of those activities that are crucial to create assumptions for accelerated economic development, thereby addressing the unemployment issue. That not only the phrases of the impossible search for alibis for the so far claims are given are the reasons why the average increase in functional expenditure on investment in science and education. Then capital infrastructure facilities in the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development with an increase of 23% compared to the funds implemented in 2003. To improve and improve the efficiency of the Croatian judiciary with an increase of more than 16% compared to the execution of 2003. In promoting entrepreneurship that is planned and higher in 2004 compared to 2003 only in the Ministry of Economy, Labour, entrepreneurship for 660 million kuna and should amount to slightly less than 25 billion kuna and via the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 600 million kuna. The resuscitation of the Croatian economy is closely linked to improving and improving the efficiency of the Croatian judiciary. It's recognized as one of the most important priorities. In the expenditure and expenditure position, the 2004 National Budget Proposal relating to the Ministry of Justice clearly shows the features of the planned policy for 2004. In their opening speeches at the beginning of the Justice Minister's term, clearly defined objectives and moves that are intended to be made in order to implement reforms and start development in the Croatian judiciary. Reform and development of the Croatian judiciary as necessary, assessed by all relevant international institutions as one of the most important... questions. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to improve the material status of judges and to equalise with other employees compared to the expenditures on salaries, contributions and fees to judicial employees, the planned funds are rising 15% according to the 2003 mass. The mass growth stems from an increase in the base for the account of salaries as well as from all other employees of the State budget average by 4.3%, but also more due to the recognition of the judges' internships and more importantly because of the relatively high planned employment of young, completed trainees at the premises of advisors who, with experienced judges, would be trained for the duties of judges and disfellowshipped in carrying out less complex court cases. Capital investment is growing compared to the execution in 2003 by 32% of which investments in business and construction facilities for their construction, adaptation and equipment grow at 70%. In the project of handling land books and catastras 7% and in the technical assistance project related to bankruptcy by more than 3 times. Investments in information were planned at the level of those from 2003 when relatively large funds were spent for this purpose while investments in the reconstruction of furniture of vehicles were reduced to a third spent in 2003. A total of 147 million kuna capital investments were planned for 2004. Better spatial conditions are being created for the work of judicial criminal authorities through information, human teaming means investing in human potential, capital investment in the Croatian judiciary plans to make a more important step in the reform and development of the Croatian judiciary. It can be expressed satisfaction that in determining the amount of expenditure for this year's State budget, the priorities set out. We have always pointed out that it is important to set priorities and development programmes must adapt to budgetary sustainability criteria, in particular in terms of high public debt and fixed deficits. I will vote in favour of the proposal for a state budget for 2004 with the following on behalf of the Democratic Centre. Since I'm an MP from the fifth constituency, and I live in the city of Ilock, we have one of three problems that the city government has faced today. The former government has promised to open a municipal court in the city of Ilock. To date, it has not been opened, although the former justice minister visited the city of Ilock, examined the court building that was to be bought at the price of 2 million kuna. The programme has not been realised, so I am reducing the Government of the Republic of Croatia that if there is any possibility of providing certain funds for the purchase of the building this year, where a municipal court in Ilock would be opened. It is known that the city of Ilock has not had a municipal court since the 1960s when Yugoslavia abolished it. I mean, how long will the city wait for this institution to open?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4467	Thank you, dear colleague. Time's up. The replica of Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here's your esteemed co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4468	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative. It's on the Internet, if you haven't seen it by now, tomorrow it'll be in your paper, what the General Court's General Court is thinking about the budget for the judiciary. So please read it. And as for capital investments, never in history has funds been invested in capital investments for one year, or two years, and, of course, not all of them could have been made. And exactly, I agree, that Ilock's a big problem. However, there is no new capital project in this budget. It's just going on with those projects we started. And We have completed many before.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4469	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It's time for the esteemed colleague, Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4470	Secure peace. You're not going to believe this, but I think we should have night sessions twice a year. He called me now, and now I got a call from a constant nightmare viewer, namely, until the first time we got young people watching this session and recognized it in one MP, he thought that Jayan was famous from, and that didn't mean the President of the Parliament. So I have a duty, and that's why I'm going to be doing more serious things here. Namely, I would like to join Mr. Linic's little appeal against the railroads. I'm a big railroad fan, my whole family, and I feel sad, especially when I look at it, I mean, when these wolves are gone. Because the HSP coalition would be practically so cheap that we could cut the railroads, that plan, something else. I convinced them not to promise our voters anything. Because I wrote catechism and the budget price of my program was nothing, nor did we promise the pensioners anything, nor did we promise the minorities, nor did I know anything. So, now it's a side-by-side thing. So my appeal is now a serious nature. Mr. Finance Minister, he's a double. When we first passed the Constitution, we called it the Christmas Constitution, I would like this to be a consumer budget and for you to advocate using budgetary behavior. This means that every civil servant this year is aware of the need to save, that small things can be saved a lot, on phones, on gasoline, on every little thing. That in some way at the time of the Lensage and we who were five, six days in the Communists' alliance and those here at HDZ who were 20 years old and these here for 30 years, so there are those, I'm not saying. That we're trying, trying to think about putting this budget on one big man, and that's what my other idea is about. And that's one part of my little promise to one man, that in the budget, I wish I didn't have to write that amendment, but to write it down on behalf of the HDZ or we could Mr. Jarnjak and I to build a path that goes from Sosic to St. Gere passes by Jazovka, it's a road that costs little and we call him "The Traveler" or "The Way of the Blessed Franjo Kuharic". So that's gonna bring together a lot of ideas, and I think we're gonna do a good thing. As for the very theoretical background on which the budget was built. Since the government has released me and I am very grateful to her for the obligation to continue to deal with highways and..., because they have taken over the USKOK and other institutions of the rule of law, I will now have a lot of free time and by the time we get to the debate we will write, I will ask Mr. Shuker and I will ask a little budgetary beginner for the parliamentary representatives. In fact, this is where the debate is being conducted so that it acts confusingly. In fact, it is quite logical that the left opposition is in power, she could say that this budget is developmental and social. Because she believes in the entrepreneurial power of the state, in the state as a redistributive one mechanism and it's quite logical for her and she was engaged in state entrepreneurship. However, if the Government of the Right Centre is in power, then this is not unfortunately not a development budget, because the development budget is one metric or mathematical category. Only if taxes are lower and the budget is reduced, that's good. And that's why you'd recommend it, and there's no time already, if you weren't to defend yourself that you'd cut something, because as soon as they said to the right, you cut this, this, you say we didn't cut it. However, you boast immediately, we have reduced, because reducing budget expenditure means cutting taxes, that means opening more space for the entrepreneurial and private initiative, so it should look, so it should look. As for the breach of that budget. It is unfortunately some sort of part of a smaller part of the coalition's commitments to the imposed growth of budgetary commitments. And secondly, debt liabilities created by all earlier authorities. So I wouldn't argue here anymore and it wouldn't be good if we were fighting about it. And the last thing about the future of the budget debate, I talked about it earlier. It's convenient and riteful and it's useful for Parliamentarians to have the opportunity to show their electoral body to stand up for it, and it's good that they propose amendments, all reasonable governments allow it, they say, I want a water line, I want a school, and the smart government rejects those amendments. It's so everywhere in the world and it'll probably be there, but here and there to show respect, you'll be doing something about it. But what is inadmissible next year is that the motions of the state budget are in such a superior position in relation to the responsibility of a huge one that we have towards our voters and tax payers, because we are the ones who approve the budget. and in this sense, this situation cannot be repeated again, this Parliament must have not only the Committee on the State Budget, it must also have a special fund that would allow any agent who is not necessarily a macroeconomic or financial expert to come, to receive advice that this Parliament is not using professional and advisory services used by the Government, but to have an autonomous institution or expert team to judge us. Because if we use the same one, the one who suggests government will also suggest to us, to make it useful. And the last thing I want to say about hidden reserves. I've already said it's a shame there'll be less money for the railroads. However, there are several opportunities to improve financial management in this country. The first is related to a shortcut that may mean nothing to people who are not economists and which means PPP, which means "public private partnership" in the area of railways, in the field of electricity, in the area of other large systems, in the area of... property. [[You don't understand.]] There are huge assets that can be conveniently linked to different private initiatives and capital and get what makes the basis for modern development. And there are two more possibilities. One is a dead fund, that's the capital of our country's fund. As far as I know, there's about a hundred million dollars or so. The fund's management is one and unsettling. A defense fund is being created. Let's not let these funds turn into clientelistic funds because they're huge potentials. The defense fund will have I mean a portfolio of 400-500 million euros and that quality stock in large companies. Therefore, there is much more serious work to be done in this area, and I will have a lot of time, I can't take fees, and it will be an honor to help as much as I can.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4471	Thank you very much, colleague Letica. It is a late hour, but with due respect, I must give you a notice on the basis of Article 214(1), subparagraph 5, for the demeaning of MPs because you can't write to novices, you can only write to all MPs not. And now the corrections of an incorrect quote. Mrs. Babic-Petrichevic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4472	Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Slaven Letica when he said all of you, Mr. Letica, who were five, six days in the Union of Communists, and those in HDZ who were, I don't know, I don't know how many years. So please, that's not true. There are people here who have never been to the Alliance of Communists for one second. Secondly, Cardinal Kuharić's life and work and merit have not yet been blessed. He should be declared the Holy Father of the Pope blessed even though he deserved it by his work, with respect he was as President Tudjman was the historic president of the Croatian state, so Cardinal Kuharic was historic for the Croatian people. And this second thing you said, "I can say this here when these wolves aren't here." Oh, those are our dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4473	A fellow Turkish, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4474	I'd like to correct the incorrect claim when the Honorable Mr. Representative said by turning to the left that they're taking great care of the state and here we are somehow on this side like this. I would mention that the left side has always worked, interpreted and advocated me and said that the state is going to die so I don't know where we're from right now we're not the ones taking care of the state. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4475	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It's my dear colleague Mato Raven's turn. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4476	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Here, after this inspired speech by Mr. Letica, I think it'll be easier for me to speak, at least we've woken up or woken up. As the state budget in these 16-and-a-half hours says, I will try to make my view of this year's budget as soon as possible, of course, by looking from the position of Slavonia or Brod-Posavina County, which I am coming from knowingly skipping to say a general review of the budget in which, like other colleagues and colleagues, I would have to say a lot. The position of local and regional self-government in such a budget concept makes it logical to make the necessary resources for the minimum development of local environments. Therefore, the contradictions in the debates that could be heard today are also logical, and I would say quite normal. I believe that the strategic commitment of all representatives is at least those who come from Slavonia to stop negative development trends and to join the developed works of the Republic of Croatia, of course using their own brains, knowledge, traditional workability and of course the usual comparative advantages. Regardless of what has been done over the past period and visible deviations to better unfortunately in Slavonia, there is still the belief that the darkness begins in the Sesvets and as it walks east in an economic sense, I dare say, it is getting darker. I consider the reasons for such a condition to be known to everyone and that they should not be mentioned in particular in these hourly hours. Therefore, on behalf of many of my fellow citizens who have suffered a huge burden during the Homeland War, of course, and in my personal name, I show both dissatisfaction and disappointment with the proposal of this year's budget because I believe that this time Slavonia has been forgotten especially by the Ship-Posavina County, that traditionally inert Slavons have been duped again, that as so far they must be armed with patience, perseverance and faith in themselves I would say a wait and perhaps wait for better days. Whether it will be in a year or more to be seen and, of course, hope. There are few examples of great concern for the pleasure shown, such as the case of my colleague byte, who, of course, I fully support and support in the expressed needs of our citizens from Požega-Slavon County. But unfortunately, the situation in other parts of Slavonia is not such and is not particularly such in the area of Brod-Posavina County. They are very emotional about it, as we have heard, especially my colleague Ljubica Lalić, as well as my colleague Zdravko Sočković. What do I support this claim with? Well, first of all, the next thing you know, I'm gonna lean back a little bit to say to Mr. Letic that I'm not gonna be rational because all of this I'm going to suggest is our smart government will refuse. But here's what I'm going to do for the citizens of Brod-Posavina County. First, the largest resource of the fertile Slavonian country, unfortunately, is still unable to process the intensity we might otherwise be able to handle. Despite the fact that agricultural land distribution programmes have long been finished, the country is not in the hands of those who could get the most out of it because of unresolved ownership relations, which is due to the lack of compliance with the status of the catastrus and the terrain itself. Despite the fact that units of local self-government but also regional or regional self-government have provided their truly modest budgets with funds and in principle agreed with the state geodetic administration to implement this project in the budget, the planned funds amounting to only 500 thousand kuna, which is of course not enough to launch the project and where more serious work. I believe, dear colleagues and colleagues, that the amendments we have submitted will therefore be respected and that will allow us to at least run Slavonia a little by starting Croatia. Furthermore, Slavonia is extremely rich in water but in one case it is unfortunately too large and in another too small. In fact, we have heard from many officials, including the Prime Minister, that the project of irrigation at the level of highway construction, but as it is called, the purpose in the budget planned to provide or as only 4 million kunas were planned was asked not only of the irrigation project but also of road construction. As droughts occur in the Republic of Croatia on average every third to fifth year and in order to irrigate such extreme climate conditions, a high-quality water management issue that will certainly be in function and irrigation needs to be addressed. As the channel network system is almost subdued or during this past period, it is primarily necessary to bring it into operation. Of course, for almost 6 thousand and 800 km of waterways, the dikes, the shore fortifications and walls of which Croatia is concerned by 86 million kunas is not enough. And that only by much greater means can we fix this situation. Of course and motivate landowners, we who live in Slavonia know the state of the channel network from base to detail. So, motivate the owners to at least pull out the big trunks that are in the waterways themselves. At least in such a way, with a modest contribution, it helps to increase the flow of these streams at least a little bit. Of course, the big problem in Slavonia is also the drinking water problem. Although in some areas there is plenty and very high quality. This time, however, there was no means to build an eastern regional water line that should not only remove thirst in both Vukovar-Srijem and Brod-Posavina and Osijek-Baranja and Požega-Slavon County, but also enable what is extremely important to all of us is economic development. Why and why this is the situation between me and us in the area of Brod-Posavina County is not clear, and I don't know we'll probably get an answer from the government. If by any chance Slavonia gets around droughts or floods, it's usually a fight. Only in the period from 97 to 2001 do I think that the colleague Sockovic also spoke of it, it is not a waste to repeat it again. The damages of fighting in Brod-Posavina County amounted to more than 172 million kuna or on average 34.4 million kuna per year. The total cost of the entire defence against fighting in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia is only 22 million kuna. Of course, all our appeals to the former government and now they haven't given the desired result. Obviously these arguments aren't enough. Unfortunately, this year's budget has planned an amount of only 500 thousand kuna. I believe that the comment is too high for us in Slavonia, especially for us in Brod-Posavina County, while respecting this force the damage remains to pray to God because the Slavonian peasant money for crop insurance and plantation but also the property simply does not exist. Over the past years, the light at the end of the tunnel has been the funds of the Ministry of Trade, Small and Medium Entrepreneurship, which together with the funds of the Brod-Posavina County and Business Banks have enabled nearly 600 new jobs through a plasma cca. 260 million kuna. For the Brod-Posavina County, where more than 18,000 unemployed are indeed many. Efforts to continue in this trend, especially the employment of young people and women deny this budget, which for all these purposes, plans only 4.5 million kuna for the entire Republic of Croatia. A comment too high, and I'm afraid it won't go that way and the amendment we've given. The total income per capita per capita from 2001 was 717 kuna compared to the average of the Republic of Croatia of 2054 kuna and 34.9%. We're generously in 8 places which is the best indicator of the state of the Ship-Posavina economy. Fleeing from the overruling forces is not possible, therefore it is necessary, and we have heard that here, in the budget for this year, it is planned for the current support of only 4.5 million kuna, insufficient. Unfortunately, here, I see that time is already running out for me, doesn't allow me to try to count everything, so let me just point out a few things. Of course, in addition to the need to take care of caves and land books I've got two sentences left. [[Intruder: But time is up.]] The question is the County Court in Slavonski Brod, County Court in Slavonski Brod The hospital in Gradišca, here, I'll finish. [[Okay, two sentences.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4477	Thank you very much. It's your turn, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4478	I waited 16.5 hours but well, time goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4479	It is on behalf of the promoter, Minister Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4480	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad to hear that V.A. MPs are doing this to resuscitate, as I would say in the economy, living in the V. constituency because our data is truly catastrophic, economic. I've already said, you've provided information for Brod-Posavina County, in Vukovar-Sremia, unfortunately these data are even worse. Our number of unemployed is somewhere around here. Twenty-three thousand. And the total income per capita is smaller than in Brod-Posavina County. And normally all of us who are in the Parliament, whether we are in the Government, must advocate a balanced development of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore we must also advocate the development of those areas which are significantly lagging behind the average. And I've said in so far, that we must also be aware of the moment of time, the space and everything Mr. Shucker has spoken of. Probably our opportunities to develop, especially these, would have been much higher if there was no burden. And so I'm still going to replicate and tell you what's in the budget and what's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4481	I'm sorry, but you can't replicate a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4482	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm just gonna say what's in the program and what's not in it. At the positions of the Ministry, agriculture and forestry there are 15 million kunas for land management because I know what they are, how much they are, and how much the cost of taking care of land does not take care of land-based book departments and aligning them with the terrain. Also related to irrigation in the positions of the Ministry of Agriculture has two items, one of the 4 million kunas and the other is in the head of the water management, 19 million kuna. We know that irrigation projects are not a significant amount, but we also believe that these are the initial funds with which we will start designing programs, with which we will be able to do the initial part and prepare ourselves for, I would say, stronger investments in the following year. The issue of shallow water is one of the key issues for the complete space of Eastern Slavonia and is in good time headed for a solution through the regional waterway of Eastern Slavonia. But unfortunately, I must conclude that in the past term, even these funds were not what they are now in this item. And it is absurd that the area that lies on large stocks of good and quality drinking water is currently in the water supply of one of the most endangered. This should therefore be considered as a continuation of the Eastern Slavonia regional water pipeline project which has not worked in the past period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4483	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Correction of an incorrect quote from a colleague of the Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4484	Along the way, we have heard from the most responsible, including the prime minister, that strategic commitment is irrigation. It is unacceptable to consider 4 million only initial assets, and this is such a strategic project as the construction of highways. I don't think you should comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4485	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It's time for my colleague, Antun Kapraljevic. He's gone. He's losing his right of speech. There's a respected colleague, Ljubica Brdarić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4486	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, good morning. I will strive to make Mr. Shakespeare's recommendation as brief as possible, because in this long-standing debate almost everything has been said. No common sense in this Chamber contests the right of the Government to make a draft budget the way it wants it in accordance with the programme with which it won the elections and with its vision of development. It is okay, as it is equally well disciplined to express the enthusiasm of MPs from the ranks of the coalition that is in power. But in this case, you will allow it to be equally fine and natural that we MPs from the opposition that we have completely different programmes and visions of development are not as excited unless we are expected to implement the HDZ programme as directors of some health institutions. To believe that this is not what I express as well as all my colleagues and as President Racan, on behalf of the club, thinks that this budget is essentially not developmental and that this is why we will not support it. I also need to look back at some of the presentations of colleagues from Slavonia. The living truth is that we bear the burden of war bloody and heavy and we endure. It's the same way we've been smitten by converted heroes. That's what we're still recovering from. But we'll hold on to that, too. The time has come when, while we are slow and calm, inert as fellow Raven said, we have concluded if we do not ask that we do not win, because a child who does not pay will not be taken on hand. So it's perfectly normal and it's okay that we would like roads and railways, and corridor 5C and irrigation systems, and a system of fighting defenses and good water supply with drinking water. Our people deserve it. I don't think it would be normal or natural if we didn't ask for it. How many of our demands will meet is a very different question. Unfortunately, it's not up to us. I must say as well as my colleague, Raven, that we really expected, given all the promises made, that this part of our country will also be taken into account because Slavonia is Croatia, of course, fortunately. However, according to all those euphoric stories about Croatia's launch, we could be lucky enough to end up taping in place, not as a step back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4487	Thank you. It is next, dear colleague Marin Jurjevic, as the last speaker of this long-standing debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4488	Well, there's no problem. There's time. I'll speak for a while, so everyone can participate. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we've been here all day since yesterday morning and I wouldn't do it night, I wouldn't repeat what I was saying, and I won't ask about the hospital now, either. But there's only one thing I'm going to ask. That'll be all. All day, yesterday, here's the night of the aunt and what happened in these 15, 16 hours. In my opinion, one big thing, and I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary Shucker if he can answer. It's about the railroads. I watched yesterday at 19:30 the main Dnevnik on Croatian TV on which Dnevnik was told by Mr. Kalmeta that in June between Split and Zagreb, he would travel the slope trains because it is not true that the line of the lyca will not be ready, arranged etc. It's said at 19:30. If I understood you correctly when you were answering my colleague Slavko Linić, you said something quite the opposite - that it would not happen. That's how I understood you. That's why I'm asking you, that's why. In your opinion, this program will not be realised by you. So I ask Mr. Secretary, and now he'll have a chance to answer. So, in my opinion, the two ministers, in my opinion, so I understand that I have given different answers to the question that I am very interested in, I mean all of us in Split and Zagreb, and also in Croatia. So, the question is: will the 6th month of the year of the slope trains between Split and Zagreb be driven by the line as expected, so 4 hours and 45 minutes, or will they stand somewhere in Zagreb on a remiz or in Split in a hangar? Here, that's my question for the end of this long debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4489	Thank you very much, Comrade Jurevic. I'd like a final review of Minister Shuker now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4490	Thank you very much, Mr. President. But before I say a few words at the end of this long debate, if the Secretary of Resor said it would be so then it would be so. No, Slavko and I didn't say anything different. But I'm saying, if the Resort Minister said so, then that's the way it is. But colleagues and colleagues, excuse me, ladies and gentlemen MPs, I don't think we should end up having this long discussion giving long speeches. I think we've all said a lot to each other today. I thank you all for one very tolerated debate and the government will consider your proposals, amendments, and next week we will continue. Once again, thank you all for a truly high-quality and tolerated debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4491	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the debate on the budget next week. By Tuesday, March 2nd to 2:00 p.m., it's time to hand over the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen of the interstate, we will proceed with the session. We are going to the government's statement on the proposed amendments to the state budget for 2004. We've got a plate all in front of us, and we've got government members. The first is the amendment of Ms. MPs, MPs Dragica Zgrebec and Milanka Opačić. I'd like a representative of the government, please. Minister of Finance, Mr. Shucker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4493	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Amendment number one, Ms. Dragica Zgrebeb, Ms. Milanka Opačić, the Government does not accept. For the reason that the intellectual, these proposed reductions cannot be reduced because at the position of 3237 intellectual services less by 219 million kuna. These are primarily intellectual services at the Ministry of Science for certain projects that have started, which so far have not been, and the CARD programs. And other services less and other unremarked expenditure in the most part relate to the performance. To the execution, to the court.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4494	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zgrebec, please. Thank you very much. Mrs. Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4496	We have proposed reducing certain costs related to official travel and intellectual and other services, other specific services, representation, since they increase above average compared to a total increase in costs of 7%. In fact, Mrs. Kosor said after my hearing that she would reconsider these costs. They reviewed themselves in a way that increased official travel by 12.5 million, other services by 3.6 and a team of 150,000 and intellectual services by 21.7 million. So I can conclude that compared to the average increase of only these 4.5 points has increased by 450 million kuna above that 7% increase in costs. I'm just going to say on the example I said and in the debate, the team is only planning for one anniversary at the height of 240 thousand kuna. And that's about saving in this budget and asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4497	Thank you very much. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Second amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSP?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4498	The amendment fully proposed that Valda be resolved by the government's amendment to the Budget Implementation Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4499	HSP representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4500	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I'm sorry to get to the air. This is the amendment we have proposed, it is extremely important to resolve the relationship of the Republic of Croatia with the Republic of Italy. It is about the commitments that the Republic of Croatia has made, which it has taken as an international legal successor to the former state-owned form of Yugoslavia. In Article 2(2), the so-called ‘Staff’ is The 83rd Roman Treaty states that Croatia and Slovenia must pay a total of 110 million US dollars. Slovenia paid its share,... relations with Italy until Croatia did, although it was an obligation to do so from 90th to 13th of the same annual wars. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to speed up the matter, our Club has proposed an amendment to the budget for these remaining 35 million dollars, or 217 million kuna, to be paid out of this year's budget. We have given the amendment to Mr. Minister and to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget and we want this problem solved. If possible, either from the budget reserve as proposed by the Government or in any other way. Therefore, I would like to agree whether it can be realised this year, if it can be realised really from the budget reserve, we will withdraw this amendment immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4501	Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4502	This was proposed by the government by the amendment, with its amendment in the Budget Implementation Act. So get rid of it. And I think it's such a deal and it's reached with the club that at this point it's the simplest way to solve it because many things are still legally unsaid. And I think the first thing that needs to be solved is that this financial problem is solved, and for some things, ensuring that the resources are provided in advance is practically the death of that part of the funds, and this is the simplest thing if it is resolved over the year to start paying off from the current reserves.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4503	Comrade Tadic, are you okay with that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4504	So, you are, sir, you said we should settle some legal issues. But yesterday, we spoke to the Prime Minister about this amendment in which we very clearly agreed that the government is willing to pay off that amount of money in wars as the Agreement is exceptional, Romanically predicting it. We weren't talking about some legal, some conjecture, but simply the government's obligation to pay off the first, first war of this debt that we have to... So now you're talking about some legal assumptions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4505	And making a deal is the same legal business if I'm not wrong. And determining the dynamics... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4506	No, there's no, there's no talking about the contract, so it's just that we agreed last night, clearly, that the government would take the commitment and that during the year the budget reserve would pay off the first debt to Esul. That's what we're interested in, because it's in the government's amendment to budget implementation taken over.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4507	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4508	All right. Then I withdraw this adjective.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4509	Thank you. The third amendment of MP Antun Kapaljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4510	The third amendment is not accepted by the Government for the reason that no regulation has been adopted. And since no regulation was adopted, the funds could not be determined. And when we spoke to the representative, it was suggested that when the rules were adopted and everything that business, in fact, costs, would be paid off from the current reserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4511	Representative Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4512	I don't know, I don't know which way and from what data you came here that the rulebook wasn't passed. The rulebook was published in "The People's News" and the rulebook enters into force on Monday. But I thank you anyway for this interpretation because it means the government doesn't want to respect the law. Because the law decidedly states: "For the implementation of this Act, the funds will be secured in the state budget.". And as for the Parliament itself, in any case, the Parliament cannot be a mentor, it is saying that the Parliament will mentor us in the business of the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest. It can't be because we in the House are not regulated as a working body, and especially what the Commission needs to control and parliamentary officials, then I don't see how we can be independent if we should control this if the Parliament is our mentor. That means we wouldn't have any independence. And I want to say if we don't adopt this amendment to send a very bad picture to the public. We know in public that 10% of people trust this commission to start working and 90% don't believe. This is exactly the way we show them a picture. And I'm asking for a vote on the amendment in any case, and I suggest that the MPs either issue an amendment or that they release us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4513	Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4514	The law provides for the Parliament's professional services to do administrative work, but look. If the government commits to paying off the expenses from the current reserve, then I don't understand how we can send a bad message the day we osgiurared the meetings. So there's no amendment to that and that. And the funds will pay off when they come into existence the moment they come out of the current budget reserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4515	I'm looking at every case I'm not happy with this, because the law doesn't say what you said. The law states for the implementation of this Act the funds will be provided in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4516	What's reserved than a state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4517	I am voting on this amendment. Which the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4th Amendment of Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4518	The government does not accept the amendment because the funds are necessary for regular aircraft maintenance.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4519	Mr. Schucker should be honest and say that this is not my amendment this is an amendment that I have taken over from Mrs. Kosor who has fought hard for three years in this House to cut funds for the Directorate to use the official aircraft. I had this more excuse to submit this amendment once more, because, compared to the last budget, the funds for this directorate have increased neither less than 3 million kuna. So I thought this was a good opportunity for you to accept one amendment so that your colleague's radiation was almost 3 years behind. However, I am sorry that consistency has ceased by coming to power. Thank you very much for the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4520	I am voting on this amendment that the Government does not accept. Who's in? You pulled. Thank you very much. Amendment to the 5th Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4521	The government doesn't accept it because we think the funds are enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4522	Councilwoman Sobol, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4523	Well, I'm sorry that the government doesn't accept this amendment, the means envisaged are actually really minimal, which should be increased in the Gender Equality Office, the urgency was that with a gender equality office, it would later be in these other amendments, however, carry out certain activities of projects that are envisaged by national gender policy. And by abolishing the Committee on Gender Work of the Government's Commission, apparently no one was concerned that some activities and projects remained completely out of the system. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4524	Please. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. Amendment number six of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4525	The government also does not accept, as it believes the funds are necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4526	Mr. Minister, of course, unlike you, which I thought before a few years ago, while I was also here as a representative, that in our country, absolutely inexhaustiblely segregate funds for the toxic training of employees. Within the system of state administration. And all of what we're talking about is that we should make changes in the work of the state administration, and without having provided for funds for professional education and training anywhere in the budget, I think it's just going to be a dead letter on paper. He's asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4527	Thank you for voting on this amendment that the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 7 of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4528	The government also does not accept, for the reason that the office's proposal provides funds for the services of outside associates. It is an assessment of the office that it will need the funds of external associates in this amount. And the government has accepted it as such, and remains with its proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4529	I'm staying with this amendment of mys, that item intactly and personal services is usually spent on other things, rather than on some of the outsiders. Especially non-experts, I have foreseen here their reduction so that concrete activities and projects can then be developed within the gender equality office. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4530	Please. Who is for this amendment number seven that the government does not accept. Thank you for not getting the required number of votes. Amendment number 8 of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4531	The government does not accept, because the expenditure structure has been proposed by the Director and the proposal by the Member State of the total funds provided for for by these purposes provided for here are reduced. That's why the government doesn't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4532	Here you go, fellow Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4533	This is how you said the cost structure for this office was predicted by the principal, I don't know if the headmaster of the office. Because as far as I know, the head of the office was appointed a week ago before the draft budget came this way. I have tried this amendment in a more transparent way to show what this gender equality office should do. In particular, to point out that the abolition of the Committee on Gender Equality has not been addressed by anyone in the Government by those programmes and activities necessary for national policies to promote gender equality and to continue to be implemented in our country. I have provided for the allocation of real minimum resources, for some way to continue working on the establishment of the Committee's committee at local and regional level, to develop a methodology for collecting gender-based statistics, and to develop concepts and gender equality implementation of the Coordinator's education programme on gender equality. Because the law on gender equality provides for the appointment of coordinators in every ministry. Finally, no funding has been provided anywhere to develop a new national policy to promote gender equality for the period of 2005 because this policy, like any other policy, is such that it still requires more monthly work. If we don't start this year, I'm afraid we won't make such a deal over the next year. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4534	I am voting on this amendment. Thank you for not passing. Amendment number nine of the same Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4535	The government does not accept this amendment after a long-term purpose to establish a centre for professional training of civil servants, the centre is finally established. As an organisational unit of the Central State Administration Office. This is part of the Croatian share of the project, otherwise from the CARDs program will finance the activities of this centre. And I have to say now publicly that the government has secured the building to start working on this center and that it will soon function. We'll talk about the details of the program as soon as the centre is operational along with the experts implementing the CARD program.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4536	Comrade Sobol, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4537	So that I can also welcome the final establishment of a centre for professional training of civil servants. But I can't say I'm sorry to say that for official travel alone, 200 kuna will be spent. He writes intellectual personal services 300,000 kunas. I think it is completely non-transparetical that I do not know on the basis of which and what programmes training will be done, training for employees in the state administration, but I am afraid that if there is such training again, the part relating to the development of the programme of education of state officials, so I repeat the state officials, officials and gender-equirers will again remain completely out of all budget items and in that sense my amendment and I am asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4538	Please. I am voting on this amendment that the government does not accept. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 10 of Neven Mimica's MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4539	The government doesn't accept it either. Here, as I said in my statement on the previous amendment, the Government has provided its part for the start of work of the Centre for Professional Training of Civil Servants in the form of buildings, in the form of funds in the position of the state budget for the Croatian Academy and public administration, so far it is too soon to speak. Perhaps in one future, but now the center will come true we hope for results that are expected of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4540	Here you go, fellow Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4541	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will all agree that reducing the number of ministries is only the first step in reform, the overall reform of public administration. However, unless this amendment is adopted proposing the establishment of an educational institution for the formation of leading personnel among civil servants. It's not the same center that's being founded and the academy isn't the same thing. That first step will be the only one left. The necessary reform of the administration would not only slow down and delay but would stop at the very beginning. It is amazing to me that anyone can expect that without an orderly system of education, the existing public administration can be transformed into a modern, efficient, quality, responsible service to citizens as it stands in the government's work programme. Croatia is one of the few European countries that has no educational institution for senior civil servants at all. Each and every delay in establishing such a Croatian public administration academy is irrevocably giving up a generation of new high-school civil servants who can only be a guarantee that the state administration reform will be successfully completed, and thus the job of adapting to the standards and criteria of the European Union will be completed. Without this, there's no filling the so-called. The Madrid criteria on the institutional capacity to assume the obligations of membership in the European Union. Therefore, for me, to trust that without further education, the existing structure of civil servants can reform itself. It is equally expected that the deceased will themselves move the cemetery where they are buried, so I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4542	Please. I'm putting it to the vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 11 of Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4543	The government doesn't accept the amendment for any reason. The first thing we think insurance funds are enough to respect existing dynamics, but what I would like to say is that there are several amendments regarding customs crossings. Unfortunately, some technical preparations have not been made to allow jobs to be done. We have, among other things, a CARDS programme for Bajakovo and Bregana, but neither in time was the purchase of land, so it's property-legal relations nor certain documents were found. The government therefore believes that these insurance funds are sufficient for this year for the dynamics of works that will be possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4544	Here you go, Mrs. Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4545	With this amendment, I am looking specifically for a border crossing in the Police Centre to increase the funds for border crossings towards the Republic of Slovenia. The border crossing is now almost in the city centre. He's a few meters away from the city's main square. In the season it is almost impossible to traffic through the city, so it is halved into two parts and from one part of the city to another cannot be passed at all. This was discussed by the city council by Slovenia becoming a member of the European Union soon and the regime at the border will be even more stringent. The citizens are very bitter. There is no problem with land and no problem with licenses, it should simply begin to move the border crossing from the city centre and I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4546	Please, who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. This also consumed amendments 12 and 13 of representatives Dragutin Lesar and Željko Pavlica. Amendment number 14 of Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4547	It's not accepted for the same reasons. We believe that the funds provided provide dynamics at this time of possible work that can be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4548	This amendment concerns border crossings towards the Republic of Hungary. A similar situation as in the previous amendment. The railway border crossing in Kotoriba there are also interests on the Hungarian side to build a road crossing on the other side of the Mura River there are seven Croatian villages with our national minority who are also very interested and, according to our information, in our meetings with them, we have information that the Hungarian government is not opposed to being built alongside railways, or with one crossing that would actually be in function and for road traffic. So we should start with the documentation to build a roadway bridge, so I'm looking for a vote here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4549	I am voting on this amendment that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. This also consumed the amendment number 15 of Mr Zeljko Pavlica's representatives. Amendment number 16 of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4550	Amendment No 16 is accepted in part because the budget provides 324 thousand kuna to regulate the border crossing. However, as far as this is concerned, it is not a border crossing, but it practically falls within the jurisdiction of the port administration, and it is about the modification and repair of those wooden pillars. Therefore, we cannot refinance a part of the port that does not belong to the duty-free part through the financing of the border crossings, so it is not treated as... transportation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4551	Representative Drandić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4552	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. There is a state border crossing in the Rijeka Gate, and that resolution needs to be completed. I'd just like you to repeat the amount you said was secured.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4553	324 thousand kuna as agreed works are secured this year and will be completed. But this part that you're talking about doesn't belong to this part of that that refers to the border crossing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4554	All right. Thank you very much, and I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4555	Thank you. Amendment number 17 of Zvonimir Mršić's representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4556	The government doesn't accept for two reasons and the first thing last year is for means of balancing to... functions either spent or executed 900 million kuna. [[You don't understand.]] This year's government is proposing 150 million kunas more. Mršić's amendment proposes an increase of 600 million or almost 65%, not to mention what these funds will be used for, because then we would have to amend the Law on the financing of local self-government and what decentralised functions are further transferred to local self-government units to spend these 600 million. Because looking for funds for existing decentralised functions of 600 million, therefore an increase of 65% and without lowering certain obligations to local self-government units to take over part of decentralised functions at least is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4557	Mršić's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4558	Well, the thing is, we don't get along in numbers a little bit. I think that a billion and 100 million were spent on decentralisation over the last year, because it should count what those units of local self-government received in the first month, and we yesterday passed a law that unfavorably affects the budgets of local self-government units where then 30 million kunas of less taxes will benefit from an increase in the untaxable basis for pensioners. This fund is not for the reduction of decentralised assets but is precisely for the replacement of a part of the funds that is not achieved by decentralised means of 2,9, 2.6 and the rest. Since we assume that this year there will be increases in the untaxable part of workers, and that some, tax reliefs have an adverse impact on the budget of local self-government units. I'm convinced that a billion and 50 million kuna won't be enough and that's why I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4559	Please, who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thanks, he didn't get the need for most of it. Amendment of the 18th Representative of Antun Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4560	He has already been practically explained in Amendment 16. IDS representative club. It is about construction and equipment of the Rijeka Gat border crossing in Pula, only it is a different amount. This is where the IDS Club asked for a million, and the representative of Peru is asking for 3 million. However, we remain with the same, that it is secured for the contracted business of 324 thousand kuna, and for this second recovery is the competent port administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4561	Hey, buddy Peru, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4562	Let me get this straight. It is the only place in the port of Pula where ships of international transport agree, where customs controls are carried out and where the crossing of the state border is carried out. The practice we've had so far to go to a partial recovery is only causing more and more damage. If not intervened, and the works are under way, there will indeed be further major damages and adverse consequences, and these funds, which the minister said, of 324 kuna, 324 thousand kunas in no way can prevent further damages and adverse consequences, which is harmful for both the City of Pula and the Port Authority, but also for the state of Croatia and I ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4563	Thank you. Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4564	The government doesn't accept for a reason...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4565	Let me just tell the counsel. Mr. Arlovic, Gavran, Ljubice Brdovic, Željka Antunović and Ljubice Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4566	The government doesn't accept for two reasons. For one reason we hope that these funds will be sufficient, and another reason, I think we need to insist more that in cooperation with local self-government and regional self-government units, we go to the concept of ensuring agricultural crops. And last year, the units of local self-government that implemented the concept proved to be the most efficient and the best. Going to counter-defense at a time when the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina have not, has proved to be extremely inefficient over the past decades, so we believe that these funds are sufficient. And if, God forbid, there are major natural disasters, after all, that's why the law provides for current reserves.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4567	Representative Mato Raven, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4568	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I'm sorry the government is definitely giving up the fight defence system. Unfortunately, I have to defuse you. These funds are not enough for even the least damage coverage. I will only say that during the period from 97 to 2001 only in the area of Brod-Posavina County the damage on this basis amounted to around 173 million kuna, or an average of 34 million kuna per year. The entire system of defence against fighting in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is moving at around 22 million kuna, and the government is obviously planning only the damage compensation in this budget with 5 million and 600 million. Of course, as far as the Slavonia area is concerned, it is unacceptable. It is unacceptable, above all, that units of local self-government for this area do not have sufficient resources, and it is also an incorrect claim that all surrounding countries are giving up the anti-defense defense system. We, discussing these topics at the Brod-Posavina County Assembly, and also in other Slavonian counties have made a decision and asked the Government to support us in this, but it is obvious that this time this hearing is lagging behind. Of course, I appeal to representatives of Slavonia to support this amendment and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4569	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 20th Amendment of the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4570	The same explanation as for Amendment 19. The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4571	A representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4572	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4573	... Lalic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4574	Mr. Secretary. We're not satisfied with the explanation. We are not satisfied with the following reasons because this amendment was based on the existing law, the applicable law, the Law on the Defence of Fight System, which sets out in its article 13 exactly the means of financing, and says: "20% of the funding provided for by the state budget in the aid position to remove the consequences of the elemental disasters". However, I do not understand that the executive authority does not want to provide funds for a law that is valid and applicable. You explained here that the system of defense against fighting is ineffective. This has not been verified and this is not a proven claim because the coordination of the mayors of Slavonia and Baranja has clearly concluded that the fight is a terrible problem and terrible damage to Croatia and has drawn parallels to what it was when the system worked. But lately, this system hasn't worked, it hasn't worked because the director, Mr. Gello, represents a very different attitude. However, the rejection of this amendment is harmful, especially for Slavonia, because the biggest damage is done there, but it is also harmful for the workers of Đura Djakovic, whom we took away the wagons, and we will now take away their anti-struction missiles. So we carry a very bad and very ugly message to both workers and Slavs. This amendment is somewhat smaller than the previous amendment, so I am sure, right now because of the reduced amount that all representatives from Slavonia will vote in favour of this amendment and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4575	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 21 by Mate Gavran and Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4576	Amendment 21 and a series of next amendments to come, Mr. President, allow me to give one general explanation. First, it is very interesting that all MPs who have brought these 34 amendments to, where they have asked for more resources to assist local self-government units, no one has proposed an amendment to two articles of the Law on the implementation of the budget that regulates it. Therefore, these are Articles 33 and 34. Article 33 is replaced by the following: The final draft law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia assumes the return of income tax instead of municipalities and cities in the area of special state care, the first, second, third group, and mountainous areas as well as the county, for taxpayers of all areas, while Article 34 of the Law, according to the prescribed criteria, provides ongoing aid from the state budget as the difference between the prescribed criteria and the return of income tax to municipalities and cities. These are, therefore, two articles of the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget which regulate it. And I'm saying, it's very interesting that there was no amendment on those two articles. Now, if we stick to these articles proposed in the Budgetary Law, then it is practically impossible to implement these amendments. But here, for example, the 21st Amendment made in 2003 to help the city of Ilock was 3 million 121 thousand and 823 kuna. According to the Budget Proposal this year, it's 3 million 603 thousand 424 kuna or 15% more. According to the Tax Administration's estimates, the income tax return this year for the City of Ilock will be a million 655 thousand kuna and 364, and so when you subtract from these 3 million 600, million and 655, it is proposed that the city of Ilock this year be made available to millions of 948 thousand and 60 kuna. And let me tell you how good and positive and much better this legal provision is than what was best so far you can ask mayors and mayors from the area of special state care, the first, second and third groups that last year were in the 6th, 7th and 8th month when the return of taxes on incomes was 80% practically blocked by two three months because income tax returns were practically eaten by all the money from the jury accounts. Thus, such a proposal by the Government provided funds in total to all units of local self-government in the area of special state care, first, second and third groups and mountainous mountain areas up to 7.45% more than it was done last year, but I say we had to comply with Articles 33 and 34. This part of the return on income tax, which will come directly from the state budget this year, rather than from the budget of those units of local self-government, shall be implemented by the law on the implementation of the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4577	Thank you, Agent Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4578	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, we appreciate the efforts this government is making to help the units in the field of special state care, but our assessment of these funds that are planned is not enough, so for these reasons we go with these amendments. In particular, respecting the fact that these two cities of Ilock and Vukovar are severely destroyed in the Homeland War, the social situation is very difficult to believe that such assistance is necessary in this amount for faster reintegration and return or for the achievement of other parts of Croatia in any other sense. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4579	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 22 by Mr Mate Brletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4580	The same explanation is just a different amount, so I would just like to say that it is not at all controversial, is not so insensitive that it thinks that these cities should not be more funds, however, very interesting that last year it could not have been provided and this year, when it has provided 8% of the larger funds even now this year, these larger funds are not enough. Perhaps if last year it had been provided then the basis for indexing funds this year would have been higher than last year, and from that basis these cities would have been given more funds. NO, we can when we are in opposition to asking for 100% higher funds, which is the right, but I say the basis for this execution in 2003, therefore, according to the available resources and budget expenditure, has been provided for this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4581	Here you go, pal Brletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4582	I agree with Mr. Secretary Shucker's explanation, and I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4583	Thank you. Amendment of the 23rd Representatives Marija Lugaric and Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4584	The same is required for an increase, practically the same explanation as for the previous one, that it is not clear to me that we have not seen from the amendments to the Vrbovac city of which he would fall into a group of cities that need help, because then we are creating one of Pandora's boxes of all other units of local self-administers that are outside of this system currently providing funds from the budget, but I would like to say something this is just a transfer to local self-government units, but when you look through other ministries, you will see how much funds are transferred to local self-government units through co-financing of certain projects in culture and in municipal infrastructure. So these are transfers of funds exclusively to help local self-government units, the government can't accept this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4585	Representative Marija Lugarić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4586	Namely, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. The town of Vrbovec has exceptional problems in providing funds and financing of activities for which it is legally responsible is the particular problem that the economy is falling there, the PIK problem of Vrbovac, which we cannot deny and the share of the state, PIK Vrbovac is in great difficulty, does not reconcile his obligations to city utility companies, that he pays them a municipal fee, etc., the city also has a obligation to repay credit. I must say that the city has made efforts to secure land for the construction of an entrepreneurial zone, which is also of interest for entrepreneurs from Vrbovac, Zagreb and abroad, however, the city does not have enough resources to bring in municipal infrastructure to create preconditions for the arrival of potential entrepreneurs and the construction of business and production facilities. For this reason, I and other MPs, at least this opposition section that was in the second constituency, have proposed to provide funds of only 750 thousand kuna, to help the town of Vrbovac, but I must say that after the representatives of the post had not voted in favour of the city of Vukovar and Ilock that I have absolutely no illusions that they would vote for the help of the town of Vrbovac but I would like it to be supported by at least the representatives of Zagreb County and other constituencies because they advocated the same thing as I and the other representatives in the election campaign themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4587	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. It also consummated a representative, and amendment number 24. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4588	Well, I'd just like to say, given the explanation of Ms. Prosecution, that it would be good if we invited the PIK Vrbovac administration to give its one-month managerial contract to help the town of Vrbovac and that would solve this without a problem of these 750 thousand kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4589	I thank the ministers. Amendment 25. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4590	It is also not accepted for the above reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4591	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I have already said in my explanation why I ask that the city of Petrinja be given half as much as last year. Namely, the city is one of the most destroyed by the city of Vukovar in the Homeland War has a very fallen economy and should help the city to get on its feet in some way. I can only point out that in reading the budget for this year, I saw that in the area of special state care in Sisak-Moslavina County you gave to all cities and municipalities half as much as last year, so I see no reason not to give the city of Petrinja half the amount proposed this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4592	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4593	Last year, the city of Petrinja received 3 million 277 thousand kuna, this year 3 million 969 thousand kuna was proposed, however, a return of taxes that this year will go from the state register is 10 million and 22 thousand kuna, which is for 6 million more than the intended funds without such a provision of the law then that return would go from the budget of the city of Petrinja and from that basis the city of Petrinja would then receive 6 million less funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4594	Am I voting on this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 26th Representative Marija Lugarić and Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4595	The government does not accept for the simple reason that last year's budget, i.e. 155,000 kuna, this year's budget envisions 165 thousand kuna, and according to tax administration estimates, the return of taxes to the areas of the town of Daruvar will be 427 thousand kuna. So the town of Daruvar is simply by the state taking back taxes to get 262 thousand kuna more than anticipated.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4596	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4597	Namely, by submitting this and some other amendments, I am making my commitment to the citizens and citizens of the town of Daruvar and this part of the Bjelovar-Bilogian County that I have here as their representative, they have just proposed to give this amendment with just this kind of amount, and in this sense, citizens living in the city of Daruvar disagree with the explanation of Minister Shuker, and in particular it is necessary to resuscitate the municipal infrastructure, given that it is also an area of special state concern that is burdened with the return of returnees and the provision of general living conditions. And I would once again ask and appeal to representatives from another constituency, especially the Bjelovar-Bilogor County, who were in the campaign as I was in Daruvar, and promised this in a campaign to the citizens and citizens of the town of Daruvar to support this amendment. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4598	I am voting on this amendment. Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. [[Intruder: Jandroković]] Amendment 27 of the same MPs and MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4599	The same argument by the government does not accept that the return by a million and 792 thousand kuna is greater than is foreseen by the Budget and what was executed last year. Mršić's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4600	So I would ask, however, that the Government accepts this amendment since the City of Grubisno is indeed in a very complex situation with a very large number of unemployed, with a small number of highly educated and this would help them to launch some projects that are planned to encourage entrepreneurship, from a new entrepreneurial zone, and thus actually launch a new development cycle. Tax returns don't mean that much to them, it means a lot to them, but they simply don't have a place to charge the city's budget to make development projects because there are very few people who do have very small salaries, so they pay taxes at almost the lowest rates. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4601	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 28. Representatives Željko Pecek, Ljubica Lalić and Bozidar Pankretić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4602	The government does not accept the funds from last year's execution of 10%. Voč's tax return is projected to be 342,000 kuna in the municipality, and it reduces the estimated amount of 753,000 kuna for this year so that 411 thousand kuna is proposed, but I note that this is 10% more than last year's execution.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4603	Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4604	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, I ask you once again to consider this proposal for a symbolic increase in the budget in the form of a transfer to the Vočin municipality and it is not good when you work parallel between tax returns because it is an area of special state concern which unfortunately is still broken down by a large number of unemployed according to which there are no capital transfers. So this is a donation, but this is also a capital transfer that would allow the hospital to end there. Unfortunately, for several thousand people, we still do not have basic health conditions in this area. So it's not very comparable when we talk about tax returns and when we talk about the total needs of these municipalities that we talked about just before and in which we will obviously talk further. It's not the law of connected vessels. Where there are capital transfers, I understand that we can explain it that way, but in the package, we need to think about whether the state is giving a transfer to raise health standards, so that something new might happen in employment or something like that. For all I've said, please accept this amendment. It's not too much of a difference, and it will allow for the completion of objects that unfortunately aren't finished there yet, which they should have. I note, be finished at least a few years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4605	I am voting on this amendment. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 29. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4606	The government does not accept for the same reasons as said in previous amendments, but I would like to say that this year's assessment that the total in the areas of special state care will therefore be the first, second and third groups to return the tax 160 million kuna, and last year the grants were 127 million kuna. And if it wasn't for the amendment to this Act, then local self-government units from that area would be more likely to pay back than they were aware of last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4607	Representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4608	Dear Mr. Minister, I'm curious to know how much tax returns will be in Vocino, Škabrnja, Ceminac. I don't need to mention the condition these municipalities were in after the release of the great Serb aggressor. So talking casually about tax returns is one thing. We're interested in what tax returns are exactly in these municipalities, and how do we know that few employees are there, which is exactly why we're looking for these funds. I demand the vote, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4609	Please, who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 30 of the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4610	It is not accepted for the reason that 499 thousand and 799 kuna were known to the Upper Bobicians last year. This year, an increase of 47%, tax returns are expected non-pausal than according to the actual tax return data last year, is projected to be 261 thousand 566 kuna and it is proposed that this year the Upper Bobicians give 477 thousand kuna or only with this tax return or only 200 thousand kuna actually 20 thousand kuna less than it was last year. So the projected funds for the Upper Goddess were 47% higher this year than last year's execution.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4611	Representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4612	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister of the Municipality of Gornji Bogičevci is located in areas of special state concern and has been literally destroyed. After the renovation, however, they have houses but they have nothing else. If we take the percentage of employment, if we take the municipality's election income, then we'll see that it's really insufficient and we can't expect those who lived there to return to those places, and God forbid someone to come to the side. But if the belief of this government is that these areas of special state care with a tax refund is enough, then here I call you all together on behalf of these municipalities in the field of state care, come and live with us, to see how nice it is. And I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4613	I am voting on this amendment. Thank you. He didn't make it. 21st, 31st of the same, Club of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4614	Same thing, Old Gradiška. Last year, therefore, the same municipality of Stara Gradiška was in the area of special state care and probably more difficult conditions than this year. 748 thousand kuna executed. This year, 798 thousand kunas are scheduled. Tax refund 447. It's up to 350. But I'm saying the Old City municipality was in the area of special state interest last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4615	Representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4616	I'm not satisfied with the explanation, Mr. Minister was also in the area of special state care last year and the residents are returning, but they are not returning for employment but are returning to their homes. We have not provided them with employment, and if the population increases there and needs increase. So just an example for Mr. Minister's sake to tell you that children from the first grade of elementary school from Stara Gradiška go to school in Okucane so try to send your 7-year-old kid to take you on a bus for 17 kilometers, wait a few hours at bus stops by snow, ice and rain, and you'll see how we enjoy it there in areas of special state concern and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4617	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 32st Zdenka Chuhil.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4618	The municipality of Glovac last year, a million 173 thousand kuna, this year proposed a million 572, so 34% increase in taxes of 485 thousand kuna. A proposal to make the donation a million and 86 thousand kuna. So according to the possibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4619	Representative Zdenka Chuhil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4620	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. In fact, this amendment covers two cities and five municipalities, which in the field of special care and indeed lagging behind the development of municipal infrastructure, then the state of the economy in any case requires far greater funds to create preconditions for potential investment and job creation. Let us not forget that the number of unemployed is far above the average of the Republic of Croatia. And what are salaries and what is the economy, best says these items of tax return that you are talking about here when for a city like Daruvar tax return is 427 thousand, that is, if we take one municipality of Giulovac that you mentioned here, if it's a refund of 400 thousand, then it's certainly not enough to monitor all infrastructures and create exactly those pre-conditions that will create the necessary places for those areas to actually settle back today. Similarly, let us not forget that in these areas it is settled that the Janjevac, a citizen from Bosnia and Herzegovina who today is unemployed, are literally living on welfare. Therefore, we will still have to give out for social assistance unless we create conditions for creating new jobs and for people to start working from their work. I'm looking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4621	Thank you, please. Who is for this amendment, which the government does not accept? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 33. Marija Lugarić and Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4622	The government does not accept for the same reasons as Amendment 32.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4623	In short, we have already voted on this, I fully agree with my colleague Chuhnil, but since we have already voted, I have no illusions that after HDZ representatives have not supported Vukovar or Ilock or Vrbovac or other cities that they will help and the Djulovac municipality, since it is especially because it is relatively small means, much smaller than the national team is here in the Croatian Parliament, but I am still asking for another vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4624	Please. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't make it. It also consumed Amendment 34, as it relates to the same municipality and to the same amount. Amendment of 35th Representatives Mate Gavran and Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4625	The government does not accept for the reasons that these units of local self-government listed here have been increased grants compared to last year from 20% to 64%. So we're talking about the execution last year, because that's the basis for providing funds in the budget this year. Therefore, the government cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4626	Representative Mato Raven, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4627	Thank you very much. Well, after all these previous amendments, I'm not surprised at the deduction of this amendment. For all 55 units of local self-government located in areas of special state concern, the government planned 26 million kuna. And I'm going to take an example for the Erdut municipality of only 5,000 kuna. This best speaks about access to problem-solving in areas of special state concern. I'll say that this year's team has increased 20%, and you here, Mr. Minister, are talking about increasing tax returns, so that's enough of course with these modest funds that you planned in the budget for a smooth life and the work of units of local self-government. Of course, in the past, tax returns have been made to these units that we're talking about. I can conclude that you too are well aware that tax returns are the result of increased development opportunities, which is obviously a product of investment by the former government in areas of special state concern. I want to believe and believe that this government will continue more intensively, but give it to parts of you to confirm. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4628	Please. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 36. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4629	The Dvor municipality also envisioned this year 7% more than last year. I would like to say purely for the sake of the Croatian public, the return of income tax was made last year with a jury account of local self-government units. And by returning taxes this year from the state budget is a direct grant to those units of local self-government. and will be able to function normally and regularly, will not be blocked as they were blocked last year and all their activities have been frozen for three months, and with all the interventions to the Ministry of Finance, the representatives did nothing to help us, ask the mayors and mayors of Croatia's Kostajnica, Castle and these cities and municipalities that you are now talking about as they worked, worked last year. This is practically a model that allows them to function normally. Not to be three months when the largest activities in local self-government units are around and the arrangements of municipal and others to block their gyro-account and that they can't do anything. So this year's funding for local self-government units is 8% higher, and even when it adds a return that is 36 million more, by 24 million than the projected funds, then those funds are far higher compared to last year. But I say we all forgot the mayor's and the mayor's interventions last year against all MPs no matter what political party they belonged to, about helping them, to allow them not to be blocked by the jury accounts, which they were blocked in the 7th and 8th months. And then there was a solo solution for 2004 that the tax return would come from the state budget, not from their giro-accounts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4630	Thank you. Representative of the Herami, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4631	Dear Mr. President, dear Minister. It is these arguments that you have now heard that would not be on this very example of the municipality of Dvor, that would not have found a good place, for example, in the municipality of Dvor. The municipality of Dvor is also a municipality of special state care, the area is one of the largest in Croatia, has an area of 507 square kilometers, has 5700 inhabitants, and only 290 inhabitants are employed. Therefore, the return on income tax will be very low, given the number of employees in that municipality. It should be said that there are no land books in this municipality that disappeared during the Homeland War, that they are not being renewed, that this is the main obstacle that there is no foreign investment, which there is no investment in that municipality at all. And by leaving foreign humanitarian organisations that are renovating infrastructure by means of their resources in the municipality, this small amount of funds will exceed and disappear. One third of the settlements in the municipality of Dvor still lacks electricity. Therefore, these are all the problems that prevent the return of the population to that community and the return of all those who would want it, and for objective reasons they are not able to do so. And to give that municipality a swing, it takes what we have proposed to increase in the state budget. Those funds the government predicted, unfortunately..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4632	Do you want to vote on your colleague?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4633	...enough, barely enough to cover the salaries of municipal officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4634	Would you like a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4635	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4636	Please. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 37th Representatives Marija Lugrić and Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4637	The government doesn't accept. I would just like to clarify our income tax is paid according to the place of residence, not the place of employment. Therefore, comparing the number of employees with the tax return is something that is impossible and, for example, in the municipality of Velika Grđevac where the tax return of one million kuna was made last year, 408 thousand kuna was made and this year 531 thousand kuna or 30% more than it was last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4638	Representative Mršić, go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4639	I agree with the minister that it is good that this year the state budget returns income tax to local self-government units because they essentially spent that money in the previous year and would indeed be in big trouble that they have to pay back now, so it will probably be the ones that are not the area of special state concern. But it is therefore about municipalities that have problems and this problem of development and infrastructure problem, and we think that not only from the basic return of income tax but from the basis of allowing for the resolution of fundamental infrastructure issues, and this is about building a secondary network of waterways, it should be possible for citizens in Big Gredevec to have a satisfactory or somewhat low quality of life that they do not have, and then submerged some of the people who have not yet returned to return to those areas. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4640	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 38 of the same MPs and MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4641	The same reasoning as in the previous amendment is not accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4642	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4643	Not to repeat everything that Mršić said earlier. And for the municipality of Big Gredz, which we just voted out and this municipality of Velika Pisanica and which follows the municipality of... We're asking to add 400,000 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I really don't understand representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament who will vote to spend exactly that amount on the team at one anniversary of the Supreme Court, cannot be donated to the municipality in the area of the Commercial Court, and cannot be given to municipalities in areas of special state concern. That's why I'm asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4644	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 39 of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4645	The government does not accept for the same reasons as in the previous 33rd amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4646	Representative Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4647	For the same reason, we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4648	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment to the 40th Councilwoman, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4649	The government does not accept for reasons why funds are secured at the level of last year's collateral assets and since no new decentralised functions are foreseen.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4650	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4651	It is about Krapina-Zagorje County, which has as many as 13 units of local self-government that have lower fiscal incomes than that of a county that also has low fiscal incomes. They planned to improve municipal infrastructure in these municipalities, pave the way for unclassified roads, for projects for Zabok-Krapino roads, as well as for the Mihovljan-Golubec water supply system for the area of the town of Pregrada. Since this budget reduces funding for the HBOR and for the Regional Development Fund, of course, it will also be missed because they were funds that monitored municipal affairs in municipalities and counties. I'd say if we cut travel expenses, for the team, for fees, we'd certainly find funds for these counties to increase their transfers. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4652	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He's not accepted. This includes amendments 41 and 42, as they relate to the same amount and to the same unit. Amendment 43 of Alenka Košisa-Cicchin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4653	The government does not accept the part of the reasoning that went with these assistance to cities and municipalities, so it is part of the return because it is included in the transfer towards the county and the second part is in Sisak-Moslavina County for not increasing the volume of decentralised functions in 2004. So they're consistent with that cost index, the expense side of the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4654	Thank you. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4655	I'm very sorry, Mr. Schucker, that you don't exactly accept that amendment since you're in front of you. election units when we were in the pre-election campaign just increased the development of the economy and better standards for all residents of Sisak-Moslavina County. A large number of units of local self-government are making original revenues in that county just below 75% and we know that state budget assistance is being used precisely to develop infrastructure and economy and other such functions. As you know, we are everyday participants and we hear about how citizens living in Zagreb have different and much better conditions for development than citizens living in Sisak-Moslavina because there is gross national income in the city of Zagreb 19 thousand dollars a year and in Sisak-Moslavina all thousand dollars. So let's be honest, let's vote for this amendment, make people a better opportunity to develop and give them a better chance. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4656	Thank you. I am voting on this amendment. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fellow Members and colleagues, our work today will be partially followed by students of the "Mio Mirković" School of Economics from Rijeka, and we welcome them. Amendment 44 MPs Ljubica Lalić, Bozidar Pankretić and Željko Pecek. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4657	So, most of the reasoning as well as the amendment 43, but I'd just like to add one thing. Sisak-Moslavina County was in the same conditions last year as this year and funds secured this year compared to last year have been increased. Therefore, since the economy reportedly worked well last year then it is expected that these funds are sufficient this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4658	Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4659	I don't know if Mr. Minister made a mistake because he was talking about Sisak-Moslavina, this is the amendment of Zagreb County, the county from which you ministers come. I expected that there was finally one amendment that would surely be accepted. Therefore, I believe that this amount that is known for what reasons because I do not particularly want to explain to you that part of the funds that is certainly necessary for Zagreb County because it is the only one of the counties or very rare that is not included in the other aids of the county, so it is not an increase of funds but a part that would be necessary for Zagreb County, for its of course needs that you agree with me. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4660	The speaker doesn't understand because of the noise.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4661	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 45 by Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4662	The government does not accept it but in the 2nd or 3rd amendment there were talks on raising funds for decentralised functions compared to the execution last year, so last year there were 900 million kunas. This year, these funds have been increased by 150 million kuna. It is proposed to increase to a billion and 500 thousand kuna that the government did not accept with the previous amendment. Thus, the basis of this debate over these other increases, which relate to the increase of decentralised funds, funds for decentralised functions to billions and 500 kuna, then becomes a groundless debate and the increase of these funds for the Koprivnica-Crysing County because they are tied to the bar according to this as the amendment to the increase of these funds from a billion and 50 to a billion and 500 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4663	Representative Mršić, go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4664	But fellow Shuker, you said there were 150 million more in decentralised functions. So these 4 million and 100 thousand kunas I'm looking for for the Koprivnica-Crysing County are in the 150 million that we're talking about. I ask to vote on this, especially because it is a county that, from which more than 2 billion kunas of tax revenue are collected annually and has certain problems in decentralised functions especially in primary school because there are over 50 primary schools from which they are all from the end of II. World War II and needs to meet the needs of citizens in small municipalities and local committees that have few residents and cannot come from the tax revenues of the county, nor can the county achieve what citizens expect. And I repeat, the state annually collects more than 2 billion kuna tax revenues in that county. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4665	Who's in favor of this adjective? Thank you. He didn't make it. Amendment 46 of Agent Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4666	It is similar to the previous amendment and it is the same reasons, the government does not accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4667	Agent Kolar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4668	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. So I'd like to try to explain and I think we already know that under 75% of the county budget, income per capita in Koprivnica-križevci County is generated by 14 units of local administration and self-government. And I will list them to remember the bar, that it is St. Peter Orehovec, St. John Žarno, Rasinj, Sokol, Peteranac, Kalnik, Lebina, Gornja Rijeka, Djelekovec and Drnje. Otherwise, for aid, it should be an average of 4 million 486. We last year from our assets, so from the units, from the regional as a county granted help million and 400 thousand kuna, for capital donations or to help 5 million 110 341. However, these are all insufficient funds and this has led to an additional 3 million to simply cover these missing transfers because there is no justification there, because they are not units of special state concern and to get a refund. Well, here, just let it be written down. And one of my little remarks, nothing would happen if the representatives of that county raised their hands because of course there's not enough of us, you don't have to be afraid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4669	I am voting on this amendment that the government does not accept. Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of 47th Representative Željko Pecek, Ljubica Lalic, and Bozidar Pankretić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4670	The government does not accept the same reasoning as these two previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4671	Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4672	Thank you very much. So I don't know what the foothold is for the same reason because things are basically clear and things are mathematically familiar. If in the last year there were 4, million 137, then the number 2 million 999 212 is less than 4 million 137. Once again in principle, I would like to ask you, Mr. Minister. Please don't talk about how local self-government units actually get more than in the last year, anything about current aid but also capital aid. Because here in the national budget proposal for this year on page 5 under positions that are currently concerned with current capital aids 36 31 and 36 32 when we add up last year, it was 4 billion 32 million kuna and in the proposal of this budget that is 3 billion 354 million kuna. Thus, simple mathematics says 650 million kuna less, both for which municipality, county or city. And on the example of Virovitica County, it's quite clear. So last year there was a reliable 4 million and 100 and here in the proposal is less than no more. Math is always math. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4673	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of 48th legislator Mate Arlovic, Mate Gavran, Ljubice Lalić and Ljubice Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4674	The government does not accept for the same reasons as the previous arguments for cities and municipalities and this part of the reasons for the county, therefore as regards funds for decentralised functions and as regards the return of taxes from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4675	Representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4676	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, Mr. Government obviously remains on its trail, units of local self-government, i.e. regional self-government remains to be managed in a manner known only to them. Of course, in this amendment, we have taken into account the fact that the budget is as it is and that we have reduced the originally planned funds by 9 million and 664 thousand kuna as planned for 2003 from this basis was planned for the area of Brod-Posavina County. Unfortunately, we did not expect that everything with 47% will be respected in the final draft budget that has created for us in the area of Brod-Posavina County and will create huge problems. Namely, a few data only is sufficient, according to the 2001 income data, the Brod-Posavia County is convincingly located in the last place in the Republic of Croatia, all with 717 kuna. In 2001, the city of Zagreb had 4000 314 kuna. If we take into account that the economy in the area of Brod-Posavina County is constantly falling thanks to this, I fear the government's plan because the fate of Djura Djakovic is from toolbox to special vehicles more than questionable, I fear that this gap will be even greater. He's staying with us. Here, let me just say, and I'm asking for a vote, of course. [[Agreement: A colleague you want a vote?...]] [[Don't, don't.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4677	Quiet. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. It also consumed Amendment 49. Amendment 50. Representatives Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4678	The government does not accept for the same reasons as the previous amadenams. And for the reason that part of the return on income tax for Zadar County relating to income tax paid by cities in the area of special state care is returned from an expensive budget. And with that basis is reduced part of the donations to Zadar County. And also these decentralised functions this year have not been increased compared to last year. So the funds are slightly larger than they were planned last year. Actually, it was done last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4679	Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4680	Not only am I not accepting an explanation, it's not exactly an explanation. Because these funds are now approved for reductions compared to last year. And when the government of Ivica Racan approved these funds here, while he was a gentleman, here was my colleague here, Mr. Prtvenjaca, while he was, he was mayor four times the means. Therefore, with such an explanation as you have given and for the previous so and this cannot at all be taken under my amendment and explanation because it is necessary, I think it is too much to explain that Zadar County, as Zadar County has suffered, some houses have been restored, life has stopped. Therefore, in order to start a life, it is necessary to provide at least funds at the level of last year to finance and to request a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4681	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 51st representative of William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4682	The government doesn't accept. With the same explanation as for previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4683	Here you go, pal Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4684	This amendment is about a proposal for the establishment of an Agro Bank based in Osijek. Agro banks which should be investment orientations, not commercial ones, which should be a bank of course domestically or predominantly in the local ownership of those that would be focused on the development of agrarians. Of course, small and medium protégé. But here I am now breaking up to make some serious arguments, a turnout probably as funny as all the other MPs. There's no Prime Minister Sanader to remind me just for a moment that he's in the government program of 23. The 12th just now Agro Bank was presented as one of the important projects. So, I'd like to ask President Sabor Seks as another HDZ man because there is no Prime Minister Sanader to encourage Slavonic MPs and so encouraged Slavonic MPs also have a tired Slavonia. Here we are actually implementing a project that is in the government's programme and is undoubtedly really important for the development of Slavonia and Baranja. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4685	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept. He didn't get enough votes. 52 MPs, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4686	The government does not accept the amendment because decentralised functions have not been increased, funds are much bigger when aces look at the global than last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4687	Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4688	I had no doubt he would be accepted, but our county was halved by this transfer compared to the 2003 budget. I will repeat that it is a county with a labour intensive industry that is lowly profitable with the lowest salaries of all the counties in Croatia. If the costs for the team were to increase less, for the fees, for the official travels which in this budget increased by nearly half a billion kuna earlier, then these 550,000 kunas would surely be found that the inter-minor county could only receive 2 and a half million kuna transfers. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4689	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 53 representatives of Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4690	Same name as 52. Very similar. And that's the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4691	I know that's why I was in a hurry. I'm suggesting they keep the funds at approximately the level that we were last year. Because I don't think there's any reason for them to shrink. They're now dimmed to something below 2 million kuna. That's what happened to all the county. The total funds were halved last year by these turrets were transferred to the counties by 80 million kunas this year, 40 million kuna. I think we need to think about those municipalities and cities that are not therefore under special public care and that they also have certain needs. As regards further arguments for our county, only to mention the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia, which is an average per capita of about $6,000 and $300 that it is $4000 and $100 in Međimurje. But, for example, is in Zagreb more than 19 thousand dollars. With this redistribution of budgets, I don't think we can come to the even development of the Republic of Croatia which I think we need as well. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4692	Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Amendment 54 MPs Zvonimir Mršić and Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4693	The government doesn't accept. And although I come from that county, fortunately, Zagreb County is not in those criteria that you could get help from this position. It is fortunately the inhabitants of Zagreb County.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4694	Representative Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4695	I would just like to warn that the counties that are not in the area of special state care in this state budget are getting less money because these counties and these municipalities and cities are one-on-one refunded income tax. It is up to this county that refers to Koprivnica Crossing County. And I don't see any rational reasons why these counties are reducing donations compared to the previous year. Because the extent of decentralised functions remained the same. Although we all promised to increase the decentralisation of the state and to transfer even more functions decentralised to municipalities and cities. Obviously, it won't be this year. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4696	Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Amendment 55 of Biserka Perman's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4697	The government does not accept for a simple reason if we want a better and more efficient tax administration, then we need to secure funds. And that's the more that's left even in the legacy of a contract from the river that hasn't been paid. It's signed by very strange conditions for a building that hasn't been built yet as far as the Rijeka Tax Administration is concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4698	Here you go, Clegs Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4699	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. This amendment actually refers to a part of the funds needed to break down the Bakar coxary, which I will explain later when it comes to the order in more detail. And that's where I predicted a certain reduction would partly finance this decommissioning. I'm asking the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4700	Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Amendment 56 of MP Valter Drandic. Minister Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4701	Dear Mr. President, the interior ministry in the position of the payment card of the other services was planning only 21 million 534 thousand kuna and cannot accept the proposal of MP Valter Drandic. However, we cannot accept the proposal that the project programme implements special fire protection measures of 15 million be increased to 28 million because it has already increased in the interior ministry from last year's 10 million to 15 million, which means 50%. We can't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4702	Representative Drandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4703	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, here's the best I'd like to congratulate the government on this amendment where this item was paid by printers other services, reduced from 110 million to 21 and a half million on the occasion. I have proposed a reduction from 110 to 96 in order to target those funds in the programme of implementing specific fire protection measures. And if you allow only two words, this program was brought by the Government aRH on February 12th this year. We got him as agents as an info. It clearly states that the funds needed for its implementation are 28 million 875 thousand kuna. I gave this amendment to help the government implement its own programme. I think it's perfectly logical and correct. And that such an amendment should be respected by the government. The more you've reduced this item yourself, the more you've reduced this item to pay-per-view printers. So I think the best thing you could do to accept this amendment and that these funds are going to protect us from the fire is we especially know what kind of problem we have in the course of the tourist season, the fire season. I'm really asking you to think one more time and secure funds for your own program nothing else. And I think that this programme has accepted that I am now saying, and as deputy president of the Croatian Fire Department, all firefighters in Croatia, I think we should really respect this amendment. And Mr. President, I'm asking you, since I'm asking for a vote, the votes count that you're not just saying there's not enough votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4704	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. The amendment didn't go through, because when it's obvious to the Rules of Procedure that there aren't enough votes to pass the amendments, that's the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4705	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4706	Amendment 57 to Sima Lučina's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4707	In order to implement the Witness Protection Act, funds are provided, but their amount is not visible in the context of this budget, which is common in such types of expenditure and the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4708	There you go, buddy Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4709	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, a law has been passed in this House. If we begin to introduce practice in the Croatian Parliament to pass laws saying that applying these laws costs a certain amount of money, and if we cannot see in the budget what this amount of money is and what item we MPs in this House are, in fact, cheating on ourselves. I have to be honest. I expected this amendment to be adopted for several reasons. The first perhaps and most important reason why Prime Minister Sanader announced and issued a warrant to go into a decisive fight against crime. Without the Witness Protection Act, there is no effective fight against organised crime. You've cut the government's amendment to a pay-per-view printer with 100 and something million for 88 million. You switched this to fuel for material current costs, but then you could take another couple of million and make sure this bill works. You can tell me that it's in another item, but since the budget of the Ministry of Interior is lower by 150 million, all items are reduced, mostly everything and you don't really have anywhere to tell me that that money is there. Another thing I also wanted to say. With some kind of alchemic transfer from item to item nothing happens, so you solved the problem of overtime, you switched, you took their travel, police travel expenses and field work and you gave them overtime. I don't think we're gonna get anything like that. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4710	Please, who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of 58 MPs Marijan Jurjevic, Dragice Zgrebec and Jagode Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4711	The Ministry of Internal Affairs, with its professional service in the Department of Investments and Real Estate, determines the state of real estate and priorities within the framework of the insured funds, determines which buildings will go into construction, and the Korčula Police Station is one of them. The number of procedures on facilities is conditioned by priorities and means of security in the budget and the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4712	He's a colleague of Jurević's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4713	I can see that Marian Jurjevic was miswritten here, but I'm surprised my colleague Shex didn't remember my name was Marin Jurjevic, but good. So, Marin Jurjevic. I'm sorry that no amendment is accepted at least you're taking care of it, namely building a police station in Korčula. The Korčula police station is situated in a completely unconditional, unsuitable building, which also requires the return of property now and that building, therefore, is requested to return. It will be left without that building, the team is more questioned and it would be quite logical if you accepted this amendment. It is therefore an island, the town of Korčula, and in agreement with the local self-government unit in the production of project documentation, new documentation has been established, and in this year it is also expected that all the necessary construction documentation is made, and indeed, if what you say is true, take care of the priorities, etc. And there's no budget for me then it's unclear why you didn't accept it because it looks like we're gonna lose that station on Korčula. Here's the other day, my colleague Rebic was saying that it hit him hard when they ran out of stations in Vrlica, and here's what's going to happen in Korčula.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4714	I am voting on this amendment by Marin Jurjevic. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 59 representatives of Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4715	On the project a new ID card position 4221 office equipment and furniture cannot be proposed to reduce the amount of 12 million 640 thousand kuna to 5 million 640 kuna, as it is a payment of the loan, Mr. Representative, which in that amount comes for the purchase of equipment in your time and the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4716	Mr. Sime Luchin's representative, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4717	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4718	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 60 MPs Marin Jurjevic and Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4719	Jagoda Martic and Marina Jurjevic's proposal to include Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service with a million and 800 thousand kuna in the MUP budget is not accepted because it is an association of citizens and has established the way in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is requested to finance their activities every year. Law, Article 23. The Association Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4720	I'm sorry the government didn't accept this amendment. Namely, I come from Makarska, a town in which the mountain Biokovo lies, a mountain filled with its beauty, but also as full of dangers as in the far line and every other mountain, and therefore I know very well what the work of the mountain rescue service means, and in the extreme line how important it is for tourism activity. The fact is also that the Ministry of the Interior is the basis of the Internal Affairs Act as the founder of the intervention units of the mountain rescue service, and also this ministry, your ministry signed a long-term co-operation agreement on life-saving and life-saving operations. The fact is that if we look at and assess the dangers, the fact is that on a steady rise they are just on unaccessible terrains, meaning in areas where there can be no ambulance or firemen but the only unit of the mountain rescue service. Therefore, these funds are not large funds, millions and 800 thousand kuna. These resources would in some way provide as much normal work as the mountain rescue service. The fact that you said they were going after someone else, i.e. as citizens' associations, is that in the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, 710 thousand kunas were provided for this service. So again, I'm expressing regret, but it seems to me that this is all under the "dogs barking caravans" system today. I'm sorry the government didn't find any hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4721	Thank you. Please vote. The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 61 MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4722	The breach of fire and Polish roads in the municipality of Vir if it is located on state land, i.e. Croatian forests provide for this means, and if it is located on private agricultural land, then local self-government will provide for it. According to the commissioner, all these paths have been breached only needs to be maintained, so no major funds are needed and the amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4723	Dear representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4724	A bit of an odd explanation because this is exactly what the chief was looking for. So it's not true. You don't have to explain, but you have to tell the truth. You know? You don't have to accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4725	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4726	And soon summer will come, so if God doesn't let something happen there I'll remind you of that. [[Intruder: Clear.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4727	I'm putting the amendment to the vote. He didn't make it. Mr. Baby, please. Mr. Luka Baby, please take the presidency. Amendment of Representative Luke Roic, 62.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4728	That amendment has already been answered. With its professional service, i.e. the Department of Investments and Real Estates determines the conditions of real estate and priorities within the framework of the means of security, determines which buildings will go into construction, and the Korčula Police Station is one of them. The number of operations on objects is conditioned, we said, with established priorities, with selected funds and, and the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4729	Mr. Luka Roic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4730	Since it's practically already been this amendment to the debate, I think it's the same argument as before. The police station is in a real building that requires even a return and needs new funds to move into the construction of a new station, police stations in Korcula.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4731	Thank you very much. Is he retired? [[Intruder: Yes, it's already been voted.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4732	It's already been voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4733	It was a vote, thank you very much. The club of HSP representatives, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Madam Vice-President and Minister Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4734	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honors and the Lady of the HSP Club. The government will not accept this amendment at this time, but we will bear in mind the good intensity of this proposal and, possibly, during the year, consider your good intensity in this proposal. The planned amount of 650 million kuna is based on the implementation of the 2003 plan. As far as employment is concerned, we planned the same amount on the basis of the 2003 expenditure, as this obligation stems from the national employment programme. As for disability and family pensions, more than 2 billion 565 million are planned, which is 31.25% higher than the 2003 execution. As for the housing of people with disabilities from the Homeland War, which your amendment, worth 60 million kuna, is also at the level of execution for 2003. But I would also like to remind you that in the positions of the Ministry of Construction there is also an amount greater than 144 million kuna, also foreseen for the housing of disabled people from the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4735	Thank you. In the name of the club, Mr. Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4736	Well, the first thing I have to realize is that obviously, the government has not been very careful and carefully read the explanation of our amendment. Namely, the purpose of our amendment is double. The first purpose is to finally prevent illegal spending of the state budget and supplying the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 5 thousand and 100 people who receive pensions as Croatian military disabled. In fact, in 99 years, General Gotovina and I were able to determine that fact, and we came up with information that was not to be trusted. Of these 5 thousand and 100 who used and used today's military pensions, thousands and 2 generally did not have the status of Croatian defenders, and the rest did not have the status of Croatian wartime wartime disabled. Only on this basis, and if it is considered that in the group of pensioners, the increased pensions could not be increased, that the pension, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, from the budget, had both alimony and funds for those who had partly lost their workforce from civil life, the state budget had been damaged for approximately four years for approximately 2 billion kuna. That's a huge amount. And therefore, with infidelity, I must conclude that the Government obviously did not read this well, the argument, because if such a part continues, this means that the Government will continue to unlawfully refer to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. Another important thing is that we allow this amendment, so it is a redistribution of funds, that this year a new Law on Croatian defenders and that it is effective. I'm giving you one more chance to think carefully about this amendment of ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4737	Thank you. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4738	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Of course, we will think about it as you know, and I believe that there will be a proposal at the next session of the Croatian Parliament that we have talked about a lot and here in the Assembly about the amendments and addition of the existing Law, related to translation. And of course, there is a new Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. So, I repeat, over the year, the government will take great care of your proposal, i.e. the data that you have presented and the intensity of this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4739	We give you a chance and then we withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4740	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4741	Thank you very much. Ms. Anticevic-Marinovic has a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4742	Article 68(3), which reads as follows: "After the applicant's statement of individual amendment, only the applicant for the amendment may refer to the applicant. [[You can't hear the speaker away from the microphone.]] So the Proposer has no right anymore. The applicant, the word of the applicant of the amendment, is the last. Several times it happened here, however, as it escalates, here I was forced to react in this way. Please, Mr. Vice President...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4743	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4744	...that it doesn't happen again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4745	Thank you. He's absolutely right, that's Article 168(3). So we'll try not to do it again. Did you withdraw the amendment? The amendment has been withdrawn. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Thank you very much. Representative Ivica Pancic, 64th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4746	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The government does not accept this amendment because this is about hiring Croatian defenders. The amount planned here is at the level, i.e. based on the implementation of the budget, i.e. expenditure for this activity in 2003, because these obligations stem from the national employment programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4747	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4748	I have to say, I'm a little surprised. When I saw the budget, the same item from last year, knowing that the Deputy Prime Minister had just said that one of the new government's priorities would be to hire Croatian defenders. In these four years, the number of unemployed Croatian defenders has been reduced from 35 to about 27 thousand. So there are about 27 thousand unemployed Croatian defenders left, but harder cases because almost 2/3 of them have less than medium professional facilities. So I assumed because the measures showed a good impact, about 2,000 people were being employed or sent to requalifications where the diseases of the administration were resolved and I expected that this year the government might be more ambitious in solving this problem. But here, too, it has proved to be easier to talk and promise to Croatian defenders than to provide the necessary resources and problems to solve. Or maybe there's a willingness in HDZ to solve this problem, but maybe your coalition partners don't agree. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4749	Thank you very much. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? He didn't get the required majority, he wasn't accepted. Number 65. It's a club of representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4750	In no case can the government accept such a dedicated amendment, because the Club of Representatives of LIBRE proposes a full suspension of maternity benefits, hence the compensation for mothers, birth benefits, I think it is totally unacceptable to be absolutely safe for all MPs and for the Government certainly not. And the Club of Representatives of the LIBRE also proposes to abolish the heavily-elected Alimentary Fund in the positions of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. For these positions, the Club of Representatives of the LIBRE proposes to reduce the funds planned by the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, therefore it is totally unacceptable for us, so the government does not accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4751	Thank you very much. Here's a representative of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4752	Mr. Vice President, Madam Vice President, first of all, the correction of the incorrect allegations. The club LIBRE does not propose a complete elimination of maternity benefits, but only additional maternity benefits of 400 million kuna. As far as the project "New School" is concerned, it is only to say that it is a project that provides for a five-year course to be introduced in all primary schools of the Republic of Croatia that should cost around 10 billion kuna, and of course it is high time to start this project, because raising the quality of primary school at the same time means raising the quality of education in general, higher education and secondary education. Equally the dispensation of parents who work, especially women, in order to achieve this project we suggest that additional maternity leave be abolished whose consequences, i.e. effects in terms of demographic renewal, are very questionable and bring the mother into an unequal position in relation to men in the world of work and entrepreneurship. Similarly, we propose to abolish an alimony fund that has not yet been established under our laws because this fund will foster irresponsible parenting rather than create responsibility for everyone for what they do in society and weaken the state, we in this way encourage irresponsible parenting and strengthen the state. So, Mr. Vice President, we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4753	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 66. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4754	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the government does not accept this amendment, as the planned funding of a billion 539 million 699 thousand 493 kuna is planned on the execution data for 2003. And for the estimated number of users in terms of property censorship, it's about extra charge for children we've been looking for very precise data and based on all the precise data we've come to this amount. In fact, it is clear that the debate on this amendment should also remind the fact that the number of children is unfortunately reduced, that the number of children has been reduced, and therefore, on the basis of the implementation data for 2003, funds for the payment of the child's allowance have been planned. Of course, if there was any shortage in these items, the government would react in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4755	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Mr. MP Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4756	I must express my regret that this government is indeed in an inappropriate place of savings, 70 million kuna for a child's allowance that represents in all countries one of the most important or most valuable forms of support for the family, especially in our circumstances when unemployed parents have been given the right and often the only source of income. The budget cuts are not in this case $70 million, and your calculations are guilty, a billion and 700 million were planned and the execution was a billion and 600 million, exactly as much as we ask. Unfortunately, we must expect more unemployed people, we must expect more children, given the projections arising from this budget, the coverage of those who need to be admitted will not be reduced but will increase. Even if there were fewer children, it would be good to think about changing the censorship because he hasn't changed in two years and at least keep that amount of compensation for the child's allowance we've had so far. I think it's sad to save on children and ask for a vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4757	Thank you very much. I put to vote amendments 66 that the government does not accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. Before we move to the 67th Amendment, our Croatian Parliament was visited by pupils of the primary school and the Međimurje County, the Donja Dubrava elementary school, and we welcome them. Amendment 67th Representative Marija Lugarić and representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4758	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The government does not accept this amendment, it is the funds for the Children's Council, I must also point out to the Ministry of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity that the planned amounts for this activity in 2004 are greater by 17.2% compared to the execution in 2003. Therefore, I think that MPs can be sure that all the activities of the Children's Council will not be met but also largely increased since I remind you that we have entered a major project and with the island of Obunjan, we are therefore planning to expand the activities and include in these activities and local administrations, but there are other ambitious plans that I cannot talk about at this point, but it is one major aid that I think you will be pleased with by the end of the year with the implementation of this plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4759	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4760	Namely, one is a declarative pawn and the other is a specific figure. The Children's Council in the 2004 budget was planned to amount to 331 thousand 872 kuna, last year there were 419 thousand 397 kuna, so almost 100 thousand kuna more and that's exactly what we stand for. So we're just asking for the amount to be returned to the level he's been to for the past year. The more the Deputy Prime Minister mentions new more ambitious plans, the greater the stakes, so it is quite unclear how the reduction in the amount of funds is brought into context with the increase in activity, and therefore we are just asking that these funds should not be increased, but at least to equalise themselves with the 2003 funds and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4761	Thank you very much. I am voting on this amendment that the government does not accept. Thank you very much for not getting the necessary majority. Also an amendment to the 68th Parliament of Mary Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4762	The government does not accept this amendment, it is about implementing a national programme of action for young people and this implementation of a national programme will be implemented within the framework of planned activities, monitoring and improving youth policy, for which the amount of one million and 200 thousand kuna is planned under Chapter 15 of the protection of families, motherhood and youth.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4763	Thank you very much. Representative Marija Lugarić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4764	At the very least, I'm surprised by Mrs. Minister, the vice-president of the government, that one great portfolio in which she swears not only her, but everyone here interprets it completely wrong and with considerable ignorance. The team more when we brought the National Youth Action Programme at the end of 2002 he was adopted unanimously in the Croatian Assembly means all representatives from HDZ to the SDP, and Mrs Kosor, who was then a representative, claimed to be necessary, that the programme was good but that funds were needed to be implemented. What you're talking about concerns individual, individual activities of the National Youth Action Programme and covers a small part of these activities. I would like to remind you that 110 activities in total and according to the plan of funds according to individual ministries in relation to individual activities under the programme should be provided significantly more than 5 million kuna proposed here, but since this amount, in last year's budget, was planned for the implementation of the National Youth Action Programme, I proposed this amendment. And I just want to say one more sentence, and I think that this amendment needs to be made quite clear, and once again it needs to be pointed out that it is not enough to say that we stand up for something, that we care about something, but that this should also be shown by voting and introducing certain items into the State budget because I am afraid that we will care and that we will not make any quality move and therefore ask for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4765	Thank you very much. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of Advocate Gordana Sobol number 69.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4766	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The government does not accept this amendment. It is about an amendment proposing a new subset, which would read: The creation of a national strategy to combat violence against women, amounting to 380 thousand kuna. The government is very sensitive to the problem of violence, and here I would like to warn you that in the budget for protection, or against domestic abuse, the planned funds in the amount of millions and 300 thousand kuna in the activities of protecting domestic abuse and, of course, within that amount, we will take great care of exactly what you are warning about, therefore, building a national strategy to combat violence against women. So it's going to be planned within these million and 300 thousand kunas. So please accept your explanation. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4767	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4768	So, I have to say that by what you are now through your reasoning you have essentially just kind of confirmed that this budget is absolutely non-transparent because I have also asked this question in the debate on the Budget and, of course, remains at the will of someone in the Government to determine what it is, what will be financed by these millions and 300 thousand kunas. I hope, among other things, that you will be able to finance, let's say, the "Step" Association from Karlovac, Mrs Sadika Zvirkic, unfortunately, has been trying to reach you and the Prime Minister for days, but it is not working. I will support that, however, as in my previous amendments, I have asked for concretely, clearly to indicate projects in the budget that will be financed, so I am asking this amendment and I am not giving it up. I would just like to say this in view of the fact that the rejected amendments are mine that referred to the Office for Gender Equality as regards individual activities on the team, in office positions, I will just say this to Mrs. Vice President you explained the other day which led to increased official travel. On these official trips, both you and the prime minister and everyone who goes around Europe and around the world will also have to answer questions about how and how gender equality is considered in Croatia. It must be considered in its fullness in the way it is written and in the National Strategy for the Promotion of Gender Equality. For all those who did not know, and perhaps you do not know that question, it is becoming a very high issue in those issues that we must meet if we want to join the European Union. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4769	Thank you very much. I put this amendment to a vote that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. It's not necessary, he didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Milanka Opačić, Amendment 70.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4770	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The government does not accept this amendment because the funds planned for additional maternity leave and equipment for a newborn child are sufficient. We've been taking good care of this item. We asked for precise calculations of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. These projections were made on the basis of the 1999 data and were, of course, done on the basis of the 2003 data. Therefore, the planned funds will be sufficient if the need of course is indicated that the government will react over the year, but I point out once again that we are returning a range of between a thousand and two-and-a-half thousand kuna for the working mothers. This can be seen in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget and we raise or return from, from nine hundred kuna to one thousand and six kuna compensation for unemployed mothers and here I can express once again the satisfaction that yesterday and was given support to the return of the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave for twin mothers, third and every subsequent child. Since the debate on the Budget was also highlighted, and that Mrs Opačić spoke about, or bound this amendment, and I can only say for myself on behalf of the Government and on behalf of the Ministry that the amendment had been delayed for at least 3 years. So we've come to the point where everything we've talked about over the amendments over the past few years is going back through the laws today and going back through the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4771	Thank you very much. Madam Representative Opacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4772	Well, what you just said, Madam Secretary, is only partially correct. Namely, yes, indeed, this is your amendment that you have repeatedly advocated for 3 years. The amendment, therefore, which is completely and in June prescribed, and I only copied it because I saw on this item an additional maternity leave and equipment for the newborn child you failed to win even more for the lip than last year's Budget. In fact, your amendment for three years literally reads as it says today that 400 million kunas are changing in terms of 740 million kunas and 600 thousand kunas. So I thought you were going to fight to increase this item against your amendment for three years. Since you have failed to do so, I hope that your colleagues today will support this amendment and help to carry out your consistency and consistency at last 3 years later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4773	Thank you very much. A vote is required. You're welcome to vote. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Also representative Milana, Milanka Opačić 71.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4774	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This amendment by Ms. Milanka Opačić refers to the Alimentation Fund. So for the first time, Croatia has the Ministry of Family, and for the first time in the State budget, we provide funds for the Alimentation Fund. The Alimentary Fund could be set up by the previous Government or could be set up by the Fund, it could provide for the budget for the Alimentation Fund but did not do so. This Government has both a strong sense and a sense of responsibility and when it comes to children to whom the Alimentary Fund would apply, or families to whom the Alimentary Fund’s funds would apply, or even the idea of the Fund. Therefore, we are pleased that we have managed to secure in this budget the initial 20 million kunas, these are not small funds, and therefore this amendment is also delayed for at least 3 years. We can't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4775	Here you go, Mrs. Opacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4776	So I have to say that I'm actually glad that you accepted the law that the SDP Club gave in the procedure some 20 days ago on the establishment of the Alimental Fund, and I'm glad that you are still implementing the national family policy passed by by the government, Prime Minister Ivica Racan. I'd just like to say that these 20 million kunas are the funds that we could hear in some of the arguments enough to get this fund started, so it's starting to work for the last three months of the year. We think that this fund could start working before, so we're looking for an increase in these funds. For the reason that, if you can give half a billion kuna in the budget for official travel and you as a representative of the government, but also a number of officials who have traveled the globe at least several times over the last 12 years, I think it would be more appropriate this time to direct some of the funds to the Alimentation Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4777	Thank you very much. Who is for this amendment, which the government does not accept? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Please. I would like to thank Mrs. Secretary. And please Mr. Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr. Vukelic. Amendment to the 72nd Representative, Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4778	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The government does not accept this amendment, namely, is about an amendment proposing to reduce the amount of subsidies to companies outside the public sector by 5 million and 600 thousand kuna. Since it is mandatory for both the Government and this Ministry to transfer funds, to have the funds used for industrial branches, textiles, chemical, mental-processing, to remove disorders or to encourage in, and to assist in these branches, this reduction would certainly not be in the direction of assistance that is necessary both for our text and for the meta-stimulating and other industries, i.e. companies from these branches of industry. So this amendment is not accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4779	Thank you. Mrs. Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4780	Mr Minister, given the fact that this amendment applies to this next one immediately behind it, i.e. also to the decommissioning of copper coke which stopped working 10 years ago and that the decommissioning and recovery at the end of the works provided for in this year is necessary, I am talking about both amendments necessary to avoid the suspension of works on the recovery of polluted terrain, and the reduction of the items in this section, the reduction of the items of the Ministry of Economy in order to obtain the required amount and I consider it realistic and justified to adopt it. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4781	Thank you very much. I put this amendment to a vote, which the government does not accept. Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. The same representative of the amendment to the 73rd Mrs. Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4782	As the honourable representative said, these are two related amendments. The government also does not accept this amendment relating to the increase in funds provided for in the further process of resuscitating Koksara copper. It is the government's desire and commitment and this ministry to end the recovery during this year. If the intended funds are not sufficient, the Government's decision or redistribution within the ministry will provide the funds necessary to complete that recovery. And with this position, we are now staying in the budget plan as planned. So, I appreciate the commitment of the distinguished MPs to wrap up this year's recovery, so that we can wrap this up. With these means we intend to lead this process in that direction. If there are any difficulties, then we will propose to the government or within the redistribution of funds within the ministry to settle the necessary funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4783	Thank you very much. Mrs. Perman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4784	I thank Mr. Minister for his good intentions, but if that is indeed so, I see no reason why these funds are not shown in the budget. So if they're too big, there's no problem pointing them in the other direction. Thank you very much. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4785	Who is for this amendment, which the government does not accept? Thank you very much. He didn't make it. He didn't get the necessary majority. 74. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4786	The government does not accept the amendment, because the draft budget provides for a proposal for these revenues and expenditures of the state budget and of all the funds such as the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute Fund, these amounts are provided and are provided for all pension insurance rights as well as those eligible for contributions, as well as those which are subject to specific rules to alimony from tax revenues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4787	Thank you very much. SDP counseling club. Mr. Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4788	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Accepted or not accepted, no money. No pension money, you and I know it. These 806 million we're looking for, that's what the Pension Insurance Office calculated. I'm counting on you missing a billion and 200 million kunas for your rights last year. And in order for something to increase, to get to those, save me, God 50% of the average salary you've agreed with the pensioners, you're missing another 3.5 billion. At the end of the year, this video stays, explaining what happened, and why pensions can't be paid off. I ask you to vote on this on behalf of the pensioner.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4789	Thank you very much. Who is for this amendment, which the government does not accept? Thank you, he didn't pass, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 75. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4790	The government does not accept this amendment. Because the proposal is intended in some way to counter the solutions that the Proposer otherwise proposes in the proposal of the National Pensions Act. But there is an open question, because a solution is required in the proposed concept of the law as the right to a national pension in the pension scheme or not. In addition, given the characteristics of the proposed national pensions, pensions contain several social protection elements, obtaining the right to pension under the terms of the property census,... for persons who have not worked or based on work have not made any income, unlike the element on which pension insurance is based. and we therefore believe that it is necessary to come more carefully and consistent with the entire social security and social care system to design the National Pensions Institute, and that is what follows and this project and the development of this project follows this year, and our proposal is that this amount, which would go from 300 million to national pensions, does not enter as such an item into the budget, i.e. this amendment does not accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4791	Thank you very much. HSS representative club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4792	Thank you very much. I must remind the Parliament and the Croatian public, that the Republic of Croatia, with its Constitution and Article 57, guarantees the right to help meet the basic needs of life and the weak, powerless and unsettled. Unfortunately, our social assistance and support system does not yet cover all categories of people in need. This specifically applies to those over 65 years of age, who for various life reasons did not meet that minimum quota for a minimum pension of 15 years, or are on welfare care or some other pension under 640 kuna per month, which is actually 19% of the budget base as a minimum pension. We believe that despite the fact that these people have never paid into a pension fund in order for those 40,000 people to be pardoned by 60,000 people to have the right to protect some minimum dignity. Those who have lower social or pension benefits would have the right to distinguish between those 640 kunas. In fact, with this amendment, we're anticipating the laws we've proposed in the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, which, if I understand you correctly, you're expressing yourself positively, but you know these 60 thousand people can't wait anymore. If there were any good will this law we proposed could have gone into emergency procedure, could have been by now... Therefore, for reasons of justice, the resources allocated to social assistance and support must be distributed fairly. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Croatia singles out a lot, and that is why we try to be fair to everyone. This is the category that's hit the hardest. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4793	Thank you very much. I put this proposal to the vote. Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 76. Representatives Mato Arlović, Mato Gavran, Ljubica Brdarić and Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4794	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Let me give you one explanation that concerns a series of these amendments that are now coming and concerning increased entrepreneurship funds. The government's position is clear that this amendment is not accepted. And why is that? For the reason that we are in the 2004 budget when we look at the funds that were achieved and planned and achieved last year and those that are in the budget for this year we have a 22% increase in these funds. So, in the budget for various measures to encourage entrepreneurship, craftsmanship, entrepreneurship and everything else we've increased if we're going to talk in millions for these programmes achieved last year 125 million, this year we have 153 million kuna, something more. Therefore, by respecting and welcoming the initiatives of all parliamentary MPs who proposed to their amendments larger funds, some and far greater funds for individual programmes in the direction of encouraging entrepreneurship, thanks, however, to the budget constraints we have already talked about this year, we do not need to repeat them, we cannot accept these proposals for increased funds. It is also true that, as far as this amendment is concerned, the government's position is not to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4795	Thank you very much. Here you go. On behalf of the club, Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4796	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I am sorry that this government has prevented further development in this way, especially in the areas of Slavonia where I come from. In previous discussions, I kept trying to picture the real state of things. I will say when there is no support in this second part of the local self-government units, these are the development funds that should first and foremost allow young people to remain in the units or in the areas from which I come, but I will also say in the area of Croatia that smartness is not eroded by the intensity that this was particularly backwards for the previous seven, eight years from Croatia. It is about encouraging self-employment and I will say that before the end of the year for the employment of young people and women in the area of Brod-Posavina County, 2.4 million kunas were placed. If we had 24, we'd place them all. With this approach, I don't think we're going to make it possible for us to have a birth rate policy and everything that we talked about yesterday all day. 4.5 million kuna for these items for the whole of Croatia I keep really insufficient. I ask you once again to consider the possibility of helping in this direct way especially where there is an entrepreneurial initiative and to help young women to just get a job. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4797	Thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. HSS Representatives' Club No 77th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4798	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The explanation is what I said. I'll do it again. These all measures that we have foreseen in the budget for this year are a significant step and greater than those we had in the previous year. So the development concept in the direction of fostering entrepreneurship exists. I thank you for the amendments that require far more significant resources. The needs of entrepreneurship are certainly such as our craftsmanship and economy for such great means but by estimating the circumstances we have and the opportunities we hold in mind that these funds are sufficient and have their own developmental function. We don't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4799	Here you go, Mr. Representative Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4800	Of course I can't agree with this argument because it's still about something else. I would like to remind you, this amendment suggests encouraging the entrepreneurship of young people from an overly modest 1 million Mr. Minister, 1 million a year to 21 million, to encourage the entrepreneurship of women from an offensive 1.2 million to 21 million, to encourage the work of craft workshops, don't be angry, from a ridiculous 700 thousand kuna per year to 30 million. I warn that there are 100,000 craftsmen and craft workshops in Croatia today and that in the last three years alone, we have opened 13,000 new workshops. To encourage the development of local lending, it consists of a slightly larger 7 million to 42, but last year nearly 20 million were spent on the item. These funds are all actually intended for associations with units of local self-government and commercial banks, and I remind you that in the last three years, with the same very modest yet slightly larger resources created an investment potential of 7.5 billion kuna, of which 4.6 billion kuna has been accredited, of which 69,000 and 314 jobs have been opened. We also foresee a significant increase in funding on the item to encourage the development of entrepreneurship zones. Their values and development generators should not be spoken of, but I must remind myself that from 2000 to 2003, from these funds subordinated to the EU with units of local self-government, 188 entrepreneurial zones, 29 entrepreneurial incubators and 48 technology centres have been opened. Of course we're not against investments, Greenfield and other investments. I warn, these items of craftsmanship and small and medium enterprises are initial explosives for the development of the Croatian economy. Restriction on these items will also severely endanger the growth of the GDP and the reduction of the unemployment rate. Mr. Minister, you know that, too, and I, and the entire Croatian public. Don't be restrictive on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4801	Thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to a vote that the government doesn't normally accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the votes he needed. 78th MPs Mato Arlović, Mato Gavran, Ljubica Brdarić and Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4802	The government does not accept this amendment either. It is as the previous amendment went towards increasing the position of the local lending development programme from 7 million to 70 million kuna. I'll do it again. The funding for the programmes in this year is 22% higher than last year's funding, so it's not about any restrictions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4803	Thank you very much. Mr. Raven, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4804	Thank you very much. I am pleased, Mr. Minister, that the government has increased 22% of the resources, but you have to consider the fact that the other strengths of support from regional funds have been significantly reduced, etc. I fully sign all of what the HSS Club and Mr. Tomcic said. Of course these are the initial meetings and 7 million kunas that are on this... We have planned for all of Croatia to be truly and ridiculous and insufficient. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm going to take out a pono, in the area of Brod-Posavina County over the last year alone, 122 million kuna has been placed for these purposes, employed by over 6 hundred new employees. What is the situation where 16 thousand of these 9200 women speak for themselves enough now at the Employment Service. Obviously, entrepreneurs are much more inventive and faster, and they grow faster, so they rely on their own strength, their own resources than the state wants and wants to help at the moment. I ask you once again to help especially those environments that were badly injured in the war, which have made a huge contribution, and at least these days, by visiting and celebrating the 14th anniversary of HDZ and Slavonski Brod and in other parts of the Republic of Croatia, the Prime Minister himself and you esteemed gentlemen. Once again, I ask for support and, of course, I request the vote of this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4805	Thank you very much. You're welcome to vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the 79th Representative Joseph Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4806	The government does not accept this amendment either. It's about the means of establishment, the program of establishing technical parks... I don't think the MPs have all the programs that are planned in, under the position of encouraging entrepreneurship, so we also have seven million kunas for the development of entrepreneurship centres. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there are resources for all activities and for entrepreneurship centres and incubators and technology parks. We are also facing a very close discussion in this year and a debate on the Law that the ministry will pass, i.e. the Government and this Chamber of Technology Parks. So we hold that there are funds for this purpose that the amendment proposes to single out. And the government's position is not to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4807	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4808	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I wish I could be happy with your explanation, but I'm not. It's about the amount of 1 million kuna. Just 1 million kuna, be careful. This best shows the position of the government and government towards small and medium-sized enterprises. It's a county dominated by wood, leather and textile industries. And you and I both know what condition she's in, it's a county where it's extremely important to develop small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, so let's not let people from other counties. I cannot be satisfied with this explanation since there are already 3 entrepreneurship centres in that county. One city, one county, one municipal. And we think that these funds would make a significant contribution to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4809	Thank you very much. I'm putting it to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the 80 MPs of Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4810	The government does not accept this amendment either. It is also about looking for funding for a programme for the establishment of technology parks and entrepreneurship centres in the amount of one million kunas because I continue to repeat the clear commitment of the Government through both the budget and the positions that are in the budget and the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, and clearly there is strong support for the promotion of entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship centres, zones and resources. And I repeat 22% higher than last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4811	Thank you very much. Mr. Korenik, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4812	Mr. Minister, Mr. Vresk has already given some part of the explanation, however, I fear that when ministers have some discretionary right to decide whether a programme will pass or not and he is not given in our budget that there is nothing of it. In addition, for his stay this week, Minister Primorac promised a certain amount and money to a tech park in Varazdin. And I'd be very happy to hear from which sources, from which items. It'll be right in the budget. I'm afraid it won't be any of that and just in case, I'm asking for a statement from this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4813	Thank you very much. I'm putting it to the vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Marija Lugarić, 81st Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4814	The government does not accept an amendment with an explanation that I have already said I am not repeating.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4815	Here you go, Mrs. Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4816	First of all, the explanation may be in total but when we look at the development and entrepreneurial incubators, there is no increase of 20%. The funds planned for the development of entrepreneurial incubators in 2003 amounted to 5 million kunas. For 2004, 4 million kunas were planned. So there are no increases you're talking about, it's simply a reduction of 1 million kuna. In addition to the arguments put forward by the predecessors, the predecessors in the fact that it was published the other day, the publication of a recommendation from the Competitiveness Council that they offer a number of recommendations to the Government to increase competitiveness and in this respect the entire entrepreneurship climate in the Republic of Croatia, and it is just pointed out that it is necessary to work both on education and on promoting the level of awareness of entrepreneurial culture. And I therefore suggested that the difference which is smaller in this million kuna budget be added to the capital donation to non-profit organisations because it is directly followed by the Council's recommendations for competitiveness and, on the other hand, equalises the means to encourage development from entrepreneurial incubators with the 2003 funds. Therefore, if your arguments sometimes stand in total, you can't see it in the structure of the report. And I really think I've made enough good and valid arguments to accept this amendment, so please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4817	Thank you very much. I'm putting on this amendment to vote. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Zdenka Chuhil 82.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4818	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Now one again is a series of amendments that have a requirement in the direction or individual entrepreneurial zone of budgeting or such as the following amendments. More of these areas above all I want to say that the development of entrepreneurship zones is one of the programme's priority specifics when it comes to encouraging entrepreneurship. That we were in a position to encourage and develop entrepreneurship zones instead of the 30 million that were in the budget last year for this year, 55 million kuna. So I welcome all those and counties and cities and municipalities and representatives who in some way initiate, seek and want both their zones and zones in their counties to have clearly visible and in the budget, however, even so far there has been no practice as far as I know, and I don't think it would be good to budget any zone by name and last name from any city or county. My promise here is and the message is clear from this budget that in particular and larger funds, therefore, from 30 million to 35 million kuna in this year, it is a significant or greatest increase that will be aimed precisely at encouraging and supporting the establishment, establishment of entrepreneurship zones. So this amendment is not accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4819	Thank you very much. Mrs. Chuhnell's protégé.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4820	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. I have already stressed the state of the Bjelovar-Bilogor County economy that the number of unemployed faces at this time. I also stressed that 1/3 of local self-government units are in the area of special state concern, which certainly creates a major problem. And so let's not be surprised that right now, all the units in their spatial plans have predicted entrepreneurial zones. As it is mainly private-owned land to be purchased, which should be equipped fully with infrastructure because most of these municipalities are lagging behind in municipal infrastructure today. Surely these funds that are sought here are not too large and would provide at least a start for such an economy that is a condition for solving all issues, so I ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4821	Thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to a vote on who's in favour? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 83 MPs, Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4822	The government does not accept this amendment in the same way as the amendment, which for the County of Međmurje, lists exactly the municipalities or areas where support would be given to the zones. I repeat the zone and position to support the business zones is important and based on the criteria will be support, clearer principles and criteria will be support for all municipalities, cities and counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4823	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavlic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4824	So in the međurje County, there is hardly any municipality and city in which these zones are not being built and equipped, the project has been going on for two years. With this great help from the ministry itself. With regard to anise known to such criteria under which these funds will be shared, I ask, however, that the vote should try, therefore, to determine which municipality will receive in what amount of funds. That's it. I hope, then, that all these esons will receive support from the ministry this year. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4825	Thank you very much. I'm putting it to the vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment by MP Dragica Zgrebec 84.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4826	The government doesn't accept. It's the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4827	Mrs. Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4828	I'll add to the explanation of fellow Pavlica and this. The craftsmanship and small entrepreneurship in the Mediterranean County has a long tradition. In the '80s, we had over three and a half thousand craftsmen. Today precisely because all municipalities in their pro-progami have introduced at least one entrepreneurial or industrial zone, we are among the counties with the lowest unemployment rate. So far, we've had a yearly investment in fathers from the state budget or other funds between 800 and two-and-a-half million kunas per zone. Here we propose that the set now be done for 14 municipalities and cities that have already planned this in their local budgets and are counting on those funds. Since both the Regional Development Fund and HABOR have reduced funds in this year from the state budget, of course it will not be able to report for some programmes in those institutions, and it will have to redistribute some of its budget to these needs, which, of course, makes it impossible to develop some other activities. Despite you saying that these funds will be increased but given that some other funds have been reduced, they will certainly not be able to be realised to such an extent as they were in earlier years. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4829	Thank you very much. I'm putting this on the amendment to vote. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Miroslav Korenik 85.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4830	The government does not accept the amendment, and I have already said that I am not repeating it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4831	Here you go, Mr. Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4832	I must stress that a low-accumulated economy such as the electricity industry, the wood of the processing, the shoe industry prevails in the Varage County. That the average salary is 25% lower than in other parts of the Republic of Croatia and that over 20 million kuna has been invested in the equipment of entrepreneurship zones in the past period with the help of the previous government. Of the 28 units of local self-government in them, 19 were built sub-station zones, and over 1,000 workers have been employed in them over the past 3 years. It seems to me that the rejection of this amendment by the builders or those unemployed workers of Varazin, Varazinske spas, Novi Marof, Lepoglava, Ivanac, Sracinc, and Particles are losing their ability to be employed. It seems to me that this government has had priority or at least verbally has employment priorities. But you're strong in verbalism, but when it comes to the guarantees you've given to fulfill, it's very far from that. Please plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4833	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, the amendment was not accepted and did not receive the required majority of votes. Amendment 86 of the House of Representatives Club HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4834	The government doesn't accept the amendment is about what I've already explained,...a zone in Bjelovar biligor County. So we don't have and we suggest it's not even in the budget of any specific zones. Because we already have a far higher position for the zones that we're going to be spending just to support all the zones in all the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4835	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Ivak Kolar on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4836	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's the story that the funds are bigger we're not visible or better said you don't know who they're going to be assigned to. So I suggest to the minister that the criteria are met in the manner that the administration's unit and local self-government are progressing. It means because it provides its own resources in which amount, and to be a criterion, otherwise old practices teach us that we need to be skeptical and that is why we propose these amendments directly because the own funds invested are no longer adequately rewarded to be picturesque from the state budget. And we remain only on our own investment or rather our own purpose. That's why so many amendments in this way, so let's make this my contribution to spending the funds in a transparent way, to spend where the locomotive's already moving, where it's retreating without first moving from behind to give for projects, for this, not for that. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4837	Thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank God he didn't get the votes he needed. 87 representatives of Mrs. Alenka Kočica Chichin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4838	The government does not accept the amendment and these are areas in Sisak Mosalva County.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4839	Thank you, Mrs. Chichin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4840	Thank you, Mr. President, I must say that unlike the former representatives who have advocated business zones in their counties. We have a specific case here, which is that Sisak Moslavina County has the lowest gross national income. If we want to and if we talk about the development budget, then it is absolutely important to see how we will achieve this development. And we're going to make it happen exactly by encouraging the development of business zones. Therefore, I kindly ask you from this impertinence where the budget provides for a single item I would like to see that for the entrepreneurial zone of the Cross and the entrepreneurial zone in Novskokj defines exactly how much funds we can answer. It is planned here, or, on my part, proposed, a million kunas for the town of Križ and 2 and a half million kuna for the business zone in Novska. We must arrest you that for both, and for each other, project documentation has been made that the land has been purchased, the pub has asked at least those representatives who come from the 6th constituency to support this amendment. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4841	Thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Djurdja Adlesic. Amendment 88.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4842	The government does not accept the amendment, the explanation as it did for the previous.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4843	Thank you very much. Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4844	Mr. Minister, I'm looking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4845	The minister's office is asking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4846	Therefore, Amendment 88 proposes the inclusion of a new position for the construction of entrepreneurship zones in Bjelovarska bilogora County of 10 million kuna. As I have said so far in this draft budget is a significant increase in the position that is now heading towards building and encouraging the construction and establishment of entrepreneurship zones. The ministry will develop clear criteria of principle based on which these suggestions I have heard today from you MPs will include making it clear to whom and in what way and how these incentives go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4847	Thank you very much. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4848	I'm looking for a vote. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4850	I'm putting this amendment to a vote that the government doesn't normally accept. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. Amendment 90 is now being taken over by the Ministry of Culture. I thank Minister Vukelic. Excuse me, there is another amendment to the 89th Amendment of Representative Joseph Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4851	The government doesn't accept the amendment. It is the same, the amendment is the same as the amendment number 85 programmes, for the programme of organising entrepreneurship zones looking for 3 million kunas, I have already said in the overall programmes that have been increased this year are significant for encouraging entrepreneurship and among other incentives for organisation, the establishment of entrepreneurship zones.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4852	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4853	Mr. Minister, if the entrepreneurship zones are operating somewhere, then it's a Varazdin County, or the city of Varazdin. So far, 20 million kuna has been invested in entrepreneurial zones. Not to repeat the story of how important the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is in this particular county for the reasons mentioned earlier, and the reasons are cited above all in the state of wood I repeat again, the leather and other industries that were, or functioned in the Varazdin County, and today are no longer functioning. The amount of 3 million kuna is nothing compared to the total amount for your ministry, especially for the state budget. I can't accept such an argument, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4854	Thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. He didn't get the necessary majority. I thank Minister Vukelic. I pray to Minister Bozo Bishop, Minister of Culture. Amendment 92 of MPs Antun Vujic and Mrs Maria Lugaric. Excuse me, one page turned upside down again. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović 90.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4855	Mr. Vice President, allow me a few sentences of everything in the introduction. I would like to tell you that in these 27 proposals about 86% of your proposals are already in the cultural development programme because it is very often about cultural monuments, about programs that last over several years over time and some of them have already been some example of Čakovec for more than 8 years or 10 years in that programme and such a continuation of the programme will continue, so you will hear the answer "not accepted" always with concrete reasons why. The reason is very often that they are already in the cultural development programme. Madam MPs, this 90 amendment is not accepted because part of this programme is in opposition to the equipment and construction of institutions in culture, it is specifically about the City Library in Biograd. It is located in a program of equipment and arrangements.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4856	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4857	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, what you said earlier is not about building a city library in Biograd and it's not about any cultural monument. The city of Biograd really doesn't have the resources. And the other thing you said about the monument of culture, so you didn't specifically refer to the construction of the city library, but you said it on a flat-rate basis about the monument of culture, so neither of these claims apply to the monuments of culture, so you only gave an explanation for the summer cinema, so I accept it partly, but these were insufficient funds, so I'm staying with my amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4858	Thank you very much. Here's your vote. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you very much. The amendment didn't go through. Representatives Marija Lugarić and Zvonimir Mršić 91.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4859	The proposed programme is not accepted but is done in the programme of protection works of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4860	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4861	Namely, Jankovic's position in Daruvar existed in last year's budget. Such an explanation constitutes a kind of hiding of certain items and does not give sufficient assurance that they will indeed be implemented because it is implemented in one common item. We introduced that item two or three years ago into the budget. The funds for the inner planning of the castle have already been allocated by the town of Daruvar, it is necessary to complete the recovery of the southern and eastern and western castle facades and stop further devastations. I remind you of a castle of the first category that was not only devastated by time but also a primary school in it, and now this problem is being solved through other items, but I think it is necessary to establish this position in this way transparently in the budget and ask for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4862	Thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 92 MPs Antun Vujic and Mrs Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4863	It's unacceptable. I'll take the opportunity to tell you there's no hiding positions. We in the Ministry of Culture inherited transparency which is public, everything is publicly published on the website of the Ministry of Culture. We will, of course, follow that practice and after the adoption of the budget each item will be made public there. So neither was there nor would be in the future to hide the positions. This is a summary position without a concrete proposal and is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4864	Thank you very much. Mr. Antun Vujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4865	Mr. Chairman and Mr. Minister. This is a summary position because the collective Ministry of Culture for cultural development and creation programmes was cut off by 37 million kunas per budget compared to what it had last year. It's an apparent... The funds for the Ministry of Culture for the 690 million kuna are covered by 77 million kuna in connection with the accession of the Ministry of the Environment, which refers to national parks, the protection of karst areas, the operation of associations, the salaries of the ministry that have been increased, etc. etc. [[You don't understand.]] The fact budget of the Ministry of Culture in this respect is not 690 for cultural activities but 623 million which is actually 30th, 37 million as I calculated less than it was planned for earlier years and I must note that this is the first time after four years that the funds of the Ministry of Culture are not climbing at a rate of 10%, but are reduced in total by more than 30 million kuna. This is a very bad sign since we all in some way swear that culture is also a factor in development I must conclude that with this kind of policy this government does not accept, and as far as the big budget declarations are concerned, we could also attach the Ministry of Agriculture to agriculture, and then the budget would be even bigger and not go to culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4866	Thank you very much. Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4867	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4868	Thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 93 MPs Antun Vujic and Marija Lugaric also.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4869	It's unacceptable. If last year's budget was drawn up by the same technology, there would be only 413 million kuna in that section of the cultural development programme. We figured it out exactly. Therefore, in this particular response, it is not clear at all what kind of cultural development programme it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4870	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Vujić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4871	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. This is exactly what you said yourself, and Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister Kosor, that you would intervene in the budget, that there were errors in the budget. Namely, after we have received amendments to the government that are changing some positions, it is now clear that some positions are changing, but regularly downhill. So, for example, for theatre and musical and stage activities, it falls. For literary publishing and libraries it was reduced by 4 million, from 53 it came to 49. Art creation and art activity 7 million is less. It hasn't been transferred to a suitable place. The protection of 20 million-dollar moving monuments has come to 18 million. So these are now specific items that are measurable. They're less per realisation of last year's budget for about 10 million kuna, and that was the purpose of, I say, proposing that it return to you, to return as the Ministry of Culture, 10 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4872	Thank you very much. Am I putting this amendment to the vote? Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 94 of Mrs. Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4873	It's unacceptable. The funds for the construction of the museum of contemporary art are secured under the position of investment in culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4874	Thank you very much. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4875	I'm very sorry that this position is completely non-transparent, so you can't see how much these funds are secured for it. Namely, this is a capital facility for the state of Croatia, regardless of what is in the City of Zagreb, and as you know, by agreement of May 2001 between the City of Zagreb and the Ministry of Culture, this investment is decided to be financed in half the amount. So each with half the amount. The construction of the museum was planned between 2003 and 2006, and the total investment was planned at an amount of 180 million kuna without equipment. In 2003, 10 million kuna were planned from the City of Zagreb budget and 5 million kuna from the state budget. As construction began only in November 2003, however, only 3 million kuna were spent. In 2004, however, the City of Zagreb planned to finance a project in the beginning with 32 million kuna, but only 20 million kuna are foreseen in the budget, while the difference will settle, they say, through rebalancing. As regards the capital facility of Croatian culture, this purpose must be singled out in a separate position with at least 35 million kuna. By mentioning that in your cuts, let's say, a special position is shown to restore the Palace of Restic. So, I mean, she'd deserve this capital building if she also had her own position. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4876	Thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to the vote? Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the 95th Representative of Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4877	It's unacceptable. Most of the proposed programmes are already in the construction program held by the institution on culture, the House of Culture of St. Mary, the Hotel... And the Marine Center. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4878	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4879	Thank you. Well, in almost all municipalities, we really do have a need for the restoration of the homes of culture. It is something that all of our municipalities that have such facilities have in their budgets, and in this amendment that I propose is only a new one, a new construction of the Centre for Culture in the City of Mursko Centre where the projects are completed and should start in this year as well with construction works. I would have been more pleased if you had said to what extent it would be monitored, if these are symbolic means then there is really no possibility that the works could be completed or that the initial works in a slightly larger volume of 2004 would be completed. And please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4880	Thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Željko Pavlic. Amendment 96.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4881	It's unacceptable. The answer is the same. Most of the programmes are located, most of the proposed programmes are in the programme of building institutions in culture. It is also about St. Mary, Kotoriba and the Police Centre, and we will, of course, fund it. After the budget is adopted, we will publish the exact funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4882	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4883	Well, I'm actually... Therefore, projects have been adopted to continue in St. Mary, Donjo Dubrava and Kotoriba because the municipalities themselves have already provided for funds in their budget. [[You don't understand.]] But there is a new project, therefore, to rebuild the House of Culture in Donjo Vidovci, which would therefore beg the vote, therefore, for this new project to be included, therefore, in the possible distribution of this, this. So, please vote on the entire amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4884	Here you go, Mr. Tomcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4885	Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the club, I'm looking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4886	Here, please check the quorum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4887	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4888	92, we have a quorum. Thank you very much. I put this amendment to the vote, Mr. Zeljko Pavlic. Who's in? Thank you very much. There are no votes required. 97. Representatives Željko Pecek, Ljubica Lalic and Bozidar Pankretić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4889	It's unacceptable. Most of the proposed programmes have already been included in the cultural development programme. Pejačević Palace in Virovitica, space... libraries in Chepin and Dom culture in Pitomacha. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4890	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4891	Thank you very much. The association that satisfies, I hope that in the implementation of the budget there will be room for the other projects that have been run here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4892	Thank you very much. Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4893	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4894	I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment of 98th Representative Branko Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4895	It's unacceptable. The town of Split as the founder was not manifested by a elaborate programme in the competition. There is no complete solution to the elaborate programme of the purpose of the Youth Home of Gripa.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4896	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4897	I think the City of Split is a carrier, but I still think this Parliament and government should run that activity because it's been untapped for years, and here we have 14 of our MPs with the 10th constituency who know well what the space is and why it serves. He's now gathering drug addicts and poor people in the evening, and I think this amendment should be accepted by the Government and the Parliament, to launch an initiative to finally settle that space because it's... cultural space for City of Split. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4898	Thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much, not accepted. 99th Madam Representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4899	It's unacceptable. Both requirements are included in the programme of cultural development of the Ministry of Culture and the Church of the Ascension of Mary in Slavonski Klobaš and the Church of St. Michael in Dubocić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4900	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4901	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, thank you, Mr. Secretary, for being included. However, I would prefer a sense of what means it is, given that it is very important cultural monuments. I would only remind of the Church of the Ascension of the Blessed Virgin Mary in Slavonski Klobash because the church, the monument of the 11th century culture. Last year, research has been done, research has found traces that say it's the most valuable monument of culture in Slavonia. This applies to the triumphal arch and this applies to the Capitol. As for the Church of St. Michael in Dubosac, it is also a monument of culture located on the banks of the Sava River that has been hard to crush in the Homeland War and these years of all years, something has been invested, therefore, it is about sacral objects that function in worship. If these objects are not finished in this year we mutilate the believers because I note that in the Church of the Blessed Virgin Mary in Slavonsko.... they perform godly acts especially on the Great Lady when it is a regional sanctuary, when pilgrims come not only from Slavonia but from all over Croatia, come from Bosnia, not only northern Bosnia but also from southern Bosnia and there should indeed be invested considerable funds to bring them into office as soon as possible, in which they were indeed years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4902	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4903	I'm asking for a vote, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4904	Thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thanks, he didn't get the votes he needed. Representatives Antun Vujic and Marija Lugarić amendment 100.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4905	It's unacceptable. I would like to say here that the monumental rent law, which was passed in the last government's term, which was still well confirmed, was happily started to live, the collection of the monumental rent began, the news that we have from Dubrovnik, which first specifically started very well, and we predict that this year, from the collection of the monumental rent for the protection and restoration of cultural monuments, could be collected in a special account of about 40 to 60 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4906	Thank you very much. Mr. Antun Vujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4907	The purpose of this amendment is to regain the level of funding for the protection of cultural monuments at that height last year. That is true, and we also expect that we were lucky that this Parliament in the last term confirmed the Law in the context of the monumental rent, however, at that time we explicitly said that these funds were like what still needs to be added to the existing funds in order to preserve that I would say the update in protecting the monuments of culture in which we stand very badly. It wouldn't be good, and I don't think I'd agree to see any reserves here to cut this part's budget funding. We continue to allocate too little to protect cultural monuments in the budget, this should have been one supplement that would activate local communities and are not compatible sizes, so I suggest we continue to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4908	Thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you for not getting the required number of votes. Amendment 101 of Mr. Joseph Vresk's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4909	It is not accepted, the proposed programme is included in the protection work programme, namely the County Palace in Varazdin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4910	Thank you very much, Mr. Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4911	Thank you very much. President, Mr. Minister, I would really like it to be so included. In fact, we all know that the County Palace in Varazdin is in the largest of Varazdin... the core, that it is continuously carried out in 1977, that the county has provided part of the funds this year and that it is additionally in charge of another 7.5 million kuna. We know what condition the County Palace is in and that conservation works are urgently needed. I don't agree with the argument, but I'm still asking for a vote on the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4912	I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you, the amendment was not accepted because it did not receive the required number of votes. Same amendment 102.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4913	Acceptable, the proposed program has already been included.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4914	Amendment 102, I don't think so. Are you pulling back?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4915	I would like Mr. Minister to say what amount it is because this is the way I see it when the total amounts are in the state budget we do not know what they are and we are constantly talking about the transparency of the budget and everything else, I would ask you Mr. Minister, tell us how much money this is planned for the County Palace in Varazdin County, especially because, as my colleague Vresk already said, there is a possibility of borrowing, because the next 30 years it will be done then from the renovated county palace I am afraid there will be nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4916	This way, please, this amendment has already been rejected and the practice has been so far in the House that then no debate on the amendment is opened which is exactly the same, so he's been rejected and I think we can move on. Representatives Antun Vujic and Mrs Marija Lugarić 103.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4917	It is not accepted that the remaining means of labour protection, as I have already mentioned on the monuments, will be realised from the urban monumental rent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4918	Thank you very much. Mr. Antun Vujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4919	That's not the answer to this amendment, Amendment 103 is about, and sorry is, the answer is, I thought it was the second amendment. However, the argument as well as before is not about the fact that the monumental rent should be used to ensure that less budget funds should have been maintained at least at the level at which they were and this should have been additional funds, in this way we do not use the Law on Monumental Rent but we just allocate in a different way the source of funds and we deprive the state of its obligation to monitor the protection of cultural monuments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4920	Thank you very much for putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the votes he needed. Representatives of Ms. Dragica Zgrebec 104.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4921	It is not accepted, the proposed programme is already included in the programme of protection and works on cultural monuments, it is a long-standing programme of reconstruction of the town of Zrinski in Čakovec, we are aware of its meaning and the Ministry will surely monitor with sufficient resources to rebuild the city.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4922	Thank you very much, Mrs. Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4923	It is the city of Zrinski, a monument to the culture of zero categories that has been restored for many years, and finally conservation projects have been done for several years, given the insufficient personnel in this institution. As of this year, it is possible to move into the accelerated reconstruction of Zrinski city, to say with our parliament that during the time of Ban Nikola Šubić Zrinski in that city several times the Croatian Parliament also held several meetings, so I think there are reasons for Zrinski being a special item in the state budget as I have proposed in this amendment and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4924	Thank you very much for putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 105 of Mr. Zeljko Pavlic's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4925	It is not accepted, the proposed programmes are included in the programme of protection and works on cultural monuments, part of the programmes envisaged.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4926	Here you go, Mr. Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4927	I would like to ask the vote precisely because part of this amendment has been accepted, perhaps just to mention the restoration of the bell towers and parish church in the SV. For several years now, they have been spent with the help of the ministry, and it is important to note that more than 500 thousand kunas have gathered themselves locals different... and a donation, so I hope that the same Ministry will approve. Thank you very much. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4928	Thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? The amendment was not accepted, did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment of the 106th Amendment of Mr Antun Vujic and Mrs Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4929	It is not accepted, the holder of the programme should be the city of Zagreb, which held a tender in 99 years and did not later provide any means to produce project documentation. If the city provides funds for the project, part of the construction of this monument may be part of the project documentation of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4930	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4931	The answer is partly correct, however, this is about the obligation made by the Croatian Parliament to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has started all activities in the past term and procedures related to the construction of the monuments of the homeland and concerning the location of each case, including cooperation with the city of Zagreb. However, as well as two Committee meetings were held in which this Parliament has its representatives as well as associations from the Homeland War, as well as a whole series of professional and other bodies, it is uncontestable that it is very important to underline the opinion expressed and the visualisation that was demonstrated by a possible solution to approach such a major procedure, which would also be a procedure in the new urban solutions of the city itself, and in some ways also monuments to the homeland and the passage of Zagreb through Stjepan Radic Square towards Sava, as well as to the sea. It is a major project and therefore this Parliament would have to give it an adequate duty to separate it with a special position so that it is just now related to the collection of documents and to co-operation with the city of 5 million kuna. It was the purpose of this amendment and I ask that the decisions of this same Parliament be taken into account and that in this relatively symbolic way the issue of the monuments to the homeland be included in the obligations of this Parliament and the Government as it will certainly be the obligation of the city.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4932	Thank you. I'm putting this amendment to a vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 107 of Mr. Zeljko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4933	It is not accepted because the restoration of the organ of the parish church of the Blessed Virgin Mary, the parish of St. Mary, is in the programme of cultural development.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4934	Here you go, Mr. Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4935	I am therefore withdrawing the amendment and I hope that it will come true because it is indeed a valuable monument, a moving monument of culture, and I think everything will be fine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4936	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment 108 of Mr. Damir Cain's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4937	She's not taking it. The programmes were not reported during a public call with appropriate documentation and refer to the submission of applications in the first subsequent invitation to tender with the relevant documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4938	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4939	Your Honors, Mr. Minister, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. This is about a request for reconstruction of the family house of Matija Vlačić Ilirik. Obviously it's a cultural monument, and we'll all probably agree that along with Diocletian as the greatest performer of Christian, I don't know Tesla, Tito's most famous person from these spaces is Matija Vlačić Ilirik, Matius Splatius Iliricus. He was born in Labin 1520. He died in Frankfurt on May 1575. He was one of the champions of reformation. With Luther, certainly another man of that movement. They called him Achilles of pure Lutheranism, coauthor of the “Eclesiasticae historiae” of the monumental work of the church until 1300, and bearing in mind the coming to these spaces of many from Germany, I do not know Denmark, the Netherlands and so on, we hold that it would be useful to find even though this minimally proposed funds here for the restoration of a monument of culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4940	Thank you very much. Does the government stay? He's staying. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who's in? The amendment has not been accepted. He didn't get the votes he needed. Also representative of Damir Cain 109.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4941	It is not accepted because the project of the programme of rehabilitation and preservation of the collection will be developed from the profession and why funds are provided in the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4942	Great. I'm happy here with this explanation. Otherwise, let me just say that this sacral collection of the Church of St. Blaž in Vednjan, led today by priest Marijan Jelic owns, how? Jelenić pardon, yes, owns one of the most valuable collections of sacral culture in the territory of the Republic of Croatia but perhaps wider. They claim to be in possession of 380 liquefies. They say it's the largest collection in Europe. Among other things, there are four decomposed bodies of saints; St. Helen, Barbara and so on. The collection constantly attracts tourists, and it is in catastrophic condition and should do something to protect this relic of sacral culture in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thanks for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4943	Thank you very much. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who's in? The amendment didn't go through.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4944	No, you don't have to, you don't have to vote if,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4945	And he's retired?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4946	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4947	And I didn't hear that. Excuse me. So Amendment 109 was withdrawn. Thank you. The 110th Amendment is also Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4948	It is not accepted that this program is already included in the programme of protection works on the monuments of culture and restoration of this, this which is the family building of Bishop Dobrile.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4949	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4950	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4951	Bishop Juraj Dobrila was born in 1812 in Ježenje near Pazin, died in Trieste 1882. Initiator of the people's rebirth not only of Istrian Croats but also of Slovenians. He often said: “I am a shepherd and a Latina and a Slavena”. At the Vatican Council, he joined Strossmayer, uh, and what else do you say? It's on a 10 kuna bill, but his birthplace is really neglected. I think it's a monument to a culture that's privately owned and there's one problem. How someone who owns a monument to the culture of private property, this one, does not force but helps him to just sort of valorize the object. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4952	I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative also Mr Damir Cain 111.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4953	It is not accepted, the programme was not reported during a public call with appropriate documentation and is referred to the submission of applications in the first national competition but with appropriate documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4954	Thank you very much. Here you go. Agent Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4955	Yeah. Here are also proposed symbolic means to build monuments for war victims in Istrian County. The question keeps asking how to end these permanent verbal battles between Croatian, Italian publicists, politicians, historians and so on. I claim that 17 thousand Istrian victims as many as died on the side of the anti-fascist coalition during World War II are certainly the biggest tragedy of these Istrian spaces, but also these exodus that occurred between the two wars after World War II are also a tragedy not only for people who were affected by them but also for the area of the county of Istrian as a whole. There's absolutely no doubt about it for me. Every innocent victim has fallen to the right or wrong side deserves a drink, and I think that story of these sufferings, phonies, exoduses and so on should end with one symbolic act for which at least when Istria was achieved by the plebiscite and by the political parties and by the Alliance of anti-fascist fighters and by the Italian Union and by the fighters of the Homeland War, and I would ask that this amendment be adopted or that the Government accepts one such approach to treating it is certainly still important, so I will tell the political, political problems of the Republic of Croatia because if I am not mistaken and the debate on today's amendments, we have opened the need to respect the Treaty of Rome based on which the budget proposes to provide adequate funds for the payment, under quotes so-called amendments. Optatical assets.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4956	Thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Miroslav Korenik 112th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4957	Not accepted, the proposed programme is already included in the nature protection programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4958	I would like to hear from Mr. Minister how much money is protected or invested to preserve the Arborettem of bricks in Vinica because only the public doing the Arboretum of the brick is the monument of the park architecture of the most category. So far, he has been cared for by a veterinary and agricultural school in Vinica and Varazdin County within the cultural and castle monuments, which is unfortunately quite devastated. By means of a powerful solution, the Republic of Croatia has become the owner of the Arboretum of the brick and I would like to hear before I decide on the possible withdrawal of the amendments to which the amount of money is concerned?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4959	... [[The speaker is not understood, not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4960	I'm asking for an additional explanation of the Minister that I have the right to do according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4961	I said after the budget is passed we'll release all the amounts publicly via our Ministry's website. Until the adoption of the budget, there was no allocation of funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4962	I have to say that this answer to me, I have the right to further explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4963	Mr. Korenika, neither Minister nor you should have received your word now. You took...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4964	According to the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4965	Please, nice. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who wants to raise a hand? He didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to the 113st representative of Joseph Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4966	It's unacceptable. The proposed programme is included in the programme of nature protection in that section relating to the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4967	But there are three ministries. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4968	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, it's three ministries, not one. And here in this amendment, three million kunas are additionally sought. Not to repeat what Mr. Korenika said earlier, the Arboretum of bricks is one of the biggest such parks in Europe. It's as important as Arboratum in Dubrovnik. It is urgent to resuscitate the park, especially the castle which is located in the composition of the park. It is not visible in which items the funds for the restoration of parks and castles are provided, so once again, please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4969	Thank you very much. This part will be explained by Ms Marina Matulović-Dropulic, who refers to the Ministry of Protection and the Environment and Spatial Planning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4970	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representative, we cannot accept this amendment. Because only two things are funded in our division, which is Osijek Fortress and the city of Dubrovnik. Therefore, there are no other positions, and if we open such a new position, then there is no end to all others, and in nature protection it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4971	Thank you very much. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 114 of Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4972	It's unacceptable. The proposed programme is in the nature protection programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4973	Here you go, Mr. Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4974	We're getting to the same thing again. The directorial right of the Minister, the Ministry to determine the money, and that the Croatian Parliament, that is, this High House, simply does not decide anything. That's why, without further ado, I'm asking for a statement from this house.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4975	Thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Josip Vresk, 115th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4976	The same answer, because it's actually a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4977	In the second part, we can discuss the second part of this, the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development. This is settled first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4978	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, it's a shame there is no Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. This cave is located on the very border with the Republic of Slovenia, and it has been devastated, of course, it was financed in that part of how much Varazdinska County could single out for its revitalisation. It is a significant and tourist facility, not only cultural and historical. and because of the very closeness with the Republic of Slovenia, and otherwise because it is located in one part where the castles and periways of the Croatian Zagorje, which... which are not. That is why I have set this amendment by targeting two ministries, the Ministry of Culture and the Sea, tourism and development. Since it is not visible from the Ministry of Culture, which is an item, where a million kuna is foreseen, and especially not in the Ministry of the Sea, or its items, this is what I request to vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4979	Thank you very much. We're voting for part two of the amendment. Who's in? Thank you very much. He wasn't accepted, he didn't get the number of votes he needed. 116. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4980	It's unacceptable. The State Institute for Nature Protection is not a separate position in the budget, because as a public institution part is included in the budget as well as all other public institutions. How international projects are included specifically as the participation of the Republic of Croatia in their realisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4981	Thank you very much. In the name of the club, Mrs. Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4982	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Based on the agreement reached between the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction and the State Nature Protection Institute since 5 February 2004, the State Institute has taken over 9 international nature protection projects and has been transferred funding for individual projects. Each project has a financial monitoring obligation by the Republic of Croatia, why the proposal for the budget of the Ministry of Culture provides for those items. Since the implementation of the project has passed to the state institution, the accompanying funds from the state budget should be transferred, and therefore we remain with the amendment. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4983	Thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Here you go. What a violation of the Rules of Procedure.?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4984	Please determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4985	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4986	Please determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4987	Please establish the quorum at the session. Here you go. 81, we have a quorum. For this amendment, the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Who's in? He didn't pass, he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 117 of the HSS agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4988	It's unacceptable. The funds for the work of the National Nature Protection Institute are provided in the budget with all other public institutions in the protection of nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4989	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4990	Thank you. The proposed amendment complements the budget of the Ministry of Culture, the paragraph for the State Institute for Nature Protection, in accordance with the financial plan adopted by the Administrative Council of the Institute at the meeting held on 22 December 2003. For example, the budget of the Environmental Protection Agency is presented in the framework of the budget of the Ministry of Environment, Spatial Planning and Construction,... the budget of the Institute for Education of the Republic of Croatia under the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. The State Nature Protection Office was established as an institution by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 12(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Law on Institute Institutions began with the work on 15 September 2003 with a total of 9 staff members of the planned 25. With the new Nature Protection Act, the Institute has obtained the status of a public institution, and becomes a public service to carry out professional tasks of nature protection. The founder of the institute is the Republic of Croatia, and the rights on behalf of the state are exercised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Funds in the state budget have been provided for the establishment and start of the work of the Institute. Permanent sources of funding for the activities of the Institute are from the state budget and from other sources in accordance with the law. The establishment of the institute is envisaged by the strategy and action plan to protect the biological and landscape diversity of the Republic of Croatia and by the plan to implement the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Part of the Office’s activities are carried out, the Institute performs as its regular activity and gives them a financial statement through the salaries of its employees. Part of the job is defined through specific programmes for which the involvement of external partners is partly needed, and accordingly it is necessary to provide specific resources in the state budget, and therefore we propose, we remain with the amendment and we demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4991	Thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to a vote, which the government doesn't normally accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. The amendment didn't get the required majority. I thank the Minister of God's Bishop. And please, Mr. Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Peter Cobankovic. Representative Ljubica Lalić, Amendment 118.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4992	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Amendments are not accepted. We stand at the point that the funds are sufficient for planned activities in accordance with the Regulation on the processing of tobacco, manufacturing and branding of tobacco products. I'd just like to point out that this year we have an increase of 45% on the target item.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4993	... Lalic or Bozidar Pankretic. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4994	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I think you know that the Tobacco Institute is now owned for the first time by the Faculty of Agriculture in Zagreb, which definitely means that after completely false privatisation, it has finally managed to stop it from breaking up but to come to where it belongs, and I believe that if we want to continue with certain scientific research and all that is needed in the development of the entire tobacco industry and especially in this production-related section, I think this part of the funds is not enough, especially because it is clear that the Spiritual Institute does not have its own accommodation and will have to be temporarily located in a specific location. We don't know if this will work, so I ask you for the reason that this amendment is still being considered, because surely this part of the projected funds will not be sufficient. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4995	The amendment of Ms. Ljubice Lalic, Bozidar Pankretić, Željko Peceka 118th, I put to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. The amendment was not accepted. Representatives Ljubica Lalic, Bozidar Pankretić, Željko Pecek 119.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4996	Amendments are not accepted. I would like to point out that for this activity that I hold extremely important assets are provided for in the investment support positions and this funding provided for in the 2004 budget is only part of the settlement of the previous year's liabilities because I do not know for my unknown reasons these funds were not paid in 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4997	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4998	Well, I have to say, I have a clear reason why the funds haven't been paid off. I'll wait when my colleagues are done. I would ask you because it is a matter of the start of the programme and of course it is necessary to pay off these funds for last year, but in that programme from last year it is evident that certain legal entities and primarily agricultural cooperatives met certain conditions which did not have in 2003. For these reasons, to continue this well-started project if the requirements for these last year alone are met means that this year will not be able to go any further, and for these reasons it will be given an increase in these funds to continue the construction of the coolant and I believe you agree that it is necessary in Croatia. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u4999	Thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? The amendment did not receive the required majority, it was not accepted. Amendment 120. The same representatives of Ms. Lalic, Pankretic, Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5000	It's unacceptable. The planned funds are sufficient for the preparatory activities of the establishment of a agricultural chamber during this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5001	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr Pankretić!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5002	It is also clear to Mr. Minister that if a agricultural chamber is to be established, the elections will be made that they are insufficient. We led them last year in this amount but for the reason that an objectively prepared law was to determine that part and if it really wants to establish a Croatian agricultural chamber 500 thousand kuna is insufficient. Therefore, I can only estimate that it is then not to be done in 2004 and then ask for a vote to ensure the funds and to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5003	Thank you very much. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the votes he needed. 121. Representatives Mato Arlović, Mato Gavran, Ljubica Brdarić, Željka Antunović and Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5004	Amendments are not accepted. The aid for crop insurance is planned in the position of promoting agricultural production 56-80-24. The applicant shall be granted support under a single insurance policy of up to 25% of the cost of the total insurance premium. I would like to point out that there is a process of data processing for recognised 2003 rights to be paid in this year. So there's only funds on the second item.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5005	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5006	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. It is evident from the current course of debate that this Vlda does not only not intend to respect the Constitution and the law but intends to systematically violate them. By virtue of the law adopted by this high House, the Law on the Defence System against the Fight, Article 13 said that the funds for the implementation of the operations of the defence against the fight are secured from the state budget and from the following sources, including 30% of the funds of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry provided for by the position of an incentive to secure crops. As we thought the government had made an oversight, we've been trying to fix that oversight with this amendment, but this isn't about oversight, this is about intent. We talked about the defense against the fight, and in previous amendments, we explained them. I'll say that at least we in Slavonia have a few reasons for this law and defense system from the fight to exist. It is the first protection of the property of all citizens because it is not just agriculture and facilities and movable property. And the second part of the only factory in Croatia that... Someone's shutting down, I'm sorry some people here don't want to hear what's true. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So, weak defense from the fight. The only factory that produces anti-struction missiles is Djura Djakovic's tool. I ask you to vote on this amendment and representatives to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5007	Thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to a vote that the government doesn't normally accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 122. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5008	Same amendment. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5009	Same amendment. No need to vote, we've solved this amendment. 123. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5010	The amendments are not accepted for the simple reason that we have a significant increase in this position, an increase compared to last year when the budget means 15 million in 2003, and now there are 40 million 427 thousand and 31 kuna in the budget, which we hold in mind that we will be able to encourage certain programmes foreseen by the rural development programme such as rural development, conservation of original and protected breeds and marketing preparation of agricultural products.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5011	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zlatko Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5012	Thank you very much. We accept this argument in the sense that it is true that there is a significant increase in funds, but there are three more possible years of adaptation to the European Union in front of Croatia. Everything that happens in the European Union around agriculture will depend on how successfully Croatia will adapt to the European Union. Rural space, the development of rural space in 2006 becomes the primary issue for the European Union, so it will reduce subsidies and incentives, will increase rural development funds. Croatia has just begun this project and Croatia must rapidly develop a rural development project if we want to preserve the population in the country if we want our villages to not completely relax. I'm not sure if we miss that chance this year that we can do it in the next two years. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5013	Thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're moving on to the 124th Amendment. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5014	Amendments are not accepted for reasons and part of the budgetary constraints and for the reason that we have an increase in this position compared to the last year of 192 million kuna. I would also like to emphasise that, after the budget is adopted, we will establish national quotas for certain productions, meaning for the production of plant cultures, which I must stress last year was not the case. For these reasons, today we find ourselves in a very difficult situation with the payment of unsettled commitments from 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5015	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, Goldilock.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5016	Thank you very much. I would not continue to discuss with the minister how much was spent in this position last year or how much was to be spent. And he and I both know that actually the reduction in that item was caused by drought. However, Mr Ministers and you and I know that the key issue is the protection of domestic production and the success of adapting our agriculture in the conditions of competition for European Union agriculture in this item. And you and I both know that there are three possible four years left for that adjustment. So until 2007 or 2008. Regardless of the difficulties in the budget, the opportunity to significantly increase resources in this item should not be missed. In view of international contracts, the agreement with the VTO is a permanent reduction in customs protection, given the constant increase in export subsidies to countries exporting to the Republic of Croatia, given the total high-sustained agriculture of the European Union, 50 billion euros, given the new dangers that are possible in the signing of Protocol 7., an increasing annual exemption is needed to encourage agriculture. Otherwise, we will witness the total collapse of domestic agriculture and the imports will slap us further if they do not flood. To avoid this there is only one model, to increase, to increase incentives, to invest, to invest in agriculture. If we want to enter the Euorbital Union, if we want to preserve peasants and agriculture, then we must do so regardless of the difficulties in the budget. It is a question of our peasant's competitiveness towards the European Union. Our peasant is not afraid of healthy competition, he's afraid... price, and today the Croatian peasants are exposed... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Prices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At least I'm declared Eurosceptics, I fear the consequences of your negative response. I'm afraid of that. The result is making sure that your answer looks forward to no less than five hundred thousand peasants who fear your negative response. Thank you very much. We're looking for a name vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5017	Thank you very much. This is where the HSS Club looked at the individual vote on the amendment. I've been working in the Parliament for 14 years that an individual vote has been requested for the amendment. But since it is not precise here, but for all votes it is determined that individual voting can be requested, I, of course, suggest that individual voting be approved but that, in the change or the Rules of Procedure, we specify this matter because this way, a session of Parliament can be held unconsciously. So, I'm calling on the Secretary of Parliament and I'm asking the Minister to give her a seat. The Secretary of Parliament for Individual Vote on Amendment 124. An HSS rep club that the government doesn't normally accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5018	Jen Adam, Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5019	Wait, yeah, who did you read?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5020	Jen Adam.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5021	And he's eating Adam. He's not here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5022	There isn't. Durđa Adlešić, Irena Ahel, Zdenko Antešić, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Željka Antunović, Franjo Arapović, Mato Arlović - za, Zdenka Babić-Petičević - v, Štjepan Bačić, Ivan Bagarić - v, Marija Bajt, Ivo Bebić - v, Snježana Biga-Friganovic, Danira Bilić - v, Jure Bitunjac - v, Florijan Boras, Draža Bošnaković, Ljubica Brletić - za, Mate Brletić - v, Mirjana Brnašić - v, Kayo Bučan - v, Perica Bukić - Zaljavić, Žaljavić - Žaljan Žačko Žač, Žaljan Žačko Žačko Žačko Ža, Žač, Žaljak - Zrad Žačakić - Žačko Žar, Žar, Žar, Žač, Žaljko Žar, Žar, Hr.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5023	It is now necessary to call again those who have not been reported voting on the list.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5024	Jene Adam, Zdenko Antešić-za, Željka Antunović-za, Ivo Banac, Snježana Biga Friganovic. Mate Brletić, Mato Churchvenac-za, Radimir Čačić-za, Ivan Čehok, Miljenko Doric- za, Valter Drandić, Anto Djapić-za, Sredko Ferenčak, Mirko Filopović, Silvano Hrrelja-prot, Nikola Ivaniš, Ivo Josipović, Vlado Jukić-za, Ljubo Jurčić-za, Damir Kajin, Miroslav Korenika, Alenka Košisa Čičina Šain-za, Zlatko Kramarić, Slaven Letica, Ivo Lončar, Marija Lugaric-za, Željko Nenadić, Ivica Pančić, Jelena Pavić, Dorotea Pešić Bukovac, Tonino Picula. Walter Poropat, Dragutin Pukleš, Milorad Pupovac. Ivica Racan, Furio Radin, Jozo Radoš, Miroslav Rožić, Vojislav Stanimirović, Darko Shantić, Vesna Škulić, Tonči Tadić, Shemso Tankovic, Davorko Vidović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5025	According to the count, 49 MPs voted in favour of the amendment, 71 against. The amendment didn't go through. Amendment number 125 of the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5026	Amendments are not accepted. The planned funds are sufficient for the reported number of beneficiaries of the 2004 income support. I would like to emphasise that in 2003 13 million 952 000 were paid and for 2004 the deadline for applying for this support group was extended to 20.3 this year, the current year. So to us, it is an intensity to separate the social part of agriculture from the commercial, income and market-oriented, but we believe that these funds provided for in this item will be sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5027	Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5028	In one part, I agree with Mr. Minister's explanation, but not at the level of money for non-commercial agricultural households. There's an additional 29 million kuna to be sought here. The resolution on commercial and non-commercial farmers is actually part of a very rough, difficult and long-term, primarily sociological but also economic process. Commercial should have trained for the market, but non-commercial must live, but also produce. It's mostly those people who have no conditions for any other care, for retirement, so people, women over 50, men over 55. In order for this system to work and for this category of peasants to be fully protected here, it will be necessary to make certain changes to the legislation. Our proposal is going to be, and we've been doing this in fact in this amendment, to increase income support from 600 kuna to 1.500,00 kuna. With these 1.500,00 kuna, that part of households that cannot deal with commercial agricultural production would have conditions for survival, but also for contributing to some common agricultural product market in Croatia. Don't forget that it's mostly those people who haven't been lucky enough to have a job, to secure some pensions, etc. And they're actually in heaven or on earth now. It is a serious part of the Croatian peasant population, and if we want to push commercial agricultural producers towards Europe, according to competition, if we want to adapt them to Europe, then we have to take care of this part. The projected funds aren't enough, we're looking for an additional 29 million kuna, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5029	Thank you very much. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 126 is the same as the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5030	This amendment is not accepted for the reason that in this position we have a six-fold increase compared to last year and for these reasons we have made maximum efforts here to respect the importance and importance of supporting and encouraging investments in agriculture and for these reasons we have gone with a maximum increase. I thank the gentlemen for the great concern expressed for agriculture, and I am pleased to see that within a relatively short time, a good part of people understands and respects the problem of agriculture and is starting to play a major role in agriculture, but here we have made the maximum effort and I say 600 times we have increased this item and I think we will be able to meet the needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5031	Agent Tomcic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5032	I am pleased that Mr. Minister respects the care of the agricultural agent, and I assure him that in the end he will be the most concerned. He will not accept the fact that in the last year, this institute has been applied only for three months, and therefore this disproportion in funds, and therefore we are looking for an additional 100 million kuna. The adjustment of Croatian agriculture to the European Union is an alpha and omega of the sustainability of Croatian agriculture and Croatian agriculture. This is what we should be in a hurry with. In earlier presentations, I emphasized that we have only three years left to adapt, including this year. People are not stimulated enough from the existing 250,000 kuna per hectare, we need to anticipate a much larger amount of resources and our proposal is exactly what it is because we are predicting the rise of this sum of 250 thousand kuna to 500 thousand kuna per hectare. Obviously, these 250 thousand kunas are not attractive enough, and Croatia will believe within a few years when areas in the vineyards are confused, when areas under certain other cultures, fruits, etc. Then we'll bang our heads against the wall where we were, why we didn't stimulate the promotion of those agricultural products that are currently deficited in Croatia. I ask you, Mr. Minister, to think about what I'm saying. In three or four years we'll meet in wonder if you don't accept this amendment. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5033	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 127 is the same as the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5034	It's unacceptable. Those funds cover the planned costs of interventions on the market such as the purchase of heroes and pigs and other intervention measures permitted by legal acts. Regardless of the amount of 60 million kuna I am convinced that the best and best quality way to use it will not happen if 105 million kunas are spent from this item in the previous year for the storage of wheat, and we know what amount of wheat they were last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5035	Dear Representative Tomcic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5036	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If the item is an incentive and support, if it should actually be led in some way by adapting Croatian agriculture in terms of competitiveness towards the European Union, then this item is certainly a defence against the incompetence of Croatian peasants. We know the instability of the domestic market, we do not need to list the reasons for what it is. In the course of the year, the peasant is somehow adjusted if the incentives for support are as correct as possible and if they are regularly paid, but they hit the instability of the market, the farmer simply cannot bear and therefore the harvest of the wheat is ahead of us, this year we will have several cycles of instability of the market with a June 8 kuna live scale, with a pork of 6 kuna live scales. It's a disaster for peasants, and that peasant just can't take it, and that's why we predicted this extra 40 million. But since this is the last amendment I'm going to defend, I'm going to say one more thing. The issue of agriculture is not only an economic issue, as it is trying to present itself to the Croatian public through the defence of the amendments to the Croatian Parliament today. The issue of agriculture is still a difficult sociological issue. Don't forget the fact that in this country, there are still 5 hundred thousand people living off agriculture, and if they won't adapt to competitiveness in the European Union, I don't know what you're going to do with them, Mr. Minister. That's what the villagers ask you. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5037	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 128. Representatives Ljubica Lalić, Bozidar Pankretić and Željko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5038	Amendments are not accepted. We believe that the planned funds are sufficient for the establishment of the agency and its initial start of work in 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5039	Representative Bozidar Pankretic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5040	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I think you are also aware if you are actively moving towards the establishment of the Croatian Food Agency, that the amount envisaged is certainly not sufficient. I think we all need to be aware of all those things that happened, which just happened yesterday, which is the liberalisation of the Croatian market, and especially the opening of the Croatian market for something that Croatia has now been closed for. For example, as far as I know, you signed yesterday and allowed imports from Austria and Finnish beef and live cattle. Of course we have something in this section to say about GMOs and all that's been happening these days. And we think that without a clear and good functioning of the Food Agency, it is certainly impossible to carry out all the processes ahead of us this year. Therefore, our good intention was to help this part and primarily protect domestic production in Croatia, in such a way as to do everything possible through all those opportunities provided by the Food Act through the Food Agency. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5041	Thank you. Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't get enough votes. Amendment 129 of the same group of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5042	It is not accepted because we hold that these funds co-finance the preparation of documents, and in accordance with the national programme for increasing fish production and consumption in the Republic of Croatia, after the adoption of sublegal acts that will regulate fish sales, capital investment will be planned in the coming years in the construction of fishery wholesalers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5043	Representative Pankretic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5044	I think you, Mr. Minister, are aware that a million kunas are completely insufficient. That there are even more serious thoughts about fishermen. I think that part of the money that was so far intended for a wholesaler who would be on Vis and that part, of course, is not enough. We must be aware that if we want to take a step in this area, and you know for yourself that this project to develop national fisheries and increase fish consumption we have come to the data in Croatia, that if 8kg per capital in relation to our environment where 16kg per capital is fish consumption, it certainly requires us to strengthen this infrastructure, and especially regarding the market. You know, for example, that neighbouring Italy as well as I have 60 majors and that in that part without co-financing of the state, especially the competent ministry, we will not be able to step forward. We started a good thing on Komiža, it should certainly continue in that part, but it is insufficient because for sure only if we had one wholesaler we can't go in the direction that this requires a national fisheries development programme and an increase in fish consumption. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5045	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. I would only quote to set a break from 14 to 15 hours. From 14 to 15 o'clock, the MPs are counting on it. Amendment number 130 of the same group of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5046	It's unacceptable. The funds are planned to co-finance 10% of the value of the type-ship construction project in accordance with the national programme for increasing fish production and consumption in the Republic of Croatia. Co-financing is carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5047	Representative Pankretic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5048	So of course this is about something that continues, I would say, one of the very good decisions of this Parliament, which is to extend jurisdiction on the Adriatic Sea. Of course, in order to use that part, we must improve our fleet. I think it is clear to all of us that if we don't do it now and we are going to have a lot of problems at the time of entering the European Union because we know that in this respect there are significant in the European Union, I would say, measures which are more drastic in this regard and not even going in the direction of developing certain fleets. We know where our fishing fleet is in that part and this project that started last year, which, as you said, is supported by other ministries, needs to be significantly accelerated. I think in that part, our goal was to increase these funds five times because in this year, if we don't do it next year or next year, it's gonna be too late. I'm asking for a vote because of this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5049	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative, Amendment 131 of mata Gavran, Mate Arlovic, Dragice Zgrebec and Ljubice Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5050	Amendments are not accepted. Irrigation of agricultural areas is our strategic definition, but I would like to stress that this year, we will be preparing documentation and the model by which the irrigation system will be implemented. I would also like to stress that, within the head of the water economy, additional irrigation funds amounting to 19 million kuna have been planned. Significant capital investments are planned in 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5051	Here you go, fellow Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5052	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm glad the government, here, planned 23 million kunas, but according to our estimates, it's insufficient for such a serious project. Of course, praise is a valuable project. And in an explanation, allow me to quote Dr. Ivo Sanader, Prime Minister, as spoken in Slavonski Brod on March 21st. Citation: "It is unacceptable that we have not solved this problem before, and certainly, we have already decided at a meeting of the Government in Split that we are going to this irrigation project and I am putting it at the level of the construction of highways. As the historical importance of building the Zagreb-Split highway is so important is the implementation of the irrigation project.", finished quote. By trusting the Prime Minister, we have managed, and with the intention of of course to build and go into irrigation, we have managed to learn that 4 million kunas planned in this position, 19 on the other is not enough for a serious idea solution, or an idea project, and therefore we propose this amendment. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5053	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 132. MPs... Not the same, MPs Ljubica Lalic, Bozidar Pankretić and Željko Pecek. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5054	It's the same thing I said, it's not accepted for the reasons I spoke of in the previous amendment. I would like to stress that we must use this year to design the project and prepare the project. It's too serious a project to be able to enter into such a project without a single operational, designed and scientifically subdued programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5055	Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5056	For this very reason, which Mr. Minister has now said, we have also asked for an increase from 4 million to 10 million, because in that part of these 4 million I think the minister is also aware that it will not be enough because we know that only the Međimurje County has so far made such total projects and we know how much it cost that county if we know that it is necessary in most Croatian counties then we feel that it is really necessary to get into that part now so that then we can somehow predict certain larger funds, for real irrigation. So you need to enter the project documentation, do good labs in research, but for 4 million kunas you won't be able to do that, and that's why we're proposing here 10 million, which is one real amount, and I'm asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5057	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Amendment 133. Ljubice Lalic, Bozidar Pankretić and Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5058	It's unacceptable. We respect the importance of research in agriculture, the needs of scientific research in agriculture, and, while respecting that fact, we have increased the circulation of a million kunas this item compared to 2003, which is realistic for these budget options.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5059	Representative Bozidar Pankretić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5060	We're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5061	Thank you. 134. Representatives Ljubica Lalic, Bozidara Pankretić and Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5062	The amendment is not accepted, I would like to stress that this is a new item within the division of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy and we believe that these funds are sufficient for 2004 to start with activities involving the preparation of actions for two-year activities that will be implemented through adopted land management programmes by priority areas in cooperation with local self-government and county units. The funds are planned to join at the level of the county and local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5063	Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5064	I can say that this argument, which the minister said, is partly acceptable because it is true that, unfortunately, almost 13, 14 years in this part of the land arrangement, almost nothing or an insufficient source of funds has been invested. This is how land planning is being started and I am glad that Mr. Minister continues the project that was launched and the plan from last year. I believe that in that part, if it continues with serious work on land planning here, I think it is primarily necessary to start with the commissions, because unfortunately, without good regulation of agricultural land, we will not be able to talk about the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture without repeating it but it is good to say without well-prepared agricultural land which is of course our competitiveness is small and then, of course, big problems about entering the European Union. Since I see that there is a good intention to move in this direction, I will withdraw my amendment, but I hope that these 15 million will be realised in the planning of the land and these projects. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5065	I thank Representative Bozidar Pankretić. Amendment of 135th legislator Marin Jurjevic, Dragica Zgrebec and Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5066	Amendments are not accepted. No investment technical documentation has been prepared for that programme and the project is not ready for implementation in the proposed amount. But part will be financed through the regular plan of the Croatian Waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5067	Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5068	Dear Minister, I am very surprised that you did not accept this amendment because when it comes to islands, then all the mouthful of promises and were and this amendment would actually ensure that for the development of the island of Korčula, Lastovo and Mljet and the peninsula of Pelješac is provided from the valley of Neretva, so what is necessary and that it is water to complete the construction of a regional water pipeline that would lead to both these islands and Pelješac. As it is known, this regional water line has been started in the 80s and until today it is not finished, it should not even mention what water means for the islands that this waterwater represents the backbone of the future development of these islands, tourism, agriculture and the survival of people on these islands, and that means those demographic reconstructions and population renewals and even the preconditions to keep people on the islands and we have talked a lot about the necessity of demographic restoration these days, etc., so I think this is in a much higher rank than what we voted yesterday to restore demographically. And I think the islands have a specific status, and they're something to pay special attention to, so now here's another time I'm very surprised you didn't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5069	You want a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5070	Yeah, yeah. Maybe he'll change his mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5071	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 136th Amendment of MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5072	I do not accept the amendments to respect the thinking of the MPs about the need to invest both in the coast and in the islands, but in order to access the investment at all, I think it is generally known that we should have prepared investment technical documentation, which we should take here when we talk about this amendment in the case of water supply, for the first phase of the local water supply network in the settlements of Vir is not the case. The construction of the Master's Pipeline to the Vir settlement is also not completed. As for sewerage, the project will be financed by local self-government and Croatian waters depending on the degree of preparation of technical documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5073	Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5074	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't think your argument is satisfactory and it's partly not true. Because Croatian waters have just accepted what you have said is a prerequisite for meeting the potential and demand of this kind, however, I note that the amendment was firstly proposed since the joint financing agreement was concluded on the construction of the water and sewerage system of the settlement Vir and it was found by this agreement that in 2004 the competent ministry would provide 9 million kuna, Croatia water 9 and 500, and the municipality of Vir, which has recently increased its own budget, has the power to participate in this project with 5 million kuna. Therefore, according to what he said and his colleague Jurjevic, this concern for the islands can be viewed in such an act as to satisfy this truly justified act, this is no one's whim, but this is indeed justified if we know what the situation in this Virus is and how much water and sewerage they need. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5075	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, the amendment didn't get the necessary majority. The 137th representative of Anton Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5076	Amendments are not accepted and some of the funds will be provided through the management plan of Croatian waters and funds of the county and investors according to the signed letter.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5077	Dear Mr. Peruscoe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5078	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to say that the question of the fate of this amendment and the development and health and political issue for the citizens of the city of Pazin and the citizens of Istria is developmental because there is no further development without a solution to this significant problem for the town of Pazin, and we know that the pazi economy has fallen and devastated in fact in the Croatian model of privatisation. Another health care since the town of Pazin is located in a very sensitive water protection area with numerous underground flows and has, the non-resolvement of this issue has an impact on the wider area of Istria. And thirdly, because HDZ colleagues, organisations, HDZ county organisations, said on one press 15 days ago that the HDZ government has done more for Istria than Racanov over the past 4 years in the last two months, and now this is an opportunity to vote on this amendment, which I have no doubt expressed that concern for development projects in Istria, so I ask it to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5079	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 138 of Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5080	The amendment is not accepted because we hold that the project is not ready for construction because there is not fully prepared investment and technical documentation, and most of the programme is a local network which is in the jurisdiction of the Waters Act of the local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5081	Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5082	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the issue of water supply today is the issue of prosperity, the future, demographic renewal and everything the water carries. The Municipality of Primošten, or part of the hinterland, is exactly the part where the project is being implemented, and by today almost from its own resources the units of local self-government have provided nearly 4 million kuna and continues with the programme. Let's go, the documentation for the realisation of this main stock has been prepared and the municipality participates in it and therefore these funds are necessary at this height of 5 million and 600 to continue this whole project because it is also ongoing at the moment so it would not be good for Mr. Minister to stop it. It can be encouraged, it can be continued but to reject it I think it would be the wrong message, but also to stop this important project so that the entire municipality of Primosten and that part of the region that is, despite the great exposure and all the difficulties in these difficult areas, has survived, and it shows some signs of relive, relive, demographic renewal and all that I believe we all stand for. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5083	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. 139th also representing Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5084	The amendment is not accepted but is also nominated for implementation through the water pollution protection programme in the coastal area through the project “Adriatic”. So he's going after the other basics of the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5085	Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5086	Thank you very much. Of course, I am pleased that the project will continue and that the realization of sewerage and wastewater for municipalities of St. Philip and James, Pakostane and the town of Biograd will be implemented and in this sense I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5087	I'd like to thank Agent Ante Markov. Amendment 140. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5088	The amendment is not accepted. I would like to emphasise that, after a certain delay, activities on the Eastern Slavonia regional water line will be restarted and that the planned funds and resources of the Croatian Waters programme will build up the facilities for which investment and technical documentation is prepared.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5089	Representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5090	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm really surprised now that even this amendment isn't acceptable since it's an investment that's scheduled for 7 years 671 million kuna, and if we go with about 6 million kuna like this, we probably won't experience that, we won't experience that, yes, that we'll have that eastern water line. And this project is of interest also in Vukovar-Srijemska and Brod-Posavia and Osijek-Baranja, so I thought at least the minister from that county would now accept and I would say, "Here are the people you see that the minister is not bound by party chains but has an understanding of his end." Now unfortunately, after all this, I have to convey a message: “Dear Slavons, here’s a message from your first neighbor Sremec that you have no water for irrigation, no water supply, no... [[Intruder: That there is no understanding.]] for anti-urban missiles, a very ugly message. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5091	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. This also consumed the next amendment 141. Amendment 142, Madam Representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5092	The amendment is not accepted but I would like to stress that the planned funds, the planned funds and the resources of the Croatian Waters programme will build facilities for which technical investment documentation is prepared. And here I'd like to point out one more thing. We are only discussing that part of the funds that goes through the Ministry, but there is also a significant part of the funds that goes through Croatian waters. And so this is not the only amount of funds we are discussing here, but that part of the funds is being added to the amount from Croatian waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5093	Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5094	Unfortunately, Mr. Minister, I do not know from the Budget of Croatian Waters how much these resources are, and given that, and since it is impossible to read this, and we in the conversation a few days ago touched this problem I unfortunately have no answer to today and therefore I have submitted this amendment. Namely, the regional water supply system of Gorsko kotar is a project whose construction takes several years, and the amount of 7 million kunas would ensure the completion, completion of the master's pipeline, the building facility for the construction of the built-up part and the construction of the temporary waterway, and given the climate specificities of the Gorski kotar that cause spring and autumn floods that can pollute and cloud the natural water streams, I ask that this amendment be approved and the amount requested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5095	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 143, Mr. Agent Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5096	Unfortunately, we cannot accept the amendment. The explanation is as for the previous amendment. I would like to stress that the items of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy for this water supply system project of the Koprivnica and Križevci County are provided with 5 million kuna, as well as that a significant part of the funds will be provided in positions and through Croatian Water Programmes. And I also have to point out again we can't, there's going to be that part of the facility for which there's investment-technical documentation. The possession of investment-technical documentation is a basic prerequisite for any further activity and investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5097	Thank you. Agent Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5098	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Minstre, ladies and gentlemen, let's hear otherwise a stream of water supply system in the Republic of Croatia is at 70 or more percent. While I come from Koprivnica-križevci County, where only 20 to 22 or 25% are covered by a water supply system. And despite the fact that we lie in one area of drinking water as a pool, established, and we need to supply it further. We build, build and now we build highways. There's no possibility of connecting the so-called. those by their system, because such cities were before and the Koprivnica-Crission were in three parts as it was divided, and should be joined together. I assure you that these funds are being given to join with the bank's funds with the local administration units have produced exceptional results for us. I have no illusions of why it is not now accepted. But the damage is caused by this population that has not yet been able to supply drinking water. So I welcome this endeavor of yours and the suggestion that there are other means, though. and we're processing software and technical implementing documentation, and we think at least there's a lot more hearing to get extra funding and that it could be built. I'm asking for a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5099	Please. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. One notice on the change in the period of the 2nd session of the Justice Committee, which was scheduled for today at 13:30 is postponed, and will be held tomorrow at 9pm at Hall 133/1 with agenda point, giving opinions and appointment of judges of County, Commercial, Municipal and Criminal Courts in the Republic of Croatia. And a session of the Interparliamentary Cooperation Committee instead of tomorrow will be held today at 14 o'clock in Hall 84. Amendment 144 of Mrsic's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5100	We don't accept the amendment. It's worth the same explanation I gave for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5101	Representative Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5102	Well, dear Minister, I am sorry that you do not accept this amendment, because you were recently with the Prime Minister in Koprivnica-Kristevnica County, where you and he promised to support the development of water supply, since the Koprivnica-Cristeva County is a county where less than 30% of the population has the opportunity to join the public water supply system. We have technical documentation, we have building permits. This is an investment study that was produced by Croatian Waters, which was accepted by Croatian Waters, and where it says that this year Croatian Waters should also be given from the state budget between 23 million kuna and 37 million kuna, depending on the degree of technical documentation. These are the crumbs you're giving us. It can make eight kilometers of the master's water supply, and it's certainly completely insufficient. I must say that the annual Croatian waters are harvested in the area of Koprivnica and Križevci County over 20 million kunas of income on various grounds. And it would be fair at least to return that income to the Koprivnica-Crysing County, because we're not looking for four-way roads, we're not looking for what, we're asking for people to have water. In the morning, the maids carry milk to the milk shop, then with these same buckets they go for water to have water for themselves and for cattle. And they're only a few meters from Drava. The groundwaters have fallen so much, there is no water left in the well, and the survival of these people and agriculture in the area of Koprivnica-križevci County is at risk, precisely because of the water supply. It would be much easier for us to decide if you provided us with a projection of Croatian waters, which we have asked you to. But I think if we don't realize this year's first year of investment of 86 million kuna that it's going to be a disaster for our county. I ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5103	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 145 of Mršić and Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5104	We don't accept the amendment. Because of the lack of resources and the possibility of providing more resources. We have made extreme efforts to track down specific projects in areas where, as already said by Mr. MPs, water supplies are represented in a relatively small percentage. But we also have to be aware that in one year we can't make this kind of effort, to solve what hasn't been solved in a relatively long time, to solve everything in one year. We must respect the current possibilities of the budget. There are also certain resources for this part in positions and through Croatian Waters programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5105	Thank you. Comrade Mršić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5106	Well, unfortunately, I have to express my regret again. Bjelovar-Bilogor County is also a county where less than 30% of households have the possibility of water connection. Water is a fundamental need for households, so more than bread. And we can't set a priority here, but we're giving a five million kuna crumb again. With 5 million kunas, you can make 8 kilometers of master's water supply. Where citizens of local self-government units need to invest further in the construction of a secondary network in the area of these units of local self-government. I said when discussing the budget, that water supply in four counties of Koprivnica-križevanjačka, Bjelovarsko-Biogorje, Požega and Zagrebačka, which have built investment studies and projects and development studies, must be given the status of a national project because it is an opportunity for people to live at all. It's easy to live in a town where you have water, but in a village where your well is dried up, and you don't have water, you just can't live anymore. I expected there to be a little more understanding. Hundreds of millions of kunas are not required, 20 million kunas are sought, which would be enough with the funds of the county and municipalities and cities, to create significant projects, projects are 5-year-old, and that would be quite enough to do so. And here, for example, more than 30 million kunas have been invested in the Bjelovar-Belova County over the past year and a half. Now if we stop this, we'll cancel the results that were made by building the Bjelovar-Stefanje-Cazma Master's Pipeline. I believe and expect that at least through Croatian waters you will have an understanding of this massive need, this is not a luxury, this is simply a prerequisite for people in this area to survive. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5107	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 146th Amendment of the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5108	Amendments are not accepted. I'd say an explanation similar to the last one. The ministry already has the greatest efforts to provide and this amount of funds, and I respect as I have already said before the need for more intensive water supply development, but it is also a fact that in one financial year when practically this budget will be 9 months, not all the accumulated problems in this branch of the economy can be solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5109	Thank you very much. This is the exact same amendment we had before, so it was consummated with an earlier decision. The next amendment of Zdenka Chuhnil, also consummated with the amendment, Amendment 145. 148th representative Marija Lugarić and Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5110	This amendment is not accepted because there is no possibility of increasing the planned funds and the same applies to the previous that part of the funds will, in fact, be provided in Croatian waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5111	Dear Representative Mršić, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5112	But respected ministers, and so far it has been done that part of the funds has been provided in Croatian waters and part in the budget. We're talking here now about the funds that we think should be secured in the budget. This is really about the minimum means and I'm going to be a little naughty right now. You've increased your travel expenses more, you're buying cars, and here people won't have the money to build a master's water supply. It's about our own need. We have four counties that have a very small possibility of joining people in public water supply. It's about master lines, it's about where you really need to get the money that's being collected on the basis of Croatian waters. Croatian waters charge four charges to people in the area of Croatian water citizens. And that's all they need to get back. If it returned to them and not redistributed some other landscapes, then it would be possible for all of these needs to be watered by the device. And I think that here if we're looking for a lot of resources here it's really about some minimum means but that will allow people in suburban settlements to get final water and stay living in those areas. These efforts should be supported and they should be seen who and how they pay and the burdens that Croatian waters have and thus repositioned them back rather than taken without being defacto left without water. I'm asking for a statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5113	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 149 of MPs Željko Pecek, Ljubice Lalic and Bozidar Pankretić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5114	Amendments are not accepted. And for one complete piece of information. I still owe you a few things to say. I absolutely respect the need to say on several occasions more significant water supply development and also water treatment. And Croatia also leads according to a certain law prescribed by law to make certain revenues. Normally, they make these revenues in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia and normally distribute them in this way. But I must say that, based on water supply and capital projects for water supply and water treatment last year, the amount secured at the position of the Ministry of one other public works of reconstruction and development amounted to 73 million. We were in this year when it was transferred to the positions of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the water economy managed to secure 80 million. I am aware that it is for the needs of relatively small money but I want to stress that we have done as well as at certain other positions that we have made maximum efforts in the given frameworks in real budget possibilities. Normally, as a resolute minister, it would be far happier and far more satisfying for us, based on projects like this and situations like this on the ground, if we could secure ten times as much resources, but gentlemen, I think we need to be realistic and come to terms with the real contexts and possibilities. And normally, this is not the type of situation in water supply and water treatment this year, but it was worse in the previous period.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5115	Representative Ljubica Lalić, go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5116	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, I'm glad you're full of understanding, but we'd like it even more if you could prove that you have an understanding because just crying, we don't have anything and Slavonia's lying on the water. We have thirsty fields, we have thirsty people now, and now we're wondering if the water project is more important because it's important to people or are roads. In our opinion, a more important project is the water from the roads. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5117	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 150 of the same group of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5118	Excuse me, what's the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5119	Amendment to the 150th Amendment of Ljubica Lalić, Bozidar Pankretić and Željko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5120	Amendments are not accepted. For that programme, no investment and technical documentation has been prepared entirely while part of the project for which investment and technical documentation is available will be financed from the funds of the regular plan of Croatian Waters, County, units of local self-government. And yet I think there would be no more confusion when I say that I am aware of significantly larger resources but that we are building within the limits of the possible and that here and in these important positions we have a significant increase compared to the previous term and year in that period.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5121	Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, it is evident that this increase of 750 thousand kuna is not something that is unrealistic but really what is here is obtained from local self-government, which they claim exists and technical documentation and is possible in this year. So I'd say this is an amendment that's definitely in line in that part. It's not some huge asset, it's a 750,000-dollar asset. I have to point out and connect here and to the debates that the amendments have been before. We must be aware that in the continental part we have an extremely large water supply problem, especially with the network. A little less has been done with certain regional water lines, but that's still not enough. The development of the regional network is necessary and, for these reasons, it is certainly necessary that this increase, I repeat, is not such a large amount that it could not be found. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5123	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 151 of the same group of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5124	Amendments are not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5125	An explanation, for what.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5126	Say it briefly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5127	It will be built by the Croatian Waters, so the Croatian Waters programme will include the construction of facilities for which there is a prepared investment and technical documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5128	Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5129	I am sorry that Mr. Minister tried to pass through this amendment quickly even though he may not be fully aware of what the amendment is about. It is an amendment that speaks of the regional water pipeline Zagreb, which was built for 18 years and finally completed in the past year 2003, but completed only to the town of Vrbovac, which, with great resources in the past 20 years, has participated in this construction. However, of course it is now from Vrbovac to surrounding municipalities such as Preseca, Rakovec, Dubrava has no net and one necessity of such an operation is necessary to continue it in that part. And please, and I don't understand why, given that there is documentation, there is everything in that part that this project is now not continuing and that it has been completely kicked out of the general system that was previously in Croatian waters because every year it has been co-financed to this part. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5130	Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 152. Ljubice Lalic, Bozidar Pankretić and Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5131	Amendments are not accepted. These planned funds and funds through the Croatian Waters programme will build facilities for which there is investment technical documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5132	Representative Bozidar Pankretic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5133	Well, here, this is the last amendment in this part of which we have given, I would also say about part of Sisak-Moslavina County but also part of Zagreb County in this part of Moslavina where the situation is also completely identical, so I would also say to all these situations that we have heard from Koprivnica-križevčka, Virovitski-Bjelovar County and in that part the necessity of such investment in water supply is really something that I believe that further efforts must be made in that part. Also in this section is required to increase from a million and 500 thousand kuna to 2.5 million kuna as it begins with that investment and it is evident that this money will be spent. Well, I'm looking for this effort to get into the part of that project of Croatian Waters that wasn't recorded here and that we didn't get to support. But I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5134	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The next amendment to the 153th Amendment of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain was consulted because it was completely identical. 154th Amendment of MP Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5135	Amendments shall not be accepted for the reason that no investment technical documentation has been prepared for that project. This project is not ready for implementation at the intended amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5136	Representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5137	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, this is, uh, paperwork has been prepared and is located in a water pipeline in a society, a company of capital in Slavonski Brod. This is about a very serious problem. It's a water supply facility for the entire Orjovac municipality. I'd like to talk with special piety about that part for the reason it's a nephropathic area. Nephropathy is an incurable disease, nephropathy has destroyed villages there, neforopathy gets people sick today. This area has 30 years of water, and since last year it has only technical water, water that is forbidden to drink. This area has no wells, this area is visited daily by ambulances and taken to chemo, to therapy. I don't think the amount of a million-and-a-half kuna is a large sum, for those 5 thousand and 700 residents who live daily in fear and daily of these 5 thousand and 700 inhabitants bury their dead from nephropathy. I'm asking for a vote if you won't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5138	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 155 of Representative Luke Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5139	Amendments are not accepted because no investment technical documentation has been prepared for that programme. This project is not ready for implementation in the proposed amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5140	Representative Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5141	There, and another amendment that actually speaks of the same topic of water supply. It is about the completion of the construction of the regional water pipeline Neretva, Pelješac, Korčula, Lastovo. And not to repeat everything others have said about supply in the continental part. I would just add that it is even more pronounced on our traditionally thirsty Croatian islands. And you will agree to the development of the island of Korčula, Lastova, Mljet and Pelješac peninsula and the Neretva valley it is necessary to build a regional water pipeline that leads the drinking water from the Neretva valley to the inhabitants of these islands. As is known, this regional water pipeline was launched in the '80s and has not yet been completed by today. It is certainly the backbone of any future development of tourism and agriculture but certainly the condition for the survival of life on our Croatian islands. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5142	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get enough votes. 156 amendments by Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5143	The proposed amendment is not accepted, maximum efforts have been made in the given frameworks and, due to insufficient financial opportunities, we cannot accept this amendment as well as most before them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5144	Representative Jagoda Martic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5145	Well, the fact that you don't accept the amendment doesn't surprise me, in the wake of all this that we've seen today, that no amendment has actually been accepted. The amendment requires the realization of the sewerage project and the settlements of Krvavac as well as the arrangement of the coastal sewerage of the ravine. I note that the village of Krvavac and this coastal sewerage is a part of the municipality of Kula Norinska, which is a municipality of special state concern. In the context of the amendment, I also cited the way in which the financing was financed, meaning the financial structure in which Croatian waters would participate, which were also committed to the construction of the Funding Treaty, the above mentioned works to be signed by Croatian Waters, the Ministry and the Municipality of Kula Norinska, which determines the deadline for the implementation of the works in 2004. And contracts have been prepared on how to finance. Here, I'm looking at Mr. Bebić, he's from these parts, and according to that, this situation must be better known to him than it is to me, so I hope he supports this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5146	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 157 to MP Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5147	Amendments are not accepted. We stand at the point that the city of Pula needs to make a decision on the acceptance of the concept of the disposal system and a new investment programme is needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5148	Agent Cain, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5149	Yes, it is true that it is not only the problem of the competent ministry or Croatian water industry but also the city of Pula. However, I would like to say that it is one of the most important infrastructure projects not only in the city of Pula but also in the county of Istria. And we believe that if these almost symbolic funds were provided in this year's budget in order to trigger in some way the competent city administration to seriously start thinking about the sewerage of that largest Istrian centre. The programme a few years ago entered the concept of "thinking" under the allegations of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it is true, after which it was stopped from me for unknown reasons. But I do believe that if there were one under quotes one gesture from the competent ministry that maybe the investment could be renewed. And I would ask so many MPs to support me in that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5150	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. 158th Representative Željko Pecek, Ljubice Lalic and Bozidar Pankretić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5151	Amendments are not accepted. The project will be financed by local self-government and Croatian waters depending on the degree of preparation and technical documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5152	Representative Zeljko Pecek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5153	Dear Mr. Minister, I would like to say that in the area of Rijeka County sewerage exists only in traces, all in four settlements. The documentation for all three running projects was made for both Virovitica and Slatina. Of course it's easy to answer how it's going to be financed by the funds of the local self-government units, it's a model that's mostly true for our area. But if this is the position on the budget here, it's a transfer to the local self-government unit, so it's free and free. That is why I suggest that at least those projects that have already begun to try them through these changes that I am proposing in the form of amendments to complete them. So I do not accept the explanation that this will be co-financed from the budget of cities and municipalities because you are not in charge of these budgets you are in charge of the budget of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5154	The vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 159 to Alenka Kosia Chichin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5155	The amendments are not accepted, and we hold that the amount offered will be provided through a water management plan for Croatian Waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5156	Alenka Koshasha's representative Chichin Shain, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5157	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, I would like to point out that this is only about an increase of one million so the amendment proposed an increase from 2 million to 3 million kuna. In order to complete the burning of transport collector 3 construction of the S4 collection collection collection. CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE TRANSPORT COLLECTOR 1. Which would collect waste water from the area of the right bank of the river Kupa and thereby lead to the location of the future treatment plant. I would point out that this project has a fully prepared technical file, I can even give you the notes that the company made it, it built a hydroelectric project. The total project is worth 200 million 267 million. And it's planned in 10 years. For this year, according to the investment documents, an investment of 23 million is planned and I consider this increase in the share of the state part from the Ministry of the Million kuna from 2 to 3 million is easy to empower if that amount would be removed from the heading of the increase that took place in the Ministry of Finance's position where this year's 600 thousand kuna is plannedly millill and 400 thousand kuna. So when you remove those means of repertion it will just be as much to add to this item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5158	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the required number of votes. 160 club representatives of IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5159	Amendments are not accepted, and according to the signed letter, part of the funds for the wastewater treatment device will be provided through the water management plan of Croatian waters and the funds of the county and investors.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5160	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5161	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the geographical position of Pazina is such that he must have a wastewater purifier by being in that pruning karst terrain and there is a great danger of pollution of drinking water sources for all of Istria. However, since the minister pointed out that these funds will be in the funds and part of the Croatian waters, I am withdrawing this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5162	Thank you, Agent Poropato. 161 Amendment of Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5163	An amendment is not accepted for the simple reason that the investment is not ready for implementation because no construction permit has been issued.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5164	Agent Lesar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5165	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. You probably know that Međimurje has a wastewater disposal study covering the entire territory of the county and that all municipalities and cities in Međimurje have decided to solve the wastewater disposal system with a joint project based on this study. It's probably one of the few examples that we have in the country right now, that the whole project is based on the entire territory of the county. Pribisalec, yes, it is, and the location permit is correct. A building permit will be issued tomorrow. However, through the settlement in the building is collector 4 or the start of the construction of sewers in Pribislavac now. It would cost the total investment because the works would take place all of a sudden. The second, no Inter-Majmir project according to the state budget, and these amendments did not run if it did not provide at least 50% of the total investment. And I end up having a national programme for Roma in this country, that in the village or municipality of Pribislavec a quarter of the population is members of the Roma national community. And these were all arguments why we offered you this amendment of only a million and a half kuna to start the investment. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5166	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 162 also representing Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5167	Amanman is not accepted by millions and 500 thousand kunas, and according to a signed multi-year co-financing agreement, the funds will be provided so that these funds will be provided through the water management plan of Croatian waters and other signatories of the agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5168	Agent Lesar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5169	On the territory of the municipality of Nedelisce there is a water supply site from which 75% of the population in Međimurje is supplied with drinking water. At the same time there is also a collector 3 who from Sunday through Staholinec, Savska Ves brings waste water from opportunity to the quantities of one third of the entire county, to a purifier that has been successfully functioning for several years. The Minister is right. And in this investment 50% of the funds are provided by local self-government and Croatian water, but according to the agreement that you listed in this year, the state budget should be provided by two and a half million kuna, which is why this amendment is also given. So that agreement you quoted in it reads two and a half times this calendar year. Not a million and a half. Therefore, an increase is proposed. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5170	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. It also consumed amendment number 163 of Ms. Dragica Zgrebec. Amendment 164 to the representative of Draguin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5171	Amendments are not accepted and, in accordance with the signed multi-year co-financing contract, the funds will be provided through the Water Management Plan of Croatian Waters and other signatories of the contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5172	Agent Lesar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5173	It's also an investment that is under way with a contract signed and a triple. The town of Čakovec, Croatian water and state. According to the contract in this calendar year or budget year, Čakovec provides three and a half million kunas and is provided with funds, Croatia leads a million and a state budget p odome to the contract 2 million. I note that the investment is under way that the other investors...the town of Čakovec also borrowed credit because it was due to start and end within the planned deadlines. That it is a project that contains also the construction of collector 4 which collects all waste water from the north and we are again arriving at a purifier that has been working successfully for quite a long time. And in this investment local self-government has secured 50%, all government officials of all former and current governments are proud of Medjugorje, and some call us small Swiss, some Japanese. I'd like to ask the ministers that pride you have against Međimurje to turn into these two million kunas so I can be satisfied. Without sending a message to local self-government units that any agreement with the state on a joint long-term project is at stake if elections are in the meantime. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5174	Who is this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 165 amendments to Agent Neven Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5175	The proposed amendment is not accepted. The town of Omis has been nominated for implementation through the Water pollution protection programme in the coastal area, means the project "Adriatic", and no technical documentation is required for other coastal settlements. So as far as the city of Omis is concerned, it will be built through another programme, and for these coastal settlements it is necessary to provide normal technical documentation so that we can continue the work.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5176	Honorable representative of Neven Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5177	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. This large number of amendments from the water economy certainly show how much lagging behind in meeting the needs of citizens for water supply and disposal, and this is all really expensive, this kind of demand does not seem because this would result from a lot or abundance, it is really about our own needs. In this context of water, when we talk about water, there's really a terrible need here. However, it is the right of the Government to refuse an amendment requiring the state to participate in meeting the infrastructure environmental needs of its citizens. It is the right of the government not to meet the expectations of its citizens, but it is the constitutional obligation of the government to provide conditions for a healthy environment. It is the constitutional obligation of the Government to ensure, i.e. to pay particular attention to the protection of human health, nature, human environment, and that is what this amendment is about. It is a proposal to remove ecological barriers to the further development of tourism in settlements in the coast of Omis, where tourism is practically the only sustainable development perspective. Another lost tourist season due to the polluted sea would be another missed opportunity for Croatia to take small and concrete steps where it is most needed. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5178	Thank you. Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. One notice. The session of the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament at the Interparliamentary Union will be held at 14.00 at hall 233. Amendment 166 to Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5179	Amendments are not accepted. We remain at the amount of 2 million kuna, as no necessary project documentation is prepared for further investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5180	Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5181	Thank you. I'm kind of happy with the answer, because really a lack of documentation is what you can't do without. However, I note that this is a project which has been at debates in this House for many years, and we know that the city of Samobor and Zaprešić is also at risk, and directly the City of Zagreb. Thank you. I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5182	You're not looking? Thank you. The amendment has been withdrawn. 167 amendments by Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5183	Amendments are not accepted for reasons of lack of financial resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5184	It's a scone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5185	But Minister I'm not asking for money, I'm only asking to improve the text of an item. I didn't put an increase in the item, I was just asking to improve the text, to be precise enough. I don't see any reason why they wouldn't accept it, even that one. Make an exception. Your budget remains the same as your whole, but accept at least one amendment of the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5186	I'm voting on that amendment. Who's in? Thank you. He's not accepted. It is identical to the next amendment by MP Kolar, so it is consummated. 169 amendments to Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5187	The amendments are not accepted and we are unable to increase the amount, with the funding of the project being financed by the regular Croatian Water Plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5188	Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5189	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Ministers in the Municipality of Kravarsko and Popojsko for several years, an elemental accident has been declared due to drought. As a result, intensive works are being carried out to build state budgets from at least 3 to 5 million kunas in order to enable the completion of which it is necessary to increase the resources of the state budget from at least 3 to 5 million kuna in 2004 to allow for the release of that technical unit. So far, 50 million kuna has been invested in the investment and this is the final stage. Please support this amendment, gentlemen, and I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5190	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't make it. 170 representatives of Ljubica Lalić, Bozidar Pankretić and Željko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5191	We do not accept the amendment and I believe that we have made maximum efforts to make this position a means for the Croatian Institute for... the service because we significantly increased it compared to the previous year. [[You don't understand.]] With 18 million and 390 thousand this year, it has increased to 23 million and 129 thousand, which we keep realistically as much as possible for this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5192	Representative Bozidar Pankretić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5193	Well, I expected the Honorable Mr. Minister to finally say that this means that these 170 employees who are currently there will be increased by these 10 trainees who have completed the internship. Minister, is that right?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5194	We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5195	So let me explain what this is about. 170 highly educated workers in the Croatian Institute of Advisory is part of the people working on the education of our farmers. Unfortunately, I have to establish an insufficient number of people, and I think we were aware of that, so last year we gave the opportunity to introduce 10 new trainees and they did a traineeship for a year. These people were born for a year and in some ways they are now ready to do that part of the job. Since we almost have a double number of advisers than, for example, the neighbouring Slovenia has in relation to the number of family peasant economies, we now have 10 new people who are ready to educate our farmers as I think Mr. Minister will agree, we necessarily need a total of our agriculture in raising this level of education, and we now believe that we should not lose those 10 people but even more employment, but continue. I thought that when this explanation was that the funds were increased, and that's enough in that part, but since the minister didn't come forward, I was asking for a vote, but still in the hope that it still gives the indication that these 10 trainees would. now future employees to be detained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5196	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 171 of MP Đurđe Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5197	We cannot accept this amendment for the simple reason of insufficient funds and with all due respect and what I have already said, the need for water economy positions, water management unfortunately in this amount is not possible and these 322 million and 622 thousand 240 kuna is maximum in the defined frameworks in which we have found ourselves in drawing up this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5198	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. She didn't get the votes she needed. 172. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5199	We do not accept this amendment. The government, although aware of the need for increased investment in the maintenance of the flood defence system, is not able to increase the item due to limited resources, but assumes the obligation to, together with the restoring ministries and Croatian waters, find the possibility to secure an insufficient amount over the year for the regular maintenance of this system.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5200	Dear Representative Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5201	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President and Mr. Secretary. So I think the concern itself and your observation regarding our amendment speaks enough about the state of water buildings, the degree of maintenance and the damage that is done every day of agricultural production, and it speaks enough about the lack of care of society where huge resources have been spent, and now it's forgotten about such buildings and they're not being maintained, they're not in good shape. I'm not saying it's your fault, mine or whose society it is. I therefore support you in the sense that, at any cost, at any rate, these assets are actually provided in this or that form. We would be pleased to have done so now, but we support the insistence in any case to improve Croatian agriculture to rationally think and to increase resources multiplely in terms of the well-being of agricultural production. I'm asking for a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5202	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't get enough votes. This included amendments 173, 174, 175 and 177. We only have three amendments left from this portfolio so we can finish them so the minister can go his own way. 176. Representatives Ljubica Lalić, Bozidar Pankretić and Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5203	Unfortunately, we do not accept this amendment. We're not able in the first year, I'd say, making the project provides more resources. I've already said that for capital investments related to the irrigation project we expect significantly higher funds in 2005. This is the maximum we could secure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5204	Representative Bozidar Pankretic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is a sequel to that amendment where we said that there is a need to increase significantly the funding for certain research, a certain lobby, and then, of course, in this part for concrete projects from 19 million kuna to 100 million kuna. I would say, and this has already been pointed out that this is in a certain way and a certain pre-election promise that we could hear, and I believe that with 19 million kunas will be very difficult to achieve. We'd be happy to contribute to the fulfillment of the promise, we think it's an necessity. Therefore, in this part, out of those 4 million kunas that remain in that part of the design of certain elaborates, there are enough resources to move into more serious investments, so I am staying on this amendment and I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5206	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get enough votes. 178th Amendment of Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5207	We do not accept it as an amendment, but I would like to stress that since this project has prepared the necessary investment technical documentation, the project will be financed through the regular plan of Croatian Waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5208	A colleague of Caine's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5209	Well, we're looking forward to one of these reasons. I just want to note, however, that the county of Istria from 93rd to today de facto built more than 500km of water installations in its space, and from the state, that is, Croatian waters for these purposes did not receive any kuna. I want to believe the word of the Minister of Forestry, Water Management, etc. and that, indeed, through the funds, the investments of Croatian Waters will provide the necessary means to continue the projects in Pièno as well. By the way, I'd like to say that Istria County from somewhere below 60% of the modification of the year 93th has raised the modification to about 97% which falls to the top, I would say the European average of one Austria, Germany, Italy. However, these 3% will cost us about as an investment of nearly 500 kilometers to date. And that is why we are really asking for the Croatian state to be involved in these projects, but it is not for us to believe the word of the Minister of Agriculture, and in this context I am withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5210	Thank you, fellow Caine. And the last more amendment of the same representative, 179.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5211	Amendments are not accepted for a simple reason because no investment technical documentation has been prepared for that programme and the project is not ready for implementation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5212	A colleague of Caine's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5213	Well, clearly, I'm going to have to ask in this case to vote on this amendment. I would just like to remind you that the Cerovlje municipality area until 93 was not covered by a single metre of these water installations. At this hour, 70% of these municipalities are covered by these installations. But once again, I would like to stress that, in practice, about 50 kilometers to build the cost of huge resources that, without the intervention of Croatian waters, local self-government, whether this is the municipality, whether this is the county, whether it is the means of solidarity that are being collected at the County of Istria or not. Therefore, I will ask my colleagues to support the IDS Club on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5214	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get enough. We have concluded this set with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. In 15 and 10 we will continue with the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. I ask the Minister of the Sea of Tourism, Transport and Development, Mr. Calmett, to show himself about the amendments. Amendment 180, MP Valter Drandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5216	The amendment is not accepted because it is simply impossible to reduce 7 million from these funds planned to maintain rail infrastructure and add them to subsidies for tourism traffic for the reason that maintenance of railway infrastructure is the obligation of the state, and on the other hand the subsidy for... tourism traffic of 88 million kunas is equal to the total paid subsidies in the last year. And also in 2004, an unused balance of about 16 million kuna was transferred, which means that this year we have a total of 104 million kuna for subsidies to organised tourism traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5217	Here you go, pal Drandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5218	Mr. President, I just want to say that as far as this item is concerned, where I have proposed a reduction that is, unfortunately, the best of all I have managed to find, I also don't think that this is the happiest solution, but it seems to me that the government and the Ministry may have been able to find some other solution to make these funds necessary for subsidies, because we all know that this year is extremely dangerous to say the competitiveness of Croatian tourism because of several major world events, it is the European football championship in Portugal and the Olympics in Greece, and that, in fact, it is possible to increase this kind of grant, especially as already announced public criteria and a guide to subsidisation on the basis of turnover last year, otherwise I have a different position to subsidise the pre-season and season and this suggests to the Ministry to think about it for the following year, and given the reasons of the Minister that they are provided and additional funds and that this amendment is over 100.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5219	I thank my colleague, Agent Drandic. 181st Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5220	This amendment is not accepted. Planned documentation provides for the construction of a tunnel through the 12km-long Učka, connecting the Opatija Matulj station with the Borut station in Istria. The path of the future tunnel does not fit Ucka Nature Park's spatial plan and, according to previous considerations, the value of investment in the construction of the tunnel is estimated at 150m euros. The object of the tunnel is also located on the future track of the railway connecting Trieste with Rijeka as a continuation of 5.b pan-European corridor and part of the southern Adriatic transport corridor. The future railway link of the river Trieste is on significantly lower altitude quotas than the existing and thus significantly more favourable in exploitation. Future development of northern Adriatic ports, Trieste, Kopra and Rijeka that develop through... much depends on one such link between the ports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Plans, current plans for Croatian railways, this construction is not scheduled until 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5221	Comrade Cain
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5222	Dear Mr. President, dear Mr. Minister, we all know that the route of the Učka or Čicarija tunnel is envisaged, however, here is a recent one if I am not mistaken in the New List in the Voice of Istria on February 28th, I read an article where Mr. Babic is now not aware of whose name he claims he will start connecting Rijeka and Pula with 2007. If that is the case, the work of Učka tunnel or Chichari should certainly be considered. In this amendment, we predict that this year, the state budget should provide a "symbolic" amount of 10 million kuna in order to start carrying out the project documentation. All likely representatives know that railway traffic from Pula or Istria to Zagreb or other parts of the Republic of Croatia goes through Ljubljana via the Republic of Slovenia. We are aware of the fact that building this hotel would require finding an amount of 150m euros and we are also aware that economic or other activities between the County of Istria and other parts of the Republic of Croatia will never justify this investment, but if we succeed in attracting traffic to the railways from neighbouring Italy then and beyond, France and Spain, that investment could be very profitable. We, gentlemen, ask you to support this amendment of ours and to open through that form that old Dobrila idea of connecting Istria and other parts of the Republic of Croatia that he was talking about at the end of the last century.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5223	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 182. of Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5224	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that this asset which is a respected representative here foresees the funds that are in position... building state ports. The port in Biograd is located in the port of county importance, we have provided certain resources to resuscitate such ports and is currently a process of harmonising with port administrations is under way so that we will ultimately take into account this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5225	A colleague of the Marks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5226	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Here I am convinced that I have in any case initiated a solution to the problem as the minister said that under the other items, funds will be found for the rehabilitation of the city's port in Biograd, which is still in symbolic amount of one million kuna, since the city will provide a million, I believe that we have all achieved one goal together and I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5227	I thank my colleague Markov, the amendment withdrawn. The 183rd amendment of the representative of Biserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5228	This amendment does not need to be accepted because the funds are fully secured for 2004 in accordance with the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the loan agreement concluded between the World Bank and the Port Authority of Rijeka on 12 July 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5229	Comrade Perman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5230	Since it is the revitalisation of the Rijeka Road or the construction of the D404 road which connects the Brajdica container terminal with Draga's node on the bypass and the state road D403 which should connect the west part of Rijeka's port with the Škurinjje node and is vital to the Rijeka port and the important factor in the traffic distribution of the city's narrowest city center, given that I did not find those amounts anywhere specific in the budget, I ask, however, that this voting adnment be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5231	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 184. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5232	This amendment can also not be accepted for the reasons why it is also as before the reasoning is actually the same port Pula is classified as the port of county importance and cannot be financed from the position of port... ports of national importance. However, I said that in this position to resuscitate the county ports, appropriate funds are provided for that the process of harmonising needs with the county port administrations is under way and all these amendments will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5233	Here you go, pal Drandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5234	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, what you said is true. However, the fact is that it is a huge problem for the city of Pula and that it is an investment that has a very high value of more than 30 to almost 40 million kunas and on that side we thought, given that some funds have already been paid from the Istrian County budget to start somehow the first stage of the rescue of the harbors so that it would be good for the state to participate in it. I would ask you only for your word that under these funds intended for county port administrations you will provide at least one part for, for this one, for this problem to begin to resolve it because there is unfortunately a similar problem as with, with the issue of sewerage in Pula. And if you make sure Then I withdraw this amendment... [[We'll secure it, we'll secure it.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5235	I thank my colleague Drandic. 185th Representative Branko Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5236	This is also from a group of these same amendments. The explanation is the same, we agree with the county port administrations. The funds are in the crowd. We'll make priorities and allocate some resources for our proposal that we're talking about here right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5237	Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5238	Thank you very much. I think anyone who went from Split to Omis halfway came across a picture of those 110 sailboats that used to work in the sand mines, and now they're all turned into little hotels. That's why the minister would beg if she really thought this through. The association numbers 110 members and that program, they have a building permit for the handcuffs, but the code, since there are a large number of ships, can't be wintered all the code, in the port of origin, so they find themselves in various places to accommodate their ships and protect themselves. But I'm also asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5239	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get most of it. 186th Representative Antuna Peruska.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5240	And this amendment is not accepted for the reason I've said before that among other things, it's achieved an agreement with... is ongoing and I would like to say otherwise for all of these proposals that in the distribution of these funds which are, I said earlier secured in mass that we will certainly take care of both the requests and the proposals of the representatives. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5241	Here you go, buddy Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5242	Mr. President, thank you. I have to admit, I didn't fully understand, but I want to encourage us to think. It is a proposal for an amendment one for the Rabac port on the eastern coast of Istria which is a shelter port and for the ships of the state ship Jadrolinija, and the other is the harbor Pula, an object which has never been completed, and its construction is in this stage in which it was completed in 1905 and that key object of protection of this 3 thousand-year-old town if we do not intervene in time, the consequences could be fatal to the city of Pula and for as long as we remain silent about this problem we will have to tackle. For him, there is not enough strength in the city of Pula or the Istrian County, and I fear it will be a great obligation for the Republic of Croatia, and we will have to look for its solutions to this problem and as soon as we can deal with it, it will be better for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5243	Voting?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5245	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 187. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5246	This amendment can also not be accepted because project documentation is not finished. The main railway projects were built. About 70% of the land needed on the path of the future railroad was purchased. A construction permit has been issued, and the project documentation of objects on the track such as overpasses and underpasses that are not, I said earlier, finished so that the state of the project documentation does not yet allow the construction of these, these, these, these, these, these sections of the railway. However, after the adoption of this State budget, we will bring forward a clear and financial plan of the Croatian Railways for 2004 and will, in accordance with the means provided in the State budget and the possibility of autonomous borrowing of possibly the Croatian Railways, establish a priority for 2004 and certainly, this one, and take account of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5247	Dear Representative Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5248	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, so let's keep it in writing that we just remind ourselves that the existing railway track of the Križevci-Bjelovar-Kloštar was built in the late 19th century. It has been categorized as a second-row rail of special importance for the Bjelovar-Belgar County. The last year of the course has been modernised in most parts except for the St. Ivan Žabno-Križevci shares, which we are talking about and expressed the need to build a new railway St. Ivan Žabno-Gradac which is on, which is also in the strategy of traffic development. You have all said this nicely and well, however, too little funds have been planned for this, and therefore, with not only principled support, but technical documentation has already been made except for this part of which you are not. It has been obtained, the Commission's opinion on the review of investment programmes has been obtained, and what is important is that some other shares have not received this either. An idea building solution and a solution to the state environmental protection administration, and so on, all this is built on a major project and should be a little more actively involved. What we expect is the real active participation of the state in those projects where about one step is made, and that's already said, where the projects are prepared and all of this is done. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5249	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. This included amendments 188, 189, 190, 191 amendments to Amendment 186. Amendment 192 of Agent Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5250	This amendment cannot be accepted with the following explanation: in 2002 the work on the rescue of Buzet 4 and Buzet 5, but it was not realised because it was not possible to resuscitate the technology that led to the creation of new project documentation based on which it would be necessary to implement the resolution. Project documentation is currently under review. After reviewing the project documentation, work will continue to be done, work on the resuscitation of this slide so that the amendment is not necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5251	A colleague of Caine's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5252	Just before I said the Istrian railway seems to be forgotten by both people and God, and hence by the Croatian state. I also said earlier that if you want to get to Rijeka or Zagreb, you must drive through the neighbouring Republic of Slovenia or Ljubljana. It was only 2010 that we heard that the construction of Učka or Chichari tunnels would begin. However, until 2010, this Istrian railway is to be maintained, which literally fails. I'd just like to point out that this is slipping and that over this glider at the railway line or by Buzet, trains travel at a decommissioning speed of 10 kilometers per hour. This is an abnormal situation, and it will have to be done literally not to break the communication of Pula, or other Istrian cities lying on that track with other centres, either in the Republic of Croatia, or in the world. And please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5253	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 193 also to Agent Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5254	We also do not accept this amendment because of those previous arguments, so it is a port of local importance. The funds are secured. The priority will be determined after it has been agreed with the County port administrations under way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5255	A colleague of Caine's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5256	It is the port of "Krnica Porat" port of interesting characteristics, comparative advantages and would be grateful to the majority in this house if these modest million kunas were allocated for a project that is certainly extremely important for the inhabitants of that space.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5257	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 194. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5258	We do not accept this amendment as an explanation for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5259	Comrade Poirot, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5260	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Minister. The ferry port of Brestova connects the islands of Cres and Lošinj with the mainland. Complete documentation is also done with the government's programme of connecting the island to the mainland and to each other. I can tell you that IGH made correct documentation, that a location permit was requested. And most important of all, Jadrolini introduces new vessels whose gauges cross the current port possibilities and cannot accept such vessels. Therefore, a reconstruction of such a port is necessary. The Rabac Port Authority has submitted a request for an outcome of the permit, I say, and this is exactly what we ask for the possibility of connecting the mainland with our Istrian islands. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5261	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 195th Representative Luke Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5262	We do not accept this amendment, as the funds are provided in the state budget are sufficient to maintain all high-speed lines. And the possible introduction of additional speedboat lines will be considered under... funding for this year 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5263	I'm a colleague of Roic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5264	In fact, this amendment sought to convince the government that there is a need to expand, i.e. the current navigation order, it was found that the track between Split, Hvar and Korčula was operating only four days a week. Experience has shown that this is indeed a great incentive for an end like Korčula, the eastern part of Korčula, Pelješac and the island of Hvar and that it would be good and it would actually need to function daily. And for this day-to-day operation, we just wanted to make it possible to connect these two islands with the mainland on a daily basis. I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5265	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 196. Representatives Marin Jurjevic, Dragica Zgrebec, Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5266	This amendment cannot be accepted. Explanations as before have been planned for the maintenance of existing ship, ferry and ship lines. According to all established sailing schedules for 2004, which does not mean that we will not introduce another line during the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5267	He's a colleague of Jurević's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5268	The past government recognized the interests in this case of the island of Korčula and the island of Hvar and the need for them along with Peljesac to be as closely connected as possible with Split. And the number 12 speedboat has been introduced four times a week. This is an attempt for the new government to see the importance of this line that has confirmed all its purpose, especially if we take into account tourism and all that, not to repeat the stories of demographic restoration, of our care for the islands in which we all swear and beat each other in the chest when we need to talk. Here's a chance to prove it, with this amendment, it would make sure that for another three days this line is driving that line that absolutely confirmed its justification. Voting please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5269	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 197th Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5270	The amendment is not accepted. The same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5271	Here you go, Comrade Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5272	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would illustrate this need on the islands with such a picturesque story, for example, assuming that a city like Velika Gorica, or its access road, puts ramps on its access roads. And these ramps rise several times a day. And with eight o'clock in the evening or maybe 10 o'clock in the evening, they don't get up at all. Now these are our ports, or lines, ferry lines and high-speed lines. This is what the legislator, i.e. the state, recognized, and adopted the Law on the Islands of 99, and Article 9 of that Law, and also Article 8 of that Law, said that any inhabited island that is not connected to the mainland or has at least three return points must have at least three feedbacks with land or larger settlements per day of which 2 should be fast-board. Rab, the island of Rab, as far as I know, is not connected to the mainland, there is no high-speed line, or three times a week, and I want not only to, these are funds not only intended for the island of Rab, but also for these lines that have been mentioned before, and I want the provisions of the Island Act to be respected in that sense, and please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5273	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 198th Amendment of Representative Bozidar Pankretić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5274	This amendment shall not be accepted for the following reason. The construction of the otherwise hub on existing highways is within the jurisdiction of the Croatian highways and Croatian highways, as well as other proposals made by units of local self-government and proposed for disgust on the route of existing highways will analyse all hubs that will meet the traffic criteria will be included in the programme of construction of Croatian highways for the period 2005 to 2008, and so will this crossroad node.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5275	Comrade Pankretić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5276	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Minister, as far as I know, this Cross knot is already being debated and that this part of which you are now talking about has come to the final stage and that it is actually working, I wanted to hear from you here today, not so much that these 300 thousand are involved, but that this part will have the Ministry's support, because it has come to this final stage. If I may suggest that, then I withdraw the amendment and hold you to my word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5277	I would like to thank my colleague Pancretic. Amendment withdrawn. 199th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5278	This amendment is not accepted for the reason that the construction plan of Croatian roads for this year includes the completion of the work on the preparation of the project documentation for Vrbovac-Gradac stock, and for the completion of the construction-technical study of the fast road Gradec-Bjelovar-Virovitica. The Public Road Construction and Maintenance Programme for the period 2005 to 2008 which will be proposed to the Croatian Assembly for adoption plans to build the fast road of Sveta Helena-Vrbovec-Bjelovar-Virovica. This hour and if we had money, it's not possible because it's not complete documentation yet, but I said it's going into the program for the next four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5279	Dear Representative Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5280	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I appreciate the effort and here's a promise to plan for the future, but if the funds were to be found, obviously, there's no such means according to what you're saying, this would just speed up. I don't have to mention how many roads life means and how much it's made in this part of building these fast modern roads. I only ask to think evenly about this direction at the same time and about the direction for Koprivnica, Križevci and the merger with the Hungarian border because believe me if these veins of the housewives don't flow in the way we need to be there is no progress because we are free to fill the state budget if we can't quickly connect. And so far, it has been such a practice to travel well to Zagreb when the funds were leaving and harder to come physically to Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5281	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5283	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. This also consumed amendments to the 200th Zdenka Chuhnil and 201st MP Đurđa Adlešić. Amendment 202. Representative Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5284	This amendment does not need to be accepted because the plan for the construction of Croatian roads plans to build a connected road with the Pirovac node is D27 as well as a crossing arrangement for a new working zone in the area of Stankovci municipality.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5285	A colleague of the Marks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5286	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I think it is good that this amendment was first and foremost when the construction of the Zagreb-Split highway was launched two years ago. This year, before the tourist season, its finality will be right on the starting point of Pirovac and beyond, all those travelers who are heading south of Croatia will go, and I think it is necessary that the connection to the Adriatic tourist road, which in this case is certainly a narrow throat and which would represent a very significant problem and, in a way, in a touristic sense, could deny all the positiveities that the highway itself has behind it. That is why I held that since it was not clear in the budget this item was presented but as the minister says it will be reconstructed in any case and that the connection will be in that standard that meets all that is meant under the highways and side roads. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5287	I thank my colleague Markov. The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment 203 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5288	There is also no need to accept it because the plan for the construction of Croatian roads for this year 2004 is planned through the maintenance and reconstruction programme of seven kilometers of the state road for which the guest of honor is looking for funds. So it's already scheduled.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5289	A colleague of the Marks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5290	Thank you very much. The initiative was just for reasons like I said before it was clearly shown in the framework of the state budget and I held that my assignment was as a representative from that part of the IX. the electoral units that primarily this very important connection for both the city of Biograd and the other places that are on that part to initiate this. Since it's been said he'll be made fully and ready for next season, I'm withdrawing the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5291	I'd like to thank Agent Markov. Amendment withdrawn. Amendment 204 to Agent Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5292	The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. The Croatian road construction programme for 2004 plans to reconstruct the 1.9km section of Učka tunnel, complete the entire project documentation for the diameter of Vranja 2.2 kilometers and complete the first phase of the project documentation for the section through Bolunsko Polje. The completion of works on Šushnjevica-Tunel Učka will be planned through a public road construction programme for the period 2005-2008 which will be sent to the Croatian Assembly during this year for adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5293	A colleague of Caine's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5294	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary! So surely the biggest problem of the state budget for this year is that the budgets of the Croatian Roads and Croatian Waters, I would even dare say hidden from parliamentary representatives. It is a huge resource of as much as 3.5 or 3.6 billion kuna and we don't really know what dynamics it will spend and for which projects of vital interest for the Republic of Croatia will be spent. What are we looking for with this amendment? We ask for far more dynamic road construction from Šushnjevica to Učka tunnel and for this purpose we ask that 20 million kuna be secured in the state budget. What I'm about to say may seem paradoxical but bearing in mind the condition of the road from Labin to Učka Labin tunnel or the Labin municipality defacto at this point exist as an island. It is certainly the most needed investment in that part of Istria. And if we access such a dynamics to further construction where only 1.9 kilometers of road will be recovered this year, it looks like we're going to need another four, five years to get that road rid of less than 20 kilometers. That's inadmissible to us. Clearly, the IDS Club is seeking a vote because it is incomprehensible that Labin and Učka tunnel will only be connected to a decent road in 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5295	Who is for this amendment 204? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 205, also a representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5296	This amendment cannot be accepted for the following reasons. The road Laliste-Lupoglav is in the jurisdiction of the County Road Administration of the Istrian County and since the municipality of Lalište has been identified as a municipality belonging to areas of special state concern and the municipality of Lupoglav is classified in the mountainous and mountainous areas of the ministry will, within the positions planned to encourage regional development of the area of special state care and mountainous areas, together with the county road administration, provide funds for the reconstruction of that road, therefore I do not think there is a need for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5297	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary! The IDS Club is withdrawing this amendment. I just want to point out that it is the poorest municipalities, that this road leads directly to the small-scale crossings that connect the County of Istria and the Republic of Croatia with the neighbouring municipalities outside the Republic of Slovenia, and at this point we really consider the share of one of the Istrian priorities in the northern part of Istria County.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5298	The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5299	This amendment cannot be accepted for the next reason. At the position of cultural heritage protection, however, it envisions an amount of 5 million and 115 thousand kuna, which directly encourages the development of such and similar projects, in order to determine which projects will be realised, we must make a public call to collect projects. I believe that the proposed source of funds for this purpose is unrealistic and I believe that this, too, that this proposal can certainly be run on a public call for certain financial resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5300	Representative Vrsek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5301	Scream. Mr Minister, there are several areas on the edge of the Republic of Croatia, so along the border with the Republic of Slovenia. The majority of the population living in the area used to work in the Republic of Slovenia, today, unfortunately, no longer works. The only thing they do today is agriculture or vineyarding and rural tourism. The County of Varazdinska allocated 8 million and 825 thousand kuna for this part of the programme last year and only one million kuna is required from the Republic of Croatia. We believe that this amount would fix a lot in that area. I don't agree with your argument and I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5302	Who's for Amendment 206? Thank you very much. The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 207 MP William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5303	Mr. Herman, this amendment doesn't seem to have to be accepted for the next reason. Public road construction and maintenance programme 2001/2004 In the section relating to highways, he also included works on the preparation of project documentation for construction of highways from the Hungarian border to the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Beli Manastrir highway, Svilaj, i.e. corridor V C. Based on public competition, Croatian highways concluded 5 design contracts in the total value of contracted works of 80 million and 584 thousand and 220 kuna. The completion of works under these contracts is planned in June 2005 and the construction of the Beli Manastrir highway, Svilaj will be included in the 2005/2008 public road construction and maintenance programme. A year. which will be directed by the Government to the Croatian Parliament. And I certainly believe that 2008 is a long way away, it's a 4-year period but that this should go immediately after the adoption of the programme, therefore, in the first part of this next medium-term development programme. So now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5304	Agent Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5305	I tried to explain in the morning and I think with a lot of success despite this amendment being rejected on the need of a draft agrobank. Now it's about the second important Slavonian-Baranja infrastructure project, so the highway corridor VC. If I understand you correctly, Mr. Minister, and otherwise you come from Zadar, and you were the mayor of Zadar, you don't have to explain what the highway means. Zadar really felt it literally. So I heard from your mouth that corridor V C began in 2005, it was construction, construction, so it was also a priority in the former government and it was indeed concluded that the works would begin in 2005. It's the first time I've heard it from you, and that's very good. But if this is so much before my amendment is justified because the promotion for that highway would mean, not only psychologically but in the most literal sense, practically an extremely large contribution0s to our space for Slavonsko-Baranja prostr as it would really be understood to start a major project and also to start those projects that mean monitoring that highway from the motel, from the hotel, from gas stations etc., etc. So it seems to me that you actually welcomed my amendment, you said I understand it and confirmed the start of construction as if I had some feeling that it might be the first amendment to be accepted. Here, Mr. Kalmeta for you good opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5306	We'll see about that. Who's in favor of Amendment 207? You had a bad feeling. He didn't make it. Amendment 208. Representative Luka Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5307	The amendment in this amount cannot be accepted, so the amendment is not accepted for the reason that some of the resources needed for the airport of Korcula are foreseen in this year's state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5308	Well, as we've heard, it's actually about the airport on Korčula. If we all agree that tourism is indeed one of the main economic branches if not in the whole country then it is certainly necessary to invest more in infrastructure, transport and infrastructure and, of course, on our Middle Dalmatian islands and in the airport. If you once traveled to Korčula, then you are certainly aware that for any more serious elite tourism it is unacceptable. The continuation of activities that we would like to take place at the airport in Korčula is exactly this way we would encourage, as on other Dalmatian islands because you will admit that there is really no elite tourism without such traffic aids. So please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5309	Please, who's in favor of Amendment 208? He didn't get the necessary majority. Since the same amendment was made in 209, 210, we are moving on to Amendment 211, MP Antun Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5310	This amendment cannot be accepted on the grounds that the funds allocated to cover the costs of searching and saving human lives at sea and preventing pollution from ships are proposed under the Maritime Safety Programme and are planned in sufficient amounts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5311	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5312	Mr. Minister, from the 25-year experience I have in the work of these search and rescue services on the Adriatic, I am not satisfied with the answer because I know that in this item, when it comes to this service, there is only a means of fuel hidden. However, if, in order to fulfil the international obligations arising from the relevant conventions and to improve the work of these important services, additional resources should be provided in a special sentence. As a confirmation of the necessity of the insurance of the funds, I would like to say that in 2003, the services of the port captains carried out 342 rescue actions in which 789 persons, 8 ships and 203 boats were rescued. It also intervened in 74 sea pollution actions. In the last 25 years, I have personally participated in a number of offshore search and rescue actions, and I have been able to meet with colleagues on the opposite side of the Adriatic and see how their service is staffed and technically and securely equipped. Despite everything, despite our inferior position, our services have never failed thanks to the expertise, abilities and professional responsibility of employees of our services in port captains and other entities involved in the tragedy of rescue at sea such as police, navy, fishermen, shipmen, lighthouseists and others. If we want to promote this service and get that place in the country, which is poborically oriented as Croatia still belongs, then I ask that a special item be singled out for this service and ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5313	Who's for Amendment number 212? He didn't get the necessary majority. We're moving on to Amendment 212. Actually, this was the previous 211, I apologize. On Amendment 212, Agent Anthony Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5314	Here, we've already talked about these amendments. So, the thing is the same, the funds are secured but after agreeing with the county port administrations we'll set priorities. Therefore, the amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5315	Here you go. Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5316	I'm not asking, I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5317	He's giving up, thank you very much. Amendment 213, MP Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5318	This amendment cannot be accepted, although this amendment does not apply to the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. Since the same ministry is not responsible for the water economy. However, we asked what is and the answer is this: the project is not ready for implementation because only part of the project has been prepared for investment technical documentation. And the start and dynamics of construction are related to the start of works on the reconstruction of roads in which the hull is also located.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5319	Agent Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5320	Yes, this is actually about the need to provide certain resources for the start of the construction of a water branch from Plomin via Vidikovec to Brestova. I'm not going to explain to people who don't have water, we're all aware of that. However, this time with the vote that I will certainly ask the competent ministry to speed up the institutions for which it is responsible to issue the necessary permits to the competent and local environment so that they can access the construction of that horizontal branch.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5321	Are you asking for a vote? who is for Amendment 213. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 214 is the same as Amendment 213. We voted under 113.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5322	Good explanation is the same. So we can't accept this amendment. The explanation is the same as that of Amendment 206. Where the money was offered for. I know we're not on roads, but it's the same as that one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5323	It's the same amendment as the one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5324	I beg you.. /Speakers speak out loud./
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5325	That amendment is the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5326	Well, that's not true. I've given three different amendments with the same content but it's done by different ministries. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5327	It's about the same amount. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5328	Mr. Vice-President, the fact that it is the same text, but it is that the Arburetum brick in Varazin County should also be a significant tourist destination for north-western Croatia. Therefore, he should be taken care of and cared for by the Ministry headed by Mr. Kalmeta. It is clear to me that by not accepting such an amendment and asking myself and you dear and respected colleagues and colleagues, what kind of message this government sends to the Croatian public when it does not take care of its own property, and does not want to put its own property into office and purpose. Please plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5329	The vote cannot be voted on on this amendment has been voted on since 113. Amendment 215 of the same representative was voted under Amendment 206. Amendment 216 of MP Miroslav Korenika was also voted on in the previous one of the amendments. Amendment 217 MP Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5330	This amendment cannot be accepted with the following explanation. The reconstruction of the building of school facilities is the program of rebuilding 140 school facilities, which includes schools and sports halls. That are financed in 50% from the regular development banks of the Council of Europe. And the funds planned in the draft budget are consistent with the dynamics of realisation. So the funds are consistent with the dynamics of realization. The programme, launched in late 2002, envisions the completion of the programme in late 2006. Construction of the sports hall in Klanjac is planned as a day-long sports hall and about 4 million and 600,000 kuna are planned for it. The local general government has expressed its readiness to build the hall as a two-part and to share in the costs to be achieved in a public tender from the price planned to the price to be reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5331	Mr. Cacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5332	Thank you very much. It's all true what Mr. Secretary said. I note that, according to all this year, a total of 900 million will go to 200 million in the programme. And because of the situation in which the town of Klanjec is located and the minimum budget with which it can participate in this programme, I have proposed this amendment. However, given the practice of rejecting everyone, I don't expect this one to be accepted, so I'm withdrawing, I'm not asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5333	Thank you very much. Amendment 218 MPs Lalic, Pankretic, Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5334	This amendment can also not be accepted, an explanation of the occasion as well as the amendment 217.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5335	Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5336	Well, I did expect Mr. Minister to explain because it is specifically about five school facilities in the Zagreb County area. I'll only speak two three sentences about one object and that's the back school in the intersection. You are being tested by a municipality near Vrbovac in which regrettably students go to a school hall which unfortunately there ceiling has been collapsing for two years. And last year it was agreed at the ministry that it would start but there was nothing wrong with the projects. It has been said for this year that projects have been accepted and that in your ministry it is defined and expected to be done. Now I'm asking you one project I said here. There are four more projects I would ask that if there are insufficient funds to try to do because these are objects that must surely be restored in this part. I'd like a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5337	Are you asking for a vote? Who's for Amendment 218? The amendment isn't a pass. Amendment 219 was amended as follows: The HSS MPs' club is asking for a vote. Amendment 219 calls for a vote. It's the same as, the same argument as 217. The same amendment, but the honourable representative Cacic did not ask for a vote. Are you asking for a vote for Amendment 219 is the same argument if a 217 respected officer has not asked for a vote. Are you looking for a g flattery? One yells yes, one doesn't. Thank you very much. Amendment 220 to Alenka Košisa Chichin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5338	This amendment can also not be accepted because, as well as a respected representative, a well-known renewal of municipal infrastructure in areas of special state care, a project financed by 50% of the European Investment Bank's loan. And the total value of the projects is about 100m euros. Out of which 50m euros are provided from the European Investment Bank, the amount planned in the 2004 state budget proposal is in the amount of 258m and 100,000 kuna. And it's enough and consistent with the dynamics of project realization. In accordance with the contract between the European Investment Bank and the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5339	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5340	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, by honor, Mr. Secretary. I would like to point out on this occasion that there are a number of power-free facilities in the municipality of Dvor, Majur, Lower Kukuruzari and Iron to date. And it's about objects that were built and operated by 1991. Priorities have been established with the assistance of Elektra District Office Dvor, taking into account the number of inhabitants per area, and refers to cca 30 villages in these municipalities that are still without electricity. I think that having electricity is absolutely something without which we can't talk about any development at least as important as having water and we can't talk about informing or passing information or anything unless there's no electricity. This is what I consider a 258 million-dollar priority for this programme of rebuilding municipal infrastructure. Unfortunately, it hasn't been worked out, and I don't see from which means this power grid will be restored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5341	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5342	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5343	Who's for Amendment 220? The amendment wasn't adopted. Amendment 221 MP Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5344	This amendment cannot be accepted. The fact is that the Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development is not responsible for the water economy system, but I will give an explanation that we have received from Croatian Waters. The explanation is as follows. Therefore, no investment and technical documentation has been prepared for that programme and the project is not ready for implementation in the proposed amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5345	Mr. Korenik's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5346	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must stress that in the Dutch area of the Varazdin County and here about the area being spoken of, there is the first water layer which is one of the most quality sources of drinking water in northwestern Croatia. Unfortunately, testing studies have established and confirmed that it is constantly polluting in part due to the existence of waste dumps, on the other hand due to action and because of the absence of wastewater collection. However, given the lack of documentation, I will still withdraw this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5347	Thank you. Amendment 222 of the Vreska MPs is the same as 221. It's the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5348	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5349	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment 223 MP Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5350	This amendment can also not be accepted and the same as before this ministry is not responsible for the water economy system, but we have received an explanation from the Croatian Waters which reads: The amendment is not precisely defined and does not know which water supply facilities it refers to. The funds from the Croatian Waters Plan as well as local self-government will plan to build buildings if they have prepared investment and technical documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5351	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5352	Thank you. The same amendment 224 MP Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5353	I'm pulling the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5354	Retracted. Amendment 225 complies with Amendment 113, which we have already voted on. Amendment 226 MP Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5355	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The fact is that this item of 3 million and 185 thousand kuna for waste management is small, but it is three times larger than in the previous budget and will be financed by a recording of the existing situation that we have already started projects and studies and some reports. As for the construction and assistance of local self-government units that are responsible for their deposits under the Waste Act, which entered into force on 1 January this year, we have an Environment Protection Fund that will collect funds and gather as early as 1 March. Our assessment is that only about 150 million kunas will be collected from the car itself. Therefore, we will have the means to assist local self-government units and to repair certain dumps and build new ones. That's why we can't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5356	Representative Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5357	It is commendable that the funds are bigger than for the previous government, but in line with the motto in the "Let's Start Croatia" elections, I think it could have been more ambitious in this respect, because 3 million kunas, I think, are insufficient for waste management because of the lack of state strategy, waste management, and because of all the problems that exist today in Croatia. So this 13 million might be at least a part of the problem solved more, so please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5358	Who's in favor of Amendment 226? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 227 to MP Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5359	I think Mr. Pancic knows well that the ministry has its own office for spatial planning and that we are independently developing spatial plans of national parks and nature parks along with county institutions. Therefore, the larger funds are not needed, and these funds are exclusively for external cooperation, for the involvement of those experts we do not have in the ministry, so we cannot accept this amendment, but by the way I will only tell you that this year the spatial plan of the National Park "Velebit", the Nature Park "Učka", the Lonjsko polje, Kopački Rit, Medvednica, Telascica and Žumberak will be completed. I think it's going to be a big shift forward in national parks and nature parks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5360	Representative Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5361	I would like to express my satisfaction if all of this, which Mrs. Minister has led to be truly and realistic, but I believe, regardless of this special fund you mentioned, that these funds especially for the spatial plan, for the Croatian Adriatic, where some 660 thousand kuna is provided that it will not be enough so as to pray that this proposal will still be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5362	Who's in favor of Amendment 227? The amendment wasn't adopted. Amendment 228 MP Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5363	As you know, there has already been a lot of talk in the Assembly about the strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia. We have this strategy and we have a program of spatial planning Croatia should only change it a little bit or supplement it, possibly some things and fix it. Therefore, this amount is also sufficient. As regards the amount for the reconstruction and revitalisation of historic cities of 200 thousand kuna, the completion of a single project for which these funds are sufficient. The amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5364	Representative Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5365	I'm not surprised that this amendment is not accepted either, because so that you can look into your colleagues' eyes that an amendment is accidentally accepted. However, I do not think that these funds provided for the strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia are sufficient because the strategy really represents the most important document. I would like, as the minister said, that this is when it is over, and I believe that we will see a complete strategy by the end of the year or in this term, but I remain because experts claim that the funds are not enough, that this amendment is still being voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5366	Who's in favor of Amendment 228? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 229 of MP Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5367	Let me just say something for a second about these previous amendments. Namely fellow Pancic, the situation is only in one clear one, and that is that so far in each budget with smaller funds than these items have been reduced, made budget rebalances because the funds have not been spent. Believe that these funds that we've predicted will be spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5368	I'm asking you, I'm asking you, Minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5369	As far as this amendment is concerned, we have two items in the budget. One item is the construction of clean-up ships and another is the item of an effective situation. As for the construction of project documentation for the extraction of submerged ships, still neither for the former government nor for ours that lasts, here are now two months, it has not been established whether these wrecks should be extracted or not. And experts think one another. A program will be developed, you will see what is most clever and most likely extraction will be very, very difficult and complicated. Therefore, there is no point in doing project documentation for the extraction of sinking ships, so long as a strategic programme is not made, whether or not. We don't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5370	Representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5371	Well, it's not sure the project documentation is just about to extract ships or not. These ships contain something that is very bad for our Adriatic Sea. There are a lot of mules and fuels in those ships, and I think exactly the Ministry of Environmental Protection should do one such project documentation to see if those ships will be removed or if not ships then at least dangerous fuel that's inside. We know what happened two years ago during the tourist season, and as far as cleaning ships are concerned, we also know that there are also counties involved that actually also respond at the first moment and respond and finance these costs. Here, and after two years, these expenses haven't been settled for cleaning in Rabac yet. I just wanted to say that there are about 30 planes and about 20 ships that have elevators and mules in them, according to the information I received from the Department of Cultural Heritage, submarine one, 30 planes and about 20 ships. And I really think it's about time we protect our Adriatic and see what we do with it. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5372	Right, we'll make a proposal, but why didn't you pay for what was done two years ago, I don't think you can ask us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5373	Are you asking for a vote? Who's in favour of Amendment 229? [[Intruder: Yes.]] The amendment didn't get the required majority. We're moving to Amendment 230. Representative Marija Lugaric, and State Secretary Nevio Šetić will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5374	Yeah, here's Amendment 230. We have to say no. In fact, 12 thousand kunas were shown for this item more than the previous year, and we believe that these funds are sufficient. We also stress that if the ground-breaking footage of the situation on the ground determines the need for additional resources that we will take care of and increase these resources in the perspective with special attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5375	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5376	Mr. Secretary of State. In this amendment, I have indeed asked for one symbolic increase in the resources to promote a program of work with gifted students in order to show, in reality, the declaration given not only in principle. You just said you needed to encourage excellence. Otherwise, I think you're not doing much work with talented students. I find it a little strange, especially, because of what you just said, that in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports this amount of only 200 thousand kuna is spent on the team or, for example, you have the funds for 60 thousand kuna for auto tires, and you do not have the funds for only 200 thousand kuna to increase for programs of work with gifted students. Of course, I'm asking for a vote, and Mr. Vice President, if I may have a small breach of the Rules of Procedure. In fact, during the letter, the government ordered the representatives to defend the budget by the prime minister, deputy prime ministers, finance ministers and other members of the government, state treasurers, etc. This is the first time the budget before the Parliament is being defended by Mr. Secretary of State that I appreciate, etc. But I don't think he has the authority to defend here at the plenary session of the amendment because it's just that the government has set us up. I mean, at the end of the day, it also shows a certain attitude of this government towards the education of science. Namely, Minister Primorac and if he was here, he did not appear in the Croatian Parliament and spoke here unless we trusted him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5377	Thank you. Minister Primorac had an unscheduled journey, and I think it was also a practice in previous synergy that I saw on television. Are you asking for a vote on the amendment? Who's for Amendment 230? [[- Yeah, I said it.]] The amendment didn't go through. Another clarification, Minister Primorac went to Macedonia to escort the Macedonian president and therefore is not present today. Amendment 231. National Minority Representatives' Club and SDSS's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5378	The promotion of the education of national minorities is foreseen in the budget by the funds of 2 million and 700 thousand kuna, which is more than 50 thousand kuna compared to the previous year, or 2%, and we believe that the funds are sufficient at this point for these needs. Therefore, we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5379	Representative Chuhil.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5380	Dear Secretary of State. Minority is aware that the budget is always a set of great desires and small opportunities and we have respected it and we have not submitted amendments to other minority positions. However, the problem of textbooks, above all textbooks in native language, is a continuing problem and certainly 2 and a half million could have been found in the budget, that there was a good will to finally, at least a part of the minorities who have an organised school could say that they work with textbooks, that both teachers and children do not have to get along. This was confirmed in the end and yesterday's monitoring of the Council of Europe which are here precisely because of regional languages and minority languages where only and greatest problems are just textbooks in the native language. Because it is easy to translate the textbook under consideration, however, there is no possibility of translation here and I ask the vote and ask that the funds be found.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5381	Who's in favor of Amendment 231? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 232.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5382	The funds for all three items were presented at the level of the previous year, but we stress that they must also be joined by the Croatian lottery funds that are given to them directly to their jury account and in the estimates of the amount based on last year's realisation. Thus encouraging public needs programmes, sports, Croatian Olympic Committee, cca 38 million kuna, promoting the pursuit of sports by disabled persons of the Croatian Sports Federation 2 million kuna. We stress that the funds needed to go to the Athens Olympics will be sufficient and also to go to the World Cup in Australia. Therefore, we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5383	Agent Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5384	Mr. Secretary of State, you yourself said the funds were at the funding level last year, and so were the funds from the Croatian lottery. However, the fact is that the medals and successes of our athletes make all of us proud, or all of us proud together. The fact is and it is known that athletes and the best promoters and ambassadors of a country. Since this year has been a whole series of world and European championships, and the Olympic Games and Championships in NeOlympic Sports, and last year and without the Olympics has shown chronicity in sport, I ask that the items listed in order to increase the quality of our athletes' performances in these competitions and in particular I call on HDZ fellow athletes to support this amendment and thus show that their chilling for sport is not only declarative but also real. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5385	Who's for Amendment 232? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 233. Representative Branko Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5386	Incentives of sport, amateur clubs are not foreseen in the proposal of the state budget and because the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is funding and promoting the acquisition of sport within the education system, so we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5387	Thank you very much. Here we have in the budget the promotion of school clubs, the promotion of public needs, the promotion of the sport of disabled people, and I think the promotion of sports in amateur clubs deserved to be found in the budget. It is our most massive sport and most important for the development of sports in the Republic of Croatia. Today amateur sports are in a major crisis because local units are unable to separate resources from people to engage in sports. These funds can barely cover the costs of co-opting and paying judges, so I think they should be introduced into the budget and stimulate amateur sport. But before I talk about sports, I'd like to give some advice to the opposition, since we have 426 times to raise our hand, when you vote, change your hands so there's no injury. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5388	Who's for Amendment 233? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 234 to MP Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5389	I would just like to point out that these funds must also be used to join Croatian lottery funds, which are directly available to them on their jury account, and in the estimated amounts based on last year's realisation, this is about 2 million kuna. I would like to point out once again because this is what the earlier amendment showed, I stress that the funds needed to go to the Athens Olympics will be sufficient and also to go to the World Cup in Australia, so that the Croatian sports audience can be calm with this. We are deeply hoping that you will accept and understand our explanation and we are confident that everything will go to mutual satisfaction, so we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5390	Dear representative Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5391	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I cannot be pleased with the non-admission of this amendment, unfortunately you did not understand what it was about, the games, so at the Paralympic Games in Athens should participate in the Paralympic Teams and at the Olympic Games, not at the World Cup, but in the deaf Olympic Games should be attended by deaf athletes from Croatia. I must remind you once again that in Croatia, professional sports deals with about 14,000 athletes with disabilities associated with 28 county alliances. I am sorry that this fact is ignored and I am asking all MPs to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5392	Who's for Amendment 234? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 235. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5393	That is one point we stress that the same must join the Croatian lottery funds that they are given directly to their jury account and in the estimated amounts based on last year's realisation that is approximately 2 million kuna. We stress that the funds needed to go to the Athens Olympics will be sufficient, as well as to go to the World Cup in Australia, therefore we cannot accept this amendment for these reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5394	Dear Vice-President, Secretary of State I will only warn one other dimension of it, we know that it is about 2 million kuna, but we believe that these funds are insufficient to deal with the sport of disabled people and we see how nice it is when some government officials take pictures with these people and give them moral support in that and we in Croatia also hold that these people need not only moral but also material help in this regard and therefore we ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5395	Who's in favor of Amendment 235? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 236 of MPs Dorotee Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5396	As we have already explained previously that the means to promote sports in school clubs are sufficient for 2004 and the promotion of sports in the Croatian Olympic Centre Bjelolasica is of great importance for the Republic of Croatia, therefore your amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5397	So I would not agree that in all Croatia for all schools there is enough 8 million kuna this amendment has had the intensities to make fairer redistribution of money because in a few years we will have no one to send to the Bjellolasica Olympic Centre unless we have the basic schools to potentiate sports, amateurally of course at the beginning. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5398	Who's for Amendment 236? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 237 of Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5399	Construction of the sports hall at the Croatian Olympic Centre Bjeolasica is a project under way but I stress that credit funds are not available to finance the same, so this amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5400	In last year's budget, the budget of the Racan government for Belarus was allocated 10 million kuna, this year in your government 2 million kuna less and there is no point in building a swimming pool and sports hall at all. The amendment requires that the two million kunas that were in last year's budget be put into this year's budget, so that Bjellolasica is financed by the same amount as last year. Here, many MPs have been convinced before me that their amendments will pass and it has not happened, and I am now convinced that this one will be accepted and that Mr. Lino Cervar, Franjo Arabovic, and in particular Perica Bukic, will vote in favour of continuing and financing the construction of a swimming pool on Bjellolasica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5401	Thank you. Who's in favor of Amendment 237? The amendment didn't get the required majority. And that's what the voters were mentioned for. Amendment 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5402	I point out that this position is not about rebuilding or building sports facilities, but about projects to improve security on sports grounds such as video surveillance and the like, it is certainly unfoundedly proposed to increase the amount of 25 million kuna, therefore the amendment is rejected as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5403	I apologize in 238. I didn't mention MPs Pecek, Lalic and Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5404	Thank you very much. So regardless of the position which was too small at the same time, it could be considered that in Virovitica-Podravska County there is a need to build, or to cover one swimming pool for the needs of all children in primary and secondary schools, and also to consider building sports facilities in places where cities and municipalities provided both project documentation and land and some money for that. But obviously since this time the Ministry is stingy for the development of amateur sports especially for capital transfers, I was expecting this kind of response. Of course I'm disappointed and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5405	Are you asking for a vote? Who's in favor of Amendment 238? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 239 of Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5406	The amendment is rejected entirely because the construction of sports facilities for the reason that funds for these purposes are provided in the County and Cities Budget according to newly-reported legal solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5407	Representative Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5408	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary-General, I thought quite the opposite that this would be a precedent and that it would be in Sibenik to help take down Sibenik's antithesis that the winner of war and the loser is at peace and that we would now give him this way, and I will now explain and therefore should approve this very small amount of funds. It is known that the tradition of sports in Sibenik is a long special tradition of water polo. He gave a whole series of top and prominent water poloists, he carried out a whole series of generations that were engaged in water polo, but unfortunately there were never any conditions that stick to the optimal, which stick to the quality, and also from the aspect that Sibenik is a tourist center and that should have a closed pool. That's why the city government was in 2003. 1. 9. She made the Decision to build a closed sports pool on Crnica and it is part of a broken down TEF factory, one of the most valuable positions in the town of Sibenik that would have given this pool a new property, a new sport dimension, but not only of it but also of tourism and just by the city, means what the secretary-general said secures 20 million and 559 thousand kunas means the main amount, but unfortunately because it often happens when such facilities of public purposes are done, it also means that there is a need to provide additional, additional funds that are not really big and amounting to only 3 million and 950 thousand. So the funds that are in some way relative to the total funds are minor and I think that the state should show one width and one support not only to the city of Sibenik but also to the idea that is sports, which is, which should be and which I believe is above politics. That's why also because of the city of Sibenik and for sport and for all of us, I am forced to ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5409	Who's for Amendment 239? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 240 of Representative Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5410	Yes, here, Mr. Markov's amendment to the branch of the sports hall in Vodice is rejected and cannot be accepted for the same reasons because I must remind myself that in 2001, such a law was passed which transferred this, this funding to the level of counties and cities. We are therefore unable to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5411	I fully understand the way you refuse to accept this amendment. The motive to subsidise the sports hall is the motive for which there are elements and in a new way of funding that is decentralised, but which can in a certain way subsidize in case the units of local and regional self-government assess that a particular facility is a priority, and I believe that in the town of Vodice is the priority building of the sports hall. It is one of the most important tourist cities in Dalmatia, which deserves a sports hall with its growth and reputation, and I believe that in the future it will certainly happen in one way or another. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5412	Who's in favor of Amendment 240? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 241 of MP Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5413	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that The law on pre-school education and education, the representative body of local self-government units, adopts a plan for a network of kindergartens in all areas, and the representative body of the district, regional self-government, coordinates the development of networks of kindergartens in its area. The Municipality of Vir is the founder of the children's kindergarten “Smile” in Vir with a regional facility in Debeljak. Given that under the legal provisions, the founder is obliged to care for preschool children and to ensure the conditions for the work of kindergartens, we hold that their obligation is also to provide adequate facilities for preschool children. So in this area, we are unable to provide funding for the construction of a kindergarten in Vir, although we would like to help build capital facilities for preschool children.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5414	Representative Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5415	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You, Mr. Secretary of State, have not been familiar with the debate that has been being held here for days about the ultimate policy. Everyone agreed that we needed a whole network of kindergartens and so on and so on. And now that you can prove yourself, you're even saying it's not your concern. The truth is, it's also a matter of local self-government. We are also talking about decentralisation which, somehow in this budget, looks like it's going to make a dangerous appointment because these funds have been reduced, and the Vir Municipality has been and has bought space for this purpose because it didn't have its own space, it has already produced project documentation. So there was even a local one, this one, got permission and now it's just waiting for a construction. So I think it's not, I don't think there's any need here to spend time around something that we've all agreed on how valuable our children are, how much we want to worry about the most intelligent policy on the islands, and I can say that's exactly what the island of Vir is forerunner. Fortunately, thank God, there are more and more children, so the need is precisely for a kindergarten that is now some sort of completely inadequate space located in a private house. I think the state should help with these modest means.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5416	Are you asking for a vote? Dear MPs, are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5417	Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5418	Who's for Amendment 241? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 242. Representative Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5419	Here is a similar situation, so Primošten municipality is the founder of Primošten kindergarten in Primosten with regional facilities in Privlaca and Rogoznica. Given that under the legal provisions, the founder is obliged to care for preschool children and to provide conditions for the work of kindergartens. We believe that their obligation is to provide suitable facilities for preschool children. So in this budget we are not able to provide these funds for these reasons. That's why the amendment refuses.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5420	Representative Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5421	Thank you very much. Well, kids probably need the only ones we shouldn't have any excuses for. Absolutely in the units of local self-government and the area is joined to care for children but when the municipality with relatively small incomes, inabilitys and situations in which it is located is simply to move out of the existing space where the kindergarten is now located because by the powerful judgment of the Municipal Court in Sibenik since 2003 and the confirmed judgment of the County Court since 2004, the emigration of kindergarten has been ordered and unfortunately it will have to be evicted these days. And in that situation, I believe that the concern of all of us and the state means the central government to try to find a solution that would make one great environment like Primosten try to find a solution that would at least transport and clearly insecure the role of the local self-government unit to help and to find and to find priority funds. Therefore, the intensity was, Mr. Secretary of State, to help try to find a solution and not in any way because of an argument that may be right in terms of legislation that is simply that nothing happens because unless in any way the central government gets involved in this case unfortunately we will have a very bad situation in this respectable tourist place but first of all it is about children and they do not deserve any characteristics. So, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5422	Who's in favor of Amendment 242. The amendment wasn't adopted. Amendment 243 of MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5423	I must say that this amendment is being rejected in full and as far as basic school is concerned on the island of Vir, for the reason that according to the law that was passed in this House in 2001, the funding method has changed and he today is concerned by founders, city or county but I would like to say this, that this part relating to the construction of a primary school in Nin is provided in this budget and within the framework of the C5 programme to be financed by the Ministry of the Sea. Therefore, one part of the probably respected representative did not know about the funding. Therefore, the basic school in Nin is funded by the C5 programme, hence, it is not necessary to provide the funds here. That's why this amendment is being rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5424	Representative Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5425	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, I knew about it, and those funds are insufficient because that school needs 6 million and there's not enough resources available, nor here in this item. Namely, Mr. Secretary of State for the construction of a primary school in Nin during 2003 was granted the consent of the Zadar County. Sam Nin donated land. The amendment therefore proposes to provide funds for the start of the school's construction. Mr. Secretary of State, during your original rule, the Nin municipality was pompously declared a city, a cradle of course of Croatianism and today teaching at that school... They have to move the tables with the students so they don't get the noise off the ceiling and off the walls. [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]] It's about the school itself in Nina. I don't know if you've shown yourself here, it is, and for the building in Vira. Also, the Virus has secured space. Therefore, I think that the state can, or land, help with these modest means of making project documentation. I note, although it is connected to the bridge it is an island, so I repeat here everything that fellow MPs have said about the care of our island everyone has. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5426	I thank Representative Antičević-Marinović. Who's in favor of Amendment 243? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 244. It's a club of representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5427	Politics pays like the calculation itself is a very complex issue. The members of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports who have the necessary data have made a calculation that we hold to be realistic, so the amendment is completely rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5428	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5429	On behalf of the Libre Club, then, I stress that it is a very important amendment that would raise this item by 100 million kuna. Namely, what's this about? With this amendment, we would like to prevent further wage lagging from basic school education from public sector wages and state-owned enterprises. So, given the same technical equipment, that lagging behind is now between 9 and 12%. The increased investment, therefore, does not actually achieve anything by increasing the budget. This 4% increase actually eliminates the impact of gross social product growth and inflation so that wages actually remain the same and our intention is to pay primary school education workers as close as possible to the average salary in Croatia, i.e.. the average salary compared to the technical equipment. So we're staying with our amendment. We're looking for a vote. We ask for the support of all MPs because it is our opinion that the well-paid educator is also the basis of good and quality education.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5430	I'd like to thank Agent Pavlic. Who's in favor of Amendment 244? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 245. Representatives Milanka Opačić and Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5431	It is quite a bit of an unclear amendment, but I must say that it is known, there is an announced further recruitment of professional associates whose salaries are covered by this draft budget, so we do not see the reasons for this amendment and therefore we reject it as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5432	Representative Opacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5433	Well, Mr. Secretary of State, I don't know where the funds are secured because in this entire budget, at the position of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, you don't have a position from which you can hire experts and you've erased the position that was in the past budget called teaming of professional associates and based on which you've hired 185 professional associates in primary and secondary schools over the past year. I'd like to remind you here that we've found a situation that 127 elementary schools don't have any mental health experts. So, these 185 experts in primary and secondary schools are just a drop in the sea of those experts we need. You will not be able to solve the problem of violence among children, you will not be able to solve it unless you introduce mental health experts in schools, unless you educate them for this problem of working with children, and until you are systematically solving the problem of violence among children in primary schools, so all the problems children have and are violent. Every day in the paper, you have cases of violence between children and what you're doing right now, and we're all pretty much disgusted by these cases together. What needs to be done is that with these 185 experts who are employed last year to hire additional psychologists, educate these people and start to a systematic resolution of violence among children, so systematically start working with children and solve their problems and therefore ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5434	Who's in favor of Amendment 245? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 246.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5435	We understand the amendment of Mr. Peru's MPs but we must say that just the last meeting of the Parliament has changed the way of funding and that it is no longer possible to build these schools from the state budget in Krshan and Buzet because today they are concerned by the law of the county and cities and we cannot change the law willingly. That's why this amendment is being rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5436	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5437	I understand Mr. Secretary of State coming from the same place as I do, and I believe he knows the problem as well as I do. But I'd like to mention that for problems in elementary school.. This 4 classroom was planned before decentralisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what it would mean for the Roch District School and the Glagolitic Academy there in that small Istrian town. Mr. Secretary doesn't need me to speak. I know he could have accepted those amendments. But since he couldn't do it. I can ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5438	Who's in favor of Amendment 246? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 247. The club's representative of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5439	The amendment is rejected entirely because we hold that the funds are sufficient and that is because the education of the teaching staff is under way and we further stress that there is a delivery of information equipment in certain environments that has not yet been unpacked.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5440	Representative Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5441	With this amendment, then, I suggest raising funds to inform primary schools from 10 to 20 million because unfortunately there are still many school environments in which there are no computers, such cases are likely to exist. Unfortunately, there are still schools that have not yet entered the information program. And by means of 20 million kuna, we think that this process could be completed this year. I demand a vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5442	That's for Amendment 247? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 248. Representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5443	I have to be honest with you that we're surprised at the number of amendments that the MPs who passed the law are just giving that it's not possible to finance more from the state budget of the construction of sports halls and schools. This Law was passed in 2001, and that is one of the fundamental reasons why we cannot change the law willingly but from here in the Croatian Parliament, we must reject this amendment proposed by Mr. Representative Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5444	Representative Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5445	I wouldn't go too far with the form if that's what the money's for. In other words, both you and I are perfectly clear that this is not about form. If the Ministry of Science, Education and, excuse me, science, education and sports announced that they would set up directors and where we took responsibility, namely where we took responsibility for setting up directors, we also transferred the obligation to finance. When it comes to building schools, then we can't give up money, and when it comes to setting up principals, then we're the first. So let's not put it that way. Let's clear these terms once. If you're saying we don't have the money, say we don't have the money, I'll tell you where they are. Right now, right now, right now. Now. Since by chance, since the gentlemen, this Assembly, the Assembly, advocated the transparency of spending, the Minister here on several occasions insisted that the Parliament make decisions. The only item in which the government really has support is the discretionary right of a future reserve. She was two years ago 150 million, last year 180, what do you think she is now? 320 million. Well, it does, no. It was 180, it was spent 220, this year it's 320. So 100 million is writing to you in reserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5446	Please, please, Minister of Finance. I'm asking the Minister of Finance not to take part in the debate. Are you asking for a vote? Oh, no? So you're withdrawing the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5447	Yeah, yeah, pull.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5448	You're withdrawing the amendment? Amendment 249. Representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5449	Unfortunately, I must say that this amendment must be rejected for the same reasons. If I get it right, Agent Cacic, so from the reserve we could eventually build, but you know that the law didn't make that reserve possible couldn't be as big as the demands here. Thus, the law is the basic thing that limits us there. And that's why we have to refuse this amendment to build a sports hall at Ludbreg elementary school.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5450	Representative Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5451	Nice. The truth is, the reserve can't cover all the amendments, but it's about triple-covering all these amendments that I'm offering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5452	Are you looking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5453	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5454	Okay, there's a little humor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5455	Just money, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5456	Amendment of the 250th Representative of Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5457	If we don't open the polemics, it's the same thing, we can't accept for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5458	So the last amendment was the first elementary school of Visnjevica, the second was the primary school of Ludbreg, a sports hall and I understand that 8 million is little for some items. But let's say the amendment relating to the lower fruit elementary school, the sports hall, and that's the one we're talking about right now, is only 2 million kuna. I remind Minister Shuker himself that last year, Finance Minister Mato Churchenac ate and drank 610 thousand kuna and Shuker this year was a million 450. Well, at least let's make that difference for that school.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5459	You're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5460	I'm asking Shuker, Minister Shuker if he's ready to give the team for primary school.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5461	Are you requesting a vote for Amendment 250?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5462	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5463	No, right? Thank you. Amendment 251. Representative Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5464	Unfortunately, this is an amendment to the same content that requires the construction of a sports delivery to the Ljubesica elementary school. For the same reasons, the legal restriction is, we cannot accept, we reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5465	Representative Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5466	Thank you very much. I would only mention that the ministry I led introduced into the program for this year 142 schools and sports halls, 28 only in the Zadar area. So again, I think it would be my turn to have at least 3, 4 of these Zagorje and Varazdin halls also get some support. If not already with Minister Shuker, the same situation with the doubling of teams and the European Integration Ministry. So there's no European Integration Ministry downgrades their team to last year's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5467	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5468	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5469	Here, I think you might have accepted. Nothing. Let's move on. 252. Amendment of MP Branko Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5470	It is an amendment to the same content, therefore, which seeks to build a Long War school hall, unfortunately we, for the same reasons of legal restriction and what is now in the area of county jurisdiction, cities must reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5471	Representative Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5472	Thank you very much. I'd just like to state the reasons why we're looking for a million kunas for the Long War Sports and School Hall. The Long War municipality numbers 7000 and 200 inhabitants. We have 8 sports clubs that employ 400 athletes, Jasenice elementary school 687 students, kindergarten 160 children and cultural art society 300 members and we have 5, 6 associations. All of these would use that hall because this is not, this city hall but a sports-school hall and I think a million kuna would be an incentive and we'll... Start building this year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5473	Who is for Amendment 252. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 253 of the IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5474	For the same reason, we must reject this amendment and it is obvious that the law that was passed in 2001 is guilty of much because what has been corrected here is now being sought. Therefore, such amendments are still very much and our only position remains that we cannot because we do not have legal footholds to accept them, so we reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5475	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5476	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. The reconstruction of the elementary school of Podpican in the municipality of Kršan refers to the addition of 4 pieces in the school for which there is technical documentation. These four classrooms have taken many years for reasons of increasing the number of children in school to raise the quality of the curriculum and plan. It should be noted that the funds before decentralisation were planned in the state budget but were not secured, so please in that sense perhaps take this into account. Since child enlargement has taken place in this area and we try to maintain that trend in this regard. Thank you very much. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5477	Who's for Amendment 253? The amendment didn't get the required majority. 254 amendments by Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5478	Unfortunately, the same case is the legal limitations we can't accept the financing of this construction, so we're pulling this one, we can't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5479	Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5480	So I'm surprised by the state secretary's colleague that the law applies in Koprivnica Crossing County and is not valid in Karlovac County. Because you have in your budget to build school sports grounds in the carlovia county will finance with a million kunas from the state budget. And we're looking for the same thing for Koprivnica Crossing County. However, it precedes you to work in Koprivnica Crossing County, but you can do so in the Karlovak County. So there are other schools in the state budget that you will finance construction from the state budget. And I have to tell you that the Koprivnica-Krysjeva County and Virovitica-Podravska County are two counties that have not entered Project C5. And no school from that project in two counties will be built. We are here looking for funds to build 5 halls, for sufining the construction of 5 halls in 5 elementary schools in our county. A school upgrade in St. John the Frog. If it is true that it is financed from decentralised facilities, then do not prevent us from withdrawing those funds. Because the ministry determines what we can look for. And these are minimum standards. If we can finance it from the decentralised means we'll put it in the plan and we'll withdraw those funds for alignment. But I'm surprised by this illogicality that one county can and the other county can't. Especially since none of the 142 schools that are being renovated is from our county. And in the fall now, one of those schools flew off the roof because it was a completely old building. In the second to come the building inspection would ban the work because the children are in danger. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5481	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting enough votes. Amendment number 255 of the IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5482	The amendment is rejected entirely for the reason that the reconstruction of the construction of the elementary school of Potpican is a competent county and city. I'm just saying that all those objects that started before the law was passed in 2001, the ministry funded everything from the budget because they were franc rules. When the rules changed. And what's not enough to date is what we're finishing. That's why we refuse this amendment 254.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5483	255. Here you go, my fellow Thieves.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5484	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, I find it difficult to accept the refusal of this amendment precisely for what I've been saying before. It is practically two schools, one of the Roch district schools to complete the reconstruction of the facility for the needs of the school and a little Glagolitic academy. And this second one for the expansion of those four dots at the Podpican elementary school. I think in this sense for raising the quality and curricula and programmes and for increasing children in that municipality that this should be taken into account in any case. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5485	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting enough support. 256 deputies of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5486	Probably the distinguished Ms. Subol didn't know that this project was financed from the C5 program. We must therefore reject the amendment but the project will be completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5487	Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5488	Representative Gordana Sobol knows that this school gym is financed partly from the C5 programme. However, the municipality or the town of Klanjec is located in the border area with the Republic of Slovenia, it is poorly connected with the centers of the county and Zagreb and is slightly less lagging behind in the economic and cultural life behind the surrounding environments. The budget of the city of Klanjcka amounts to about 2 million and 700 thousand kuna. The town of Klanjec bought the land necessary for the construction of the hall funded projects, a building permit was issued. However, the Kingdom Hall will lack funds and the city of Klanjec will not be able to finance it on its own. In that sense, there goes this amendment of mine. And what I'm saying is that you're not going to believe in the halls of that building during the winter period and the bad weather. So please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5489	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you for not getting enough support. Amendment 257 of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5490	This amendment shall be rejected as a whole for the reasons that, according to the newised legal decisions, funds for these purposes are provided in the budget of the county and the cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5491	My colleague Mršić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5492	So I ask again how to secure money in the county budget in Koprivnica Crossing County for the gasification of primary schools. For example, in Bjelovarska bilogora, this is ensured in the state budget. 2 billion kuna states collect tax revenues in Koprivnica Crossing County, 800 million return for what is needed. A billion kunas leave the state here in Zagreb and redistribute that money. I don't see any reason why it can't be found to raise primary education standards in Koprivnica Crossing County. And we have a school where we don't have either water or gas or a sanitary node that's right and like someone said where the noise is and the kids are in danger of performing, so they can be on class. But if it's really from decentralised means and then tell us, then don't cross us when we're making our annual plans, but what we're planning to do is decentralize, finance us from decentralised funds. We're not asking you to give us someone else's money just leave us the tax money that's being made in Koprivnica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5493	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? He didn't get enough support. 258 MPs, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5494	This amendment is also rejected in full as regards the elementary school of Orehovica for the reason that, according to the new legal decisions, funds for these purposes are provided in the budgets of the county and the cities. But the funds required for Kotoriba Elementary School are already provided as part of a C5 programme that goes within the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism and so on. And therefore, we have a solution for this part, but the amendment must be rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5495	Here you go, Comrade Zrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5496	So I'm satisfied if for Kotoriba Elementary School the funds are secured from credit if that's true. The school should now begin work, because the documentation is complete, the land is arranged. As for Orehovica Elementary School, there are projects near the end, there should be still some funding for land management. The county and the municipality provided certain funds in the budget, but I would like to warn that these two schools should be co-financed from the state budget according to the school model... The shooter who is now in the budget and was also last year, because here in Kotoriba and Orehovica one third of Roma population attends this school at the moment. [[You don't understand.]] In the first classes, they are already over 50% of the participation and I think that in the future, i.e. one and the other schools with one higher amount should be co-financed because neither the county nor the municipalities are able to do so. I would ask all of you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5497	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get enough support. 259 amendments to MP Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5498	The amendment is rejected entirely for the reasons that, according to legal decisions for this purpose, county and city budgets are provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5499	Here you go, fellow Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5500	I therefore requested this amendment to separate the funds for the school of Orehovac in the amount of 2 million kuna, because last year we had two projects that opened exactly according to the same assumptions, so both in Šmarmovac and in Mali Subotica, therefore as a help to the state since the increased number of Roma population students in that school. I hope we can talk about this project over the course of this year and he'll show up next year. And unfortunately, I have to warn myself that this year 2004 is the first year after a few years in which no new school project is opened, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5501	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough support. Amendment 260 was consummated by Amendment 258. Amendment of 261 MPs Radiir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5502	The amendment is rejected entirely for the reasons that, according to legal solutions, funds for these purposes are provided as I have already said many times in the counties and cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5503	Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5504	Thank you very much. Once again, it is not a problem in the law, the problem is that it does not want to give money, if there is a alignment fund, this is what MP Marcic was talking about here, and there are at least five other ways that I can immediately point out to you here. In other words, it's not a problem in shape, it's essentially a problem. You do not want to solve the problem for example of building, building, building a Petrian sports hall. It's a municipality and a school where we have 567 students of which 116 Roma nationalities obviously tend to increase numbers. There is no sports hall, we have no option in any other way to solve it, and that municipality certainly deserves to be helped. I'll read to Mr. Shuker since he tried to correct me, precisely this year 318 million 086911 is the amount on the current budget stock last year with the rebalance was 232468, last year with the rebalance was 157442. In other words, the difference compared to last year with the rebalance of 85 million 518 thousand, and compared to the previous 320 million, pardon 170 million. Items are published in the budget, can be checked. I call on Minister Shuker to respect his statements while he was in opposition, not to increase the government's pausal discretion zone. In other words, it gives Parliament the right to decide on the means. Please reduce current reserves and target those funds into these programs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5505	Do you want to vote on the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5506	No thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5507	Did you withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5508	No, I don't. There's no need to vote. I don't want a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5509	You can't...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5510	Okay. Then I want a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5511	Who's for this amendment please? Thank you. He didn't get support. 262 also an amendment of MPs Radiir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5512	I would like to point out once again that the law adopted in 2001 amended the way capital investment was financed in school, the building of the school hall, and that what was previously agreed was completed. So this is the same case with the building of St. Elijah's elementary school, and that's why we can't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5513	Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5514	Thank you very much. The elementary school of St. Elijah's education process takes place in a building that in itself is a danger to students. She's 165 years old. He's got a rink. Any sonation or upgrade has been disabled and a new building has to be built for which documentation projects have already been developed. Once again, the funds are on the items I have cited and I call for that to be possible. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5515	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 263 representatives of Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5516	This amendment is rejected entirely for the reason that according to the existing degree of realisation of the capital project of the Tomislav Špoljar building in Varazdin, the project in construction, the proposed funds will be sufficient for this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5517	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough. 264 representatives of Mate Gavran and Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5518	The amendment is rejected entirely for the reasons that, according to legal solutions, funds for these purposes are provided in the budget of the county and cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5519	A fellow Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5520	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State Babina Greda belongs to one of the largest Slavonian villages and by the nature of things one of the richest or among the richest Slavonian villages. But neither Babina Greda, nor the Vukovar-Srijem County, can allocate 2 million kuna from its resources to reshuffle M.Stojanovic's primary school. I am sorry that there is not enough hearing, and here we have heard from all the predecessors where there is room for help for Slavonia, and although I am already convinced in advance that this amendment will also experience the fate of all the previous ones, I am still asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5521	Who's up for the amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 265 MPs Željko Pecek, Ljubica Lalic and Bozidar Pankretić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5522	Here we are proposing to build five facilities in the primary school area, but for the same reasons, because of the law passed in 2001 we are not able to finance this in the state budget but it remains for the county and the cities. We therefore reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5523	Here you go, buddy Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5524	Thank you very much. I just don't understand Mr. Secretary of State's explanation. My ambitions were to propose that in Pitomaca, i.e. Dinjevac, Gradina, Špisić Bukovica, Novi Bukovica and Suhopoljska Borova, schools, or sports halls should be built. Cities and municipalities, according to the law, singled out the land, made a project of documentation, set out some money. Does this mean, Mr. Secretary of State, based on your statement that future schools will build entirely from their own sources of cities and municipalities in Croatia? That's how I interpret your statement. Otherwise, this is all ready for construction, in accordance with the good experience so far, that something is participating here the competent city and the community where the school is built, some county and, of course, some state budget. I would ask you to explain, in fact, whether it remains all local or whether it will still be able to count on the help of the state budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5525	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 266. Ivana Chehok has been consummated by Amendment 256. Amendment 267 by MP Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5526	This amendment is rejected, but I must say that the project will be built within the C5 project.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5527	Comrade Pavlic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5528	C5, this one. Maybe I should just point out because I met the Ministry, so, with this project. That it is the oldest school in Međimurje, which is largely attended by students of the Roma population. It is also a border area, and this school also cares for Croatian language programmes for members of the national minority, the Croatian national minority, via Mura immediately in neighbouring villages. Also, the project documentation was created, a work permit was issued, a building permit was issued, that so far the municipality has invested about a million and a half kuna in projects that are finished, land, infrastructure, etc. I will withdraw this amendment of mine, but I would also like to ask that we organise a meeting at the ministry to agree on a financial plan for next year or that second year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5529	I'd like to thank Agent Zeljko Pavlic. Amendment 267 withdrawn. 268. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5530	The construction of a 2 million and 400 kuna city sports hall in Petrinja will be realised within the C5 project run by the Ministry of the Sea. Therefore, the amendment must be rejected, but the project will be realised this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5531	My colleague, Pejo Trječević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5532	Thank you very much. I am pleased with this answer if that is so, because we informed the Government that the City of Petrinja is ready to finance one third of the construction of that hall and as one third of the County of Sisak-Moslavina. Well, then I'm glad this is how it's gonna be realized and I'm withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5533	I want to thank my colleague. 269th Agent Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5534	The amendment is rejected entirely for the reasons that, according to the legal decisions, funds for these purposes are provided in the budgets of the counties and cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5535	Comrade Kolar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5536	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Minister and Secretary General. Well, I didn't expect it to be accepted, but at least to say what had to be said. If so far we bought land, equipment and infrastructure as a unit of local administration, made projects, all possible permits were obtained and we could rely as much on the state budget to meet the needs in the smallest place, so from, say, 500, 600 residents. A small elementary school or a sports hall in a larger place, I think this is your explanation transparent because to lean on a central state is probably the right of every resident in that small and large place, not just to say that the law is determined or not determined. We all know that, however, the practice is quite different and you just know how much of the state budget funding of such projects is because it is simply impossible to break it. And so I ask you to take on the second item, you've already said it on several occasions, or guide us where to get it. Because school isn't any institution and it's not for anyone. She's carrying some weight and where there's no school, I think that place is ruined. From him, he leaves, and you know what we say in the country, where there are parishioners, veterinarians and teachers, I've left us such schools, this place. So please, don't just make this a legal obligation, but it is and it is an obligation for the state to assist such units of local administration and us to rely on the central state for funds. I'm asking for a statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5537	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't get enough. 270th Amendment, also represented by Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5538	For the same reasons, the amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5539	Agent Kolar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5540	So let me do it again. In one place where the ground is prepared, where the terrain is equipped with infrastructure, where projects are made, initial assets, initial assets of local administration units and self-government, I think it makes it clear that it is of interest to us, that we want to finance and that we carry out our legal obligation. However, in such a small place as Trema, in this Koprivnica-Kristevci County, they would never have made a school of their own without relying on a stronger brother or sister, which is the county and central state, and I guess that's some obligation for us all to help each other together because I repeat. In such a place where there is no school, life stops, leaves that place, people don't stay. And that's why, and I think we've set ourselves up for decentralisation, not centralised because Zagreb is too big already, our cities are who they are, they don't even care about providing infrastructure for themselves, and this is the least that the local community expects state aid. I'm asking for a statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5541	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the 271st Representative Joseph Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5542	It's an amendment to similar content, looking for building a school hall, a primary school called Višnica. The amendment cannot be accepted, but I must say quite frankly, we are aware of the position and seriousness of the problem, but we are aware of the facts and we warned in the debate when the law changed on decentralisation in 2001 that it would not be good because these very small schools, in smaller municipalities and cities, could not be upgraded in this way. We will seriously consider it and feel that it is one problem in the Croatian state, but it cannot be solved overnight and obviously it will have to be reviewed by this Law, but when this Law is reviewed and passed here, then we will be able to act on it. For the time being, the situation cannot be accepted for these reasons by this amendment of MP Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5543	Comrade Vresk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5544	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, when the opening presentation of the government's representatives to the state budget was made, and especially when there was a discussion of the clubs and replicas of the government's representatives on the discussion, then it was quite clear how many school facilities will be built on the territory of the Republic of Croatia this year, how many schools will be equipped and built sports halls. We are now discussing that this is not the activity of the Republic of Croatia but that it is the activity of local self-government. Of course, this is about an extremely poor municipality, in the border area of the Republic of Croatia with Slovenia from which people are moving, and if we have any thoughts in favour of demographic renewal, it is absolutely certain that this amendment should have been accepted. I'm asking for a statement, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5545	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 272. also the representative of Joseph Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5546	For the same reason, we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5547	A fellow screamer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5548	The same explanation as the previous amendment, the same poor municipality, the same border area, the same border of the Republic of Slovenia, the same place that, if there are some people and if they have children, then they have no place to go to school. And if they have somewhere to go to school, then they have no place to teach physical culture and protection. Please, Mr. Secretary of State, this is because I know that the municipality is one of the poorest municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, if the funds are not allocated from the state budget, I'm afraid these children will never see the facility in which they should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5549	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not passing. 272 of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5550	Mr. Vresk, you have set up the same amendment regarding the primary school of SV. Ilija as Mr. Cacic I would like to tell you once again as the basic school of Lower Fruit we understand it and we are aware that it will take a different way to finance it but at this point we do not have this legal opportunity and I believe that this Parliament will have to discuss it very quickly in a different way. For now, this amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5551	A fellow screamer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5552	I must say, Mr. President, and Mr. Secretary of State that the oldest part of this school is 165 years old, you can only imagine what conditions children attend that school under. I hope this is enough information that you need to think a little bit more about this amendment and maybe accept it, I'm asking for a statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5553	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 273rd also representing Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5554	For already known reasons, we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5555	A fellow screamer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5556	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The reason is also Mr. Secretary of State. I'm interested in one thing if we really would change the law if this House changed the law would then be a means for those primary schools that I repeat myself to the government so much swearing and speaking in the opening statement of the budget that they would build up, build, schools and sports halls. I'm asking for a statement, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5557	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you for not passing. The amendment of 274 was also an amendment by MP Cacic, which was consummated in the same way as Amendment 275 to the Petrian elementary school and was consummated. 276th Representative Joseph Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5558	The amendment cannot be accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5559	A fellow screamer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5560	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the situation is the same as with the other amendments, it's that indeed these schools that have been allocated to these six amendments are one of the poorest primary schools that I could see. Mr. Secretary of State, if you have time, go to that field anyway, and you will see the conditions under which children attend Ludbreg elementary school, perhaps you will accept this amendment. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5561	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you for not getting the support. Amendment 277 to Agent Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5562	The amendment cannot be accepted for the reasons that according to legal solutions... purposes are provided... county and cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5563	A colleague of Caine's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5564	It's not exactly because there are a whole range of cities in the state budget, the municipalities where these funds are provided for their needs. I would like to remind the Secretary of State that the County of Istria is represented in the budget of the Republic of Croatia with only 28 million kunas, as much as 18 million kunas less than last 2003 when I told the speaker that Istria had never received less money than it did last year. I can only remind myself and the truth is that at the time of Bishop Bogetic, the Reverend Hec, Minister Jurkić-Girardi, there was a construction of the High School at the classical high school in Pazin, however, this is about the need to build a sports hall to call it some civil departments, elementary or secondary schools, and I ask the state to meet the town of Pazin, the county of Istria in that part. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5565	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the support. 278, Mr. Caine's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5566	Yeah, for the same reasons, you can't accept this adjective.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5567	In this amendment in front of the IDS Club, we are asking that only 2 million kuna be provided in the state budget to build a primary school in the city of Buzet. The Secretary of State is aware that the County of Istria has guaranteed that the city of Buzet will provide 3 or 4 million kuna for these purposes, the city of Buzet also provides between 3 and 4 million kunas for the construction of a primary school in Buzet and we hold that if the state budget in that investment would also be participated with 2 million kunas so that the investment could be made already in this year 2004. If the Secretary of State can't accept this argument in front of the IDS Club, I ask that the MPs turn themselves in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5568	What are you?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5569	To vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5570	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you for not getting enough support. 279th Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5571	We cannot accept this amendment, but I point out that the construction of a sports hall in Biograd will be realised as part of the C5 project carried out by the Ministry of the Sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5572	Comrade Antičević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5573	Thank you, Mr. President, as was the argument these days, when the arguments disappeared, then it was a long one, so now it's gone, and now we have a famous project C5. Even when it will be realized, we here with this amendment are specifically looking for this budget year and you then save those funds from famous C5 so you build somewhere else, and here the sports hall for high school in Biograd is so necessary, it is not where high school students have physical education, especially in winter months it is disabled, and for the construction of the music school the land has secured the city of Biograd itself. So when you don't have an argument because you haven't provided these funds you keep referring to that C5, as Citroen C5, it's one project we don't even know when it's going to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5574	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting enough support. The amendment to the 280th Amendment of MP Ante Markov, to this decision on the previous amendment, was also consummated. 281. It's a club of representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5575	This budget provides for the growth of wages for regular work in the frameworks as promised, so we cannot accept this amendment, which requires an increase of €53 million, I am obliged to note that we have inherited a financial commitment to workers in secondary schools from 2001, which refers to the payment of the regression and which is more than 150 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5576	Here you go, fellow Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5577	Well, the argument is the same because they asked for the same thing for primary education, and in secondary school, there will still be less wages than the same professional equipment in public services or in state-owned enterprises. So this increase would raise those salaries so that those high-skilled employees and educators have the same salary with those employees with a high level of expertise in other parts of the state administration without talking to those employees in state-owned enterprises. Therefore, this salary increase is said to be analyzed by the growth of gross social product and inflation. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5578	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 282. Representatives Milanka Opačić and Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5579	I have to say, over the past year, 972 expert IT associates, librarians and foreign language teachers were employed in primary and secondary education. All these employees have been provided with funding in this budget, and new employment of particularly professional and foreign language teachers will continue this year. Therefore, we do not believe that new positions should be opened because everything is covered.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5580	My colleagues, Opačić Milanka, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5581	I told you, Mr. Secretary of State, that we found 127 elementary schools without any professional associate and 58 secondary schools, and we hired 185 professional associates ourselves. That's what I'm talking about, and I'm talking about the problem of solving violence among children won't be solved by informers. Therefore, there are still insufficient numbers of mental health experts. We've now covered that, every school has only one mental health expert. Therefore, there is still a need for the employment of this type of expert and therefore for the team and teams of professional associates, and therefore I ask that my amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5582	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 283. It's a club of representatives of Libra.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5583	For the equipment of professional schools with workshop and cabinet equipment the planned amount of 20 million kuna, 13 million kuna is agreed and 7 million is scheduled for new equipment. We appreciate that it will be enough because it will not be the only source of funds because part of the funding is foreseen under the cards of the programme, so we cannot accept the proposed amendment asking for a double amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5584	Here you go, fellow Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5585	We are therefore asking to raise these funds to 40 million kunas because unfortunately in this system of equipment of vocational schools, workshops and cabinet equipment over the past years it's been easy, it's really small, it takes more resources to make up for it in order to get better connected, connect the economy and education, and that's what we certainly lack in today's system of education and economy. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5586	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 284. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5587	The proposed amendment cannot be accepted because we believe that the proposed amounts will be sufficient for the works that can be carried out in this year, which is the building of the sports hall Krapina, the construction of the Bedekovčina sports hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5588	A fellow screamer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5589	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know if I get it right. Mr. Secretary of State does this mean that school will be built without a sports hall or along with a sports hall in Krapina?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5590	The works that are planned this year will all be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5591	Look out there, there's project documentation. Unfortunately, the county cannot provide funds either for buildings, a school hall in the town of Krapina and also for the sports hall in Bedekovina. Still, I'm asking for a statement on the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5592	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 285th Representative Radimir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5593	We can't accept for the same reasons as the 284 because it's the same, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5594	Thank you very much. It's consummated. 286th Representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5595	The proposed amendment cannot be accepted because the projects will be implemented within the framework of the secured funds project C5. Let's just explain a little bit what kind of project this is. It is a project in which the Croatian state finances 50% and 50% from the Council of Europe's loan. Banks accompanied by the Council of Europe. These are the funds provided and such schools and facilities in Croatia will be built 144 and this is the order of EUR 105 million. Therefore, these are serious funds, a serious programme implemented, this programme is implemented through the Ministry of the Sea, so that some MPs who may not have understood what kind of project it is will certainly be done because contracts are signed and agreed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5596	Here you go, buddy Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5597	I thank the Secretary of State. I'm happy with the answer. If you can still repeat the amount alone. Or didn't you say what amount you'd be tracking in, in the C program?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5598	No, not because the project, because the project isn't going through our ministry, it's going to be, but it's all about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5599	Okay. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5600	I'd like to thank my colleague Anton Peru. Amendment withdrawn. 287th Representative Luka Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5601	We cannot accept Mr Roic's amendment since it is the third stage of work to build a secondary school in Korcula. Currently, there are documentation for the construction permit, and technical documentation for the building of the school hall is being prepared. We therefore appreciate that the estimated amount will be sufficient for this year's work. Of course the sequel follows in next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5602	I'm a colleague of Roic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5603	Here, it's good. It means reconstructing a high school building in Korčula and building a school hall. I would just point out that the high school in Korčula had rooms in two locations and therefore moved to the construction of a new building in which the entire school would be located. The project was launched as you said with phase one and phase two. The second phase project envisions building a school building and a sports hall so classes from high school can move to a new location, thus uniting the school process in one place with all the facilities, and it would be especially important to build a school hall. I can be partially satisfied and satisfied, but I'm still looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5604	Who's for this amendment please? Thank you. He didn't make it. The team was consummated and next amendment 288. Amendment 289 of Representative Radiir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5605	The amendment is rejected entirely for the reason that the previous works already consisted of a final calculation, and part of the works relating to the outer facade and the inner courtyard should be agreed together with the town of Varazdin and the Ministry of Culture because this is about the monument of the zero category. That's why we can't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5606	Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5607	He's gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5608	He's got it. He's here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5609	Excuse me. Please vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5610	Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? He didn't make it. In 290, also a representative of Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5611	The amendment is not accepted for known reasons because the solutions provide for these purposes in the budget of counties and cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5612	Comrade Cacic, Amendment 290, your, uh, building building of Varazdin High.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5613	Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5614	Thank you. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't make it. 291st also Mr. Cacic's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5615	The amendment of Mr. Cacic to the building of the Elektrostrojar School of Varazdin for known reasons that it is within the authority of the budget of the county and cities cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5616	It's my buddy's little chateau.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5617	Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5618	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 292. Also representative of Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5619	292?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5620	292.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5621	The amendment requires 8 million and 400 thousand kuna instead of the proposed three million kuna for the construction of the sports hall of Bedekovčina, the proposed amount is considered sufficient for this year, and since it will not be the only funds, it will also provide part of the funds that will be financed by 40%. It is currently a matter of signing a surveillance contract, and then setting out the criteria and calling a tender, selecting a contractor. Therefore, we do not believe that, with these funds and the resources of the municipalities in this year, the amount should be increased. Because of all the above-mentioned amendments, we cannot accept. But this object will be completed in the following year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5622	It's my buddy's little chateau.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5623	Thank you very much. I'm happy with the answer. If this is also a commitment that the facility will be completed as planned, that's how I realized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5624	Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn. 293. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5625	The word is sports halls of tourist... catering schools from Pula. I must say that this project will be financed from the C5 programThe word of the sports hall of tourism,...a catering school from Pula. I have to say this project will be financed from the C5 program. Therefore, the amendment cannot be accepted. But under the Ministry of the Sea programme in the C5 programme, this project will be completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5626	A fellow Drandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5627	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. I'm just curious, to hear explicitly from you, is this project going to solve the problem of Stojak elementary school, which is shared with this high school? Does that ring a bell?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5629	Thank you, then I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5630	Thank you. Amendment 293 withdrawn. Amendment 294.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5631	Construction... High school in Bjelovar will begin this year after the appeal procedure for the selection of performers is completed. [[for the announcement, the speaker doesn't understand]] And after the re-scheduling of the competitions for the contractors. Since very clearly specified deadlines for all legally envisaged activities are, we appreciate that the proposed amount of 2 million kuna in this year is sufficient, therefore the amendment of Lugaric's representative cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5632	Comrade Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5633	In fact, these arguments of Mr. Secretary of State seem reasonable. But I couldn't quite agree with that. Since we know that last year's budget provided an amount of 6 million kuna, which was later not precisely because of these problems you're talking about were not all withdrawn and the rebalancing was reduced. So I submitted this amendment. That it is so, that not only does I think, talks and amendments that follow, the truth God with something different amounts of almost all MPs from the second constituency and Bjelovar-Bilogor County except for representatives and representatives of HDZ who obviously do not advocate such things. So it seems that after all, me and other colleagues who have submitted an amendment to similar content are right, so I am asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5634	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 295th representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5635	I must say that this amendment is similar to Amendment 294 and we cannot accept it for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5636	Comrade Mršić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5637	As far as I know, the appeal procedure is closed, so the tender has been cancelled and it's being called, as far as I know, the contest has been canceled. Or maybe we have different information. But that doesn't mean you're right. Let me have my information, you have yours. As far as I know, the contest has been canceled, and it's preparing for a new contest. If a new tender passes, and it takes two, two and a half months this year, it will take more than 2 million kunas, because with two million kunas you can't even prepare a construction site for 4 secondary schools. I therefore propose that this item certainly be increased in order to allow for the conclusion of the contract, because, in the principle we have, it will not be possible to conclude a contract of 2 million kuna for the project, i.e. to carry out works of 72 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5638	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 296. Zdenka Chuhil.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5639	Yes, the amendment cannot be accepted. And the same explanation as the 294, because it's the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5640	My colleagues heard it. Take it back, thank you. MPs Đurđe Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5641	Also, the proposed amendment also concerns building a joint building.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5642	That's consummated, excuse me. It's not? And this one's pulled, okay, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5643	The proposed amendment also concerns the construction of a joint building for 4 secondary schools in Bjelovar, we also cannot accept, we said that, in this year after the appeal of the selection of performers is completed, and after the re-scheduling of competitions for contractors, that very clearly defined deadlines for all legitimately planned actions, we appreciate that two million kunas as planned will be sufficient to support the site.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5644	Comrade Adlesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5645	Mr. President, there's something clearer to me right now. I believe my proposal is entirely realistic, unlike any other suggestions. However, I am prepared to withdraw it, if you as Secretary of State can say that if the tender is conducted within two million, this will not be enough, that you are then rebalanced to secure the rest of the funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5646	He can't say. Gentlemen, we all know the procedure together. An indication of the applicant. You're looking for a co-worker's vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5647	No, because I have a promise from the secretary of state by nod.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5648	Thank you very much. Thank you. Now I think 298 is the same as this one, but.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5649	Yes, I want to make it clear here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5650	There's a little, take it easy, Mr. Secretary. There's a small difference, so please choose to show yourself about him.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5651	The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSS is the same as Amendment 297 and cannot be accepted for the same reasons. But let me say that we take special care of all the facilities and the planning of the funds, so that the buildings, relative to the construction sites, would not suffer. It is therefore understandable that the Ministry takes care of open construction sites and what needs to be done. This amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5652	Mr. Kolar, but the same are the amendments. Here I am now seeing that the same amendment as Mrs. Chuhnil, but a colleague, but he was withdrawn. All right, all right, he's retired.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5653	Well, it's so different that I'm a secretary of state, I have to take my word for it, you know, the word is wind. and I'd like us to seriously discuss it and put it into the program, so that it's certainly being built. In the end, these promises that have been made many times already are like this or like this. And on behalf of the HSS Club, I demand a vote on that amendment. But at the same time, we remember the promises made.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5654	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't make it. 299th representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5655	Mr. MP Mršić proposes building a gymnasium and sports hall in Koprivnica with an amount of 15 million kuna. The amendment cannot be accepted, given that it is a capital project which was not initiated before 1 July 2001, as before the amendment of the law, so it should be run in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local self-government and administration and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on secondary education.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5656	Comrade Mršić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5657	If only you could nod your head to me. I don't know why you systematically punish Koprivnica-Kristevnica County? All primary and secondary schools in Koprivnica were built by the self-delivery of the people of Koprivnica or the former municipality of Koprivnica, and the last school in Koprivnica was built 30 years ago by the school in Koprivnica. Today, class in that high school takes place in three high schools in three shifts and all the hallways we could have built up the classrooms and even some sanitary knots. The town of Koprivnica has invested more than 15 million kunas in this project so far and the project has won its first prize at Zagreb's architecture salon. I don't see any reason between this project and all the other projects of high schools that are in this budget because none of them were started before 31 July 2001. I don't really know why you are systematically punishing Koprivnica in this budget because today, when I return home, I will read the Law on decentralisation and see really your words. But if that's the case, then don't stop us from installing this school into the county budget and withdrawing those funds from the Alignment Fund and then funding them from decentralised funds. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5658	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't make it. Here we are on amendment 300. Also representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5659	The amendment seeks to build the school space of the Ivan Seljanec secondary school in Križevci and build a student home in Križevci. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on secondary education, amendments cannot be accepted. But here I want to make it clear that not only for the Križevci or for Koprivnica we have nothing special, so here it is only about legal provisions, but it is a dear Croatian neighborhood for us, but we need to change something seriously because the Members of Parliament here have proved that something in this planning is not right and it is about the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5660	Comrade Mršić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5661	Nothing is different, only the law applies to someone in one way and to someone else in another way. So these schools are also running after 31 July 2001 as well as a large majority of those financed in this state budget, as well as all 144 schools in the C5 programme. 142, but I'm asking why the Koprivnica-Kristevnica County and Virovitica-Podravska are not in the programme? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's the question. It is impossible that in a billion and 200 million kunas, as many as the citizens of this county stand out to meet their common functions, there are no 25 million for education in the county to create conditions that children can go to two shifts in school. Not in one, two o'clock. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5662	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 301st Representative Radiir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5663	The amendment is not accepted because, according to the legal decisions, the funds are provided in the budgets of the counties and cities, it is already known.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5664	Come on in, pal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5665	Thank you very much. The point is that from July 17th to 24th, 2005, the city of Varazdin will host 13. World Fire Olympics. Since these competitors will be located in the premises of secondary schools, it is necessary to sort and secure the required number of sanitary nodes and this is about an amendment that predicts whether through decentralised means, whether through... , do whatever we want. [[You don't understand.]] Once again, I mention north-west Croatia deserves the same attention and a proper standard in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5666	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 302. Representative Furi Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5667	Representative Furia Radina, seeking an amount of 2 million and 400 thousand kuna instead of the proposed million kuna for the construction of the Sports Hall of the Central Italian School in Pula, cannot accept but we consider the proposed amount sufficient this year because the project is in the initial phase but I would like to say that it is an international contract that will be financed. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5668	Comrade Radin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5669	This project has been funded more than 80% of the Republic of Italy and as such is not so much a problem here in financing the project itself but in participating in this funding from the Republic of Croatia because it is schools that will then belong to the Republic of Croatia or local self-government. I'd just like to ask you one thing. Since the construction of a financial structure must be completed if the ministry is then bound by a letter of intent that the rest will be financed at the end of the construction so that the construction of the school could begin. I'd like to ask you to be clear about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5670	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5671	Thank you very much. Then I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5672	It can't be obvious, it can't be bound on behalf of the government if there's going to be anything else. You know your colleague, Radin, the same procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5673	I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5674	Comrade Radin, the procedure is for all equals. I read or anyone who presides reads the amendment that is represented, the government is showing up about him, you give an explanation and there goes the vote. It's impossible to conduct polemic debates because I can't make an exception for anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5675	Yeah. Well, then I'll say if you'll allow me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5676	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5677	Then I'll formulate it the next way. It's impossible to start construction without closing the financial structure. Then for us a million or 2 million 400 is exactly the same then, we better wait for money from abroad to close that financial structure. If you tell us that, I won't pollemize. However, starting constructions are always completed in the second year. It's a natural thing that Mr. Secretary of State can't be committed for this year. It can be committed, however, for next year. Here, that's what I wanted to point out.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5678	Hey, buddy, are you asking for a vote, please? Are you asking for a vote or are you satisfied with an explanation of the government's representatives?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5679	I'm pleased with the government's explanation. I'm not happy with what happened after that explanation. I'm happy with the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5680	Please, are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5681	I'm not asking for a vote if the explanation of Mr. Secretary of State is yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5682	Amendment withdrawn. 303rd representative Željko Pecek, Ljubice Lalic and Bozidar Pankretić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5683	The amendment is rejected for the reason that, according to novellised legal decisions, funds for these purposes are provided in the budgets of the counties and cities. Realisation of the county's capital project Virovitica-Podravska has already begun.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5684	Comrade Pecek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5685	Thank you very much. This is my last amendment, so let's try to recapture what's happened since the 12 candidate projects for Virovitica-Podravna County. High school and science zero, high school zero, primary school million kuna, sport zero. So, your Ministry of Virovitica-Podravna County 1 million kuna in the entire financial year. I think this is a precedent, and this is a disastrously bad suggestion. By the way, I watched the second part of my constituency, it's Osijek-Baranja County, primary school, high school zero. A good part of Slavonia million kuna investment in adaptation, in building and equipping primary and secondary schools. Only these 12 projects that I have followed according to your criteria, cities and municipalities have invested in buying and equipping land, in project documentation, in producing a building permit between 15 and 20 million kunas. So local self-government has singled out 15 times more, and that wasn't enough to include at least one quality project in area 2 of the county. What we have left to do is wait for the C5 for school, wait for the C5 for the corridor, just a very vague situation. I would like to express one high uncertainty for the area of Virovitica-Podravska County where only a million kunas will be found, these are the figures that are real, so I don't need you to nod my head that it will be realized because it is about 6 kuna per capita of that county. Of course, I'm asking to vote on my proposals to possibly pass the construction of a professional school in Virovitica and to vote on the adaptation of the military in Slatina that started last year, for which the contract was signed and which should continue this year. However, according to your reactions, I know by now that we will remain on those million kunas for the entire county. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5686	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the size he needed. 304th Agent Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5687	This amendment requires the construction of a gymnasium and sports station in Koprivnica, the addition of the sports space of the secondary school Ivan Seljanec Križevci, the construction of a student home in Križevci. As amended in 299 and 300, we cannot accept the amendment for the reasons we explained there because it is under the law passed by this House in 2001 in the jurisdiction of municipalities and cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5688	Comrade Kolar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5689	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, let me first use this upgrade to high school school space in the Križevci, an explanation. It's a building of 2490 square meters combined using actually high school one and the other, two high schools. And the five-day working week starts in the morning at 7:00 p.m., ends late at night. 11 classrooms with cabinets, otherwise the building is scheduled for 8 classrooms on tour. The current state of excess exceeds the mentioned standards, and we know what our standards are. There are 32 grade departments in the building, and almost 900 students benefit. The town of Križevci has joined the construction of a project documentation for the construction of the building, a building plot worth 330 thousand kuna, a building permit has been obtained, the calculation value is 18 million. And we thought we had the right to rely on state budget funds because we are providing from our own resources from 2004 to 2006. Nine million kuna. But now we see that our obstacle is the law. We propose amendments, in this sense, to supplement or pass new laws so that we should finally finance ourselves from an expensive budget and expect this initiative to be in these benches as soon as possible so as not to be an obstacle. And for all the others, my colleague Mršić has already said. And I'm asking for a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5690	Who's for this amendment please? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The amendment of 305 was consummated by the vote on Amendment 290. Amendment 306 of Representative Joseph Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5691	The proposed amendment is identical to Amendment 301. We cannot accept this amendment with the explanation we have already said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5692	Yeah, but my colleague Cacic pulled the amendment and so it's obvious here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5693	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, it is a fire-fighting Olympics that will be organised during this summer in the city of Varazdin. The city of Varazdin does not have the means to train the schools in which the competitors will stay. So when we haven't given the firemen for that part of the season's activities, let's at least give them what they want so they can stay decently and rehabilitate schools for that stay this summer. I'm not satisfied with the explanation, and I'm asking for a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5694	Who's up for this amendment. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendments 307 and 308 already voted. 307 votes for amendments 291 and 308 to the amendment to vote 283, 289, yes. Amendment 309. HSP counseling club. With this amendment, the HSP Representatives Club is seeking to open a new position for the creation of a new electricity network in Sibenik High School with an amount of 2 million kuna. We're assuming the name of the position isn't accurate. However, the proposed amount and the new position cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5696	And what new position?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5697	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5698	To what new position.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5699	No, no, no, no, the position isn't precise and we can't accept the new position you suggested, so.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5700	So we agree that you set your own position to accept. You do that, it's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5701	It's your amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5702	Watch out if you were in that high school, if it was net then he could see what that isolation was, how old it was. It's a situation that can't be worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5703	We can't accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5704	We agree to make that part for high school. That isolation took so long that it was already life-threatening. Yeah, life-threatening, and we can't give up on that. But we agree that you, within your budget, put it in another position, no problem at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5705	We have to vote. Who's up for that amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 310 of Parliament to Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5706	The amendment is not accepted. 67 million kuna is enough for scholarships from students receiving scholarships in the previously scheduled competition as well as for the number of 4 thousand new scholarships for the academic year 2003/04. Students are also scholarshipd by the frameworks of the 55th International Cooperation activities and by the activities of the 10th budget of the works, the activities of Zagreb University, Rijeka, Osijek, Split, Zadar, Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5707	Comrade Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5708	I will not look at these incorrect allegations of international co-operation at all because of the scholarships it grants, then the Ministry of Science. First, I asked this amendment to leave funds for scholarships to regular students at the level they were in 2003. This government of Eve Sanader is reducing 3 million kunas for scholarships to students. If somehow it can be realized that because of some party discipline you did not accept an increase in child benefits, you did not accept an increase in pensions, you did not accept for young people in general, so give those three million kunas for students who are small anyway, you advocate it, you are constantly boasting about it and you are reducing money for scholarships to students. Second, the campaign promised to pay children's fees back to students. Minister Primorac said three days ago he would introduce new scholarships to students. Not only will they not be able to give them extras because you have reduced the funding for children's allowances but you have reduced the funding for scholarships, so I don't understand how you will pay the scholarships to those who are receiving them so far, and how you are just introducing new scholarships. I therefore ask the vote and, in particular, the representatives who are in the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and who have advocated it on the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5709	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. Libra Club 311.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5710	The amendment is not accepted. The National Foundation for Science and Higher Education has so far been financed exclusively from the state budget except for interest gains, the funding of the Foundation is foreseen from the budget as from other sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5711	Thank you very much. It's the Club of Representatives of the Libre, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5712	Well, here's an explanation. I think very excessively, therefore, the National Science Compensation Act for higher education and technological development adopted at the end of 2001, and we remember it unanimously and well with the enthusiasm of all clubs and opposition and others. In 2002 it was paid out of the state budget at the expense of 52 million, in 2003 65 million were planned. It is clear that adequate resources should be provided, and I would like to say that the means provided are completely contrary to what the HDZ has announced in the pre-election campaign. As much as possible on the agenda on science and education today's Vice-President of the Government, Hebrang announced perhaps not knowing that the national foundation had already formed a much better quality funding of scientific research, just by establishing a foundation for science. So she exists. So in order for the foundation to really function seriously over a few years as expected and for a reform of high education and technology to occur, development is simply necessary to accept this amount that we have proposed, which is 30 million plus 35, together 65 million. The proposal is explained, I would ask the vote unless Kolega Šetić had changed his mind because some new conditions were created to maybe accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5713	Thank you very much. Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 312 of Ms. Marija Lugaric's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5714	The amendment is not accepted within the framework of the programme of improvement of student standards, the accommodation of students in dormitories is funded. The difference between accommodation and nutrition in students' dormitories and other activities affecting the improvement of student standards. The implementation of this budgetary activity in the early years has shown that 90 million kuna funds are sufficient for all planned activities in 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5715	Thank you very much. Ms. Marija LUgarić's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5716	I can't believe I'm hearing these kinds of statements already. Namely, they are quite different from those that Mr. Secretary of State said on Friday, swearing to raise funds for science, education, students in excellence and so on. Here again, we have a reduction in funding for students on a rather important social component, as Col. Šetić himself said, is reduced by 4 million kuna funds to subsidise the sleep of students, transports of everything that belongs to the elementary student standard. Thus, the resources so far amounted to 94 million kunas are only conditionally sufficient if we take into account the necessary increases since the prices set and which countries subsidized do not have very little to do with the economic price. Therefore, this item should not only have been kept at the level of last year's what I seek with my amendment, but should have been significantly increased. Therefore, I once again ask all MPs to support this amendment because by supporting this amendment, they will only equate the funds for the student standard they have been in the past year. And I think we must not forget that in our country in the Republic of Croatia there are only 7% of highly educated people, if we do not invest in students who need to improve this educational structure of Croatia, and introduce Croatia stronger steps into development and into the European Union then I do not know who should be supported. Thank you very much. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5717	Thank you very much. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't make it. 313 Club of Representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5718	This amendment is related to the Dubrovnik University the amendment is not accepted because no expert assumptions for the implementation of the said amendment are currently created.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5719	Thank you very much. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5720	Well, Mr. Šetić, I think there's just been a simple mistake some activities have been transferred to the University of Dubrovnik, and it simply needs to be made possible to finance. Part of it, for example. These activities have been transferred from Split so this should be agreed and yours and our interest is that therefore good university teaching is taking place in Duborvnik. together we have voted only on this in the last council's call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5721	Thank you very much. Who's in? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Mr. William Herman's representative is the 314th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5722	Amandamn is not accepted, the proposal for a state budget fully accepts the draft budget of the University of Josip Juraj Strosmayer in Osijek. note that the University of Josip Juraj Strosmayer in Osijek is still benefiting from capital activities and funds secured by a loan of 180 million kuna to the Slavonian bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5723	Thank you very much, sir. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5724	This is true, but one of the critical points of the University of Josip Jurj Strossmayer in Osijek is no doubt a city and university library, so if you want to invest in them if you want to run Croatia there is no doubt that this almost symbolic amount is almost so helpful in this critical university and city library. And of course it's also an incentive for young scientific workers to make money. Here's what's possible is that there's understanding and there's misunderstanding on my part if that understanding doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5725	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 315 of Biserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5726	This amendment is not accepted. Namely, the 316 amendment is similar, the University of Rijeka for Capital Activities has used the funds secured by the loan to Zagreb Bank in the amount of 88 million kuna and part of the funds secured by the loan of 70 million kuna. for the completion of capital activities, the Ministry of Education and Sports are known preparation of the University of Rijeka for the construction of campus former military Trisat. The ministry was launched in 2004 as part of the funds to prepare the documents for the construction of the campus.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5727	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5728	Thank you very much. As Mr. Secretary of State has said, it's about loans that need to be paid back in the course of the year and part of the principal. And the rest of the funds are needed to begin and implement this university campus, i.e. in order for all the University of Rijeka to be placed on the premises of the current military station on Trsat. Given the fact that this project is not only important for Rijeka and Primorje Goran County, but also for all those other cities and counties that are gravitating in Rijeka. And in terms of the better and better quality science program at the university, I think that the teaching staff and students of the University of Rijeka deserve this kind of project so far, so please put this in the budget, that is, to vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5729	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 316 of Ms. Dorota Pesic-Bukovac's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5730	Representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac has set up the same amendment as MP Perman, with only 69 million less. Therefore, we cannot offer any other answer but that which was and the amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5731	Here you go, Mrs. Dorotea.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5732	I thought even though I didn't ask for the full amount because it would certainly co-finance the city of Rijeka and County, that the state would still invest a little more in one such student drop, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5733	Thank you very much. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 317 to the Club of Representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5734	The amendment cannot be accepted. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has provided 300 new retro-refromic places as well as 150 recruits and about 150 assistant posts within the framework of Glava X. High Education, regular activity of the University of Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek, Split, Zadar, Dubrovnik. Reform programmes are implemented through projects and programmes within the framework of individual chapters, so 45, 55, 15 and 50 budgets of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5735	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5736	I don't think the answer is adequate and applies to anything else, but I'll let you know now. In fact, if we are going to respect the Bologna Declaration, the Lisbon Convention remains, of course, the aim of harmonising higher education, because of significantly greater mobility, both students and professors. I do not think it is necessary in particular to explain this except that, of course, this not so small means are necessary to provide for the establishment of specific agencies that we are obliged to set up, which is also the condition for entering the European Union and therefore the proposal for this amendment, not what you spoke of, Mr Secretary of State. Perhaps it will change your mind as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5737	Thank you very much. Did he change his mind? It's not. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 318 to MP Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5738	This amendment cannot be accepted. The investment maintenance of public institutes is financed from the costs of so-called cold drive.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5739	Here you go, Madam Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5740	I placed this amendment in that position because this obligation by the Ministry of Science in the 2003 budget was in that position. It is about an agreement that I am holding here, building the primary school Čakovec south and taking over the building with the belonging land of the current second elementary school Čakovec for the needs of higher school and establishing other higher and higher education institutions. The assessment of the building and land found that it was worth 12 million 885 thousand 575 kuna and 59 limes. In 2002 and 2003, a total of 8 million kunas were paid, 4 million 885 thousand kuna and 59 limes left. If the obligations signed and by the ministry are not realised, then the Government, as has been done with the amendments that we have given for the sewerage where it is secured for a million kunas less, which means that the Government itself is sending a message to our citizens, do not pay your obligations. I ask you nicely, I will give you this agreement if you have not seen it and that this problem is solved during the year because the completion of the primary school south in Čakovec is also related to these funds. I'm asking you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5741	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. It also consumed 319 amendments by representatives of Dragutin Lesar and 320 representatives of Željko Pavlica. 321 Club of Representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5742	The amendment cannot be accepted. The programmes and projects of research activities as well as the program of training of scientific recruits are not only financed from Chapter 44 of the research activity but also through the activities of other chapters within the division of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5743	Mr. Agent Herman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5744	Yes, this is exactly what you said, but not the answer to real needs. Here's just a warning. It is generally known that the assumption for development and for increasing competitiveness, and here it is, an important increase in the number of highly educated and it should be stubbornly repeated that our Croatia is three times worse than the countries of the European Union in this, and significantly worse than the vast majority of transition countries. Our percentage is 7%, the average in the European Union is 20%, in Finland and Ireland, almost worth comparing in Hungary, so 15%. When the number of scientific recruits is actually just a scientific spring, something can be done. Not at all would it turn out to be so, their salaries would require a total of around 203 million kuna. This means that an increase of 7.7% or more is foreseen from the current 2,000 to 400 to 2,000 and 585. It's for only 185 scientific recruits. Since the total number of graduate students is about 12 thousand a year, 10% of the best is about 1200 a year, and the state plans only very rare among them to provide an opportunity here I remind you of this number of 185. Maybe I was able to convince you, maybe I was able to convince both colleagues and colleagues. It really is a serious question, whether 185 or what will enable us to join Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5745	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the votes he needed. 322 MP Mrs. Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5746	In order for the distinguished representative of the programmes and projects of research activities, intellectual personal services are proposed to increase from 151 million to 185, so over 30 million. We cannot accept this amendment, but we point out that part of the intellectual services is also financed under the costs of cold drive and project costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5747	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marija Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5748	At the very least, strange explanations. When we had that student scholarship reduction so it was said to you in Chapter 44, when we came to Chapter 44 you again it was in Chapter 43, so everywhere and actually nowhere. What is the reality that the funding for scientific programmes and research projects is reduced by almost 35 million kuna compared to the previous government, and here we were praised that it increased the budget for science both for transfers and science and technology. I don't think anyone should be explained here that the funds we had last year were also minimal and at a very low level if we compare ourselves to Europe, let alone now that we cut them by 30 million. That's why I'm asking the vote because it's a very important thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5749	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. 323 MP Mrs. Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5750	We don't accept the amendment. Ms. Lugaric, I am sorry that she is a bit of a distortion of the facts and I must say that the overall separation for science in this budget has increased far from what you are saying, more than 6%. And here I would also like to say that the scientific training and scholarship of graduates to higher universities, public institutes is not only funded from Chapter 44, scientific research activity, but also from Chapter 10, higher education, regular activity of the University of Glava 55, international cooperation within the division of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5751	Mrs. Maria Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5752	We've already been through this jerking with our heads, so I'm not gonna talk about it again. Namely, the distortion of facts. The numbers are very clear. In the 2003 budget, scholarship and scientific training of graduates 8 million 300,000 kuna, the 2004 budget. HDZ's proposal, down to six and a half million kuna. So, not only have you reduced the amounts for child benefits, for pensions, for scholarships to students, but you are reducing the amounts for scholarships and for the scientific training of graduates, and then all those beautiful stories about increasing the resources for science, the implementation of higher education and science reform, the acceptance of the Bollogn Declaration in entering the European scientific space, everything remains only stories because the figures show that you do not really think that because you have reduced the funds for scholarships and scientific training of graduates. So I'm asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5753	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't get the votes he needed. 324, again representing Ms. Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5754	The amendment cannot be accepted. The National Foundation for Science and Higher Education has so far been financed exclusively from the state budget, except for interest gains. Funding the trust provided for in the budget as from other sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5755	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5756	I mean, I can't accept this argument. One part of the answer to this was given by a colleague named Herman, so I'm not gonna say it again. In fact, the government says it increases resources for science and higher education, for scientific research, but it only says that because the figure says so. In 2003, the government of SDP and coalition partners, 15 million kunas, the HDZ government science, high education, technological development of 1 million kunas. So you can advocate, you can talk, and you've reduced 14 times the resources for science programs, high education and technological development, which is quite the opposite of what you're saying. So I ask you once again to stop talking and start working specifically because you can only start Croatia if you invest in science, in higher education, in technological development and transfer it to the economy. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5757	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He's not accepted. 325th, Club of Representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5758	It's already been consumed in this. So it's the same explanation. We can't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5759	I don't know if it's been consummated. Anyway, I'd like you to make a statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5760	We can't accept it, I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5761	Mr. Representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5762	Well, I feel so hopeless right now. That's all I wanted to say. I gave an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5763	Thank you very much. It's not optimistic. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. Mrs. Lugaric, you have now entered here, you have failed to comply with the law or submitted any of your amendments. This amendment has not passed, it has not received the required number of votes. Club of Representatives of libre, 326.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5764	The amendment cannot be accepted. Scientific equipment and maintenance is financed not only from the activities of Chapter 44, scientific research activity, but from the activities of Chapter 10, higher education, Chapter 50, technological research activities within the division of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5765	The Club of Representatives of libre, Mr. Herman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5766	Well, here's the thing, at the end of the day, it really would be necessary to allocate more resources, but I think I need to spare my colleague, Štić, this time. And so can Squishy. Because he's gonna refuse that amendment. It's about equipment for scientific research, and if there's no understanding of it, I'll just say thank you. A set of these Librarian laws in the field of science has been completed, more or less, and I alone, allow me, Mr. Chairman. I know I'm abuser, but I want to say one of my feelings, not just deep disappointments, but come on, at least show some understanding in some part. So it's not possible for the ruling to give no amendment without all these amendments on the other hand being no good at all. Thank you very much and thank you, Mr. Baby, for letting me know.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5767	Thank you very much. Last year an amendment to HSS one was accepted, so hope that some will be accepted by the end. Otherwise, I thank you, the representatives of LIBRE, who have submitted each of their amendments in accordance with the law. Amendment number 327, MP Damir Cain. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5768	We cannot accept this amendment for the reasons that the funds have already been allocated by the activities, but it is a small amount of funding and therefore we ask the MPs to provide us with a full programme of equipment for the Višnjan starry, and we will also consider the proposal when drawing up the 2005 draft budget and perhaps sooner if we can solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5769	Mr. Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5770	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Yeah, I wouldn't like to, as Mr. Herman says, if Mr. Šetić were called Mr. Štedić. Someone just said who's against the stars doesn't write well. However, it is a starry in Visnjan. Croatia doesn't know what kind of pearl, gentlemen, it owns. When the discovery of asteroids is due, it's by efficiency, I don't know, productivity. 10th Starhouse in the world or better said among the 10 most productive in the world. In 99, it was among the two most productive in the world, absolutely in the first place in Europe. It can be measured by the leading stars of the American army. They discovered, headed by Mr. Korad Korlovic, a thousand 400 asteroids, they discovered two comets, more variable stars. It is true and so far the state of Croatia has participated in the cost of the starry. It seems to me there from the early '90s to today with about 700 thousand kuna. The County of Istria twice as many. She gave a little modestly, clearly, according to her own options and Višnjan municipalities, but I would really ask to support these modest 200 thousand kunas for this 2004, not that we are now transferring or looking for them in the 2005 budget. And therefore, I would ask my colleagues from the government to support this tiny little money of 200 thousand kuna for one, in the true sense of that word, scientific pearl owned by the Republic of Croatia. I repeat, so far they've discovered over a thousand 400 asteroids. [[Intruder: It is the only romantic amendment.]] [[Let's go, let's go, vote.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5771	Thank you. Here, we'll vote in the romantic atmosphere. Who's in? Thank you very much. Please count.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5772	Let it count, we're looking individually outside the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5773	Let the quorum be determined and count. Please establish the quorum and count the votes. Who's in?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5774	When the reinforcements arrive, it's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5775	The quorum is 91. How much did it vote for? 34, the amendment hasn't passed. Please note that this amendment has not been passed in relation to the number of representatives in the O.R. Let's move on. The 328th Amendment of Madam Representative Željke Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5776	The amendment is not accepted for the following reasons, but Ms. Antunovic has set up a very complex amendment, so I ask you for some attention because it will take a little longer to explain. Position A. 628009 amounting to 11 million 135 thousand and 156 kuna refers to the regular activity of the Croatian academic and research network Carnet with the amount of fully covered salaries and material costs of Carnet. Position A 628001 of 19 million kuna refers to the programme of telecommunications facilities for the Carnet network or to the payment of leased links and services for the needs of the access network's backbone. According to a report submitted by Carnet, all telecommunications facilities were purchased from HT d.d. The contract implemented in 2003 amounted to 12 million 84 thousand 587.5.6 kuna, contract commitments according to HT in 2004 were 11 million 800 thousand 327,5.6 kuna, which was fully covered by the proposed amount and also left plenty of space for enlargement and development. Position A 628012, amounting to 6 million kuna, refers to the development and application of Internet technology of the Carnet project according to the Carnet submitted report on open contracts for the project in 2003 and 4 year, it is necessary to provide 3 million kunas, which is fully covered by the proposed amount and leaves enough space for development and the launch of new projects. Position A 628015 of 16 million kuna refers to the inclusion of Carnet network in pan-European academic research networks according to the Carnet open contract report for 2003 and the 4th year contract with Dante, with Gent service from 1 January 2004 to 31 January 2004. 12. In 2004, it was made at 14 million 677 thousand 914.10 kuna, fully covered by the proposed amount. Position K 40669 Carnet joint RH infrastructure of 5 million kuna refers to the purchase of passive and active equipment and software for the backbone and access network Carnet. According to the Framework Programme provided, to finance the Carnet Institute's 2004 plan, the cost of equipment and software support for the backbone and access network and the support system for the institutions of the Member States is 3 million and 500 thousand kuna, fully covered by the proposed amount and sufficient space for enlargement and development has been left. And the final position K 406716 Carnet issued capital investments amounting to 500 thousand kuna relating to the purchase of a new vehicle of space for the requested increase of Ms. zastava is unfounded because in 2003 a luxury vehicle of 190 thousand kuna was purchased and an adaptation of the business facility was made, equipment with office equipment and furniture amounting to 3 million 240 thousand kuna. These are all the reasons why we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5777	Thank you for your comprehensive explanation, Mrs. Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5778	And I thank you for this comprehensive explanation, but unfortunately it is based only on the naked survival of the Carnet Croatian academic research network and this explanation is in complete harmony with the government programme of the Republic of Croatia which develops and initiates Croatian bases on the development, strengthening and dissemination of information technology, information knowledge and IT availability. The problem and the proposal for my amendment is based on the fact that the lack of funds will be 25% less than in the previous year to stop Carnet network development projects and 100 thousand users or 100% more than in 2002 will not be able to increase further. I certainly did not submit this amendment because I would like to coordinate the allocations for information technology with the Government programme, but precisely because of these 100,000 users and potential 100,000 users who will not be allowed to do so. Please vote on this amendment for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5779	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 329. HNS PGS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5780	A similar area, related to Carnet very complex, so I'm asking for your concentration. It's really very important projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5781	Before Mr. Šetić speaks, if I may have an explanation there has been an error in the copy of this amendment, so it is actually a sequel, something that is written as a special amendment is just a continuation of this amendment and is under number 339. Defacto is just a continuation of this amendment where an explanation from which items could be found funds for this, for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5782	Please just a moment to focus on this. Yeah. You stuck to the norm and offered a solution. We have one and the other, but I must tell you that we have considered this amendment of yours complexly, which is really complex and we cannot accept it but with the following explanation: so that paragraph a) 6280112 amounts to 6 million kuna relating to the development and application of Internet technology, the Carnet projects, according to a report submitted by Carnet on open contracts for projects in 2003 and 2004, needs to be provided 3 million kuna, which is fully covered by the proposed amount and leaves enough space, i.e. Start new projects. In paragraph 628015, worth 16 million kuna, concerns the inclusion of Carnet network into pan-European academic research networks. According to a report submitted by Carnet, contracts for 2003 and 2004, a contract with Dante, with Jean service from 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004, were concluded at the amount of 14 million 677 914.10 kuna, which is fully covered by the proposed amount. Position K 406669 Carnet, total LK infrastructure of 5 million kuna refers to the purchase of passive and active equipment and software for the backbone and access network Carnet. According to the provided framework programme of work and financial plan of the Carnet Institute for 2004, the cost of equipment and software support for the backbone and access to the network and system support to the institutions of the Member States is 3 and a half million kuna, fully covered by the proposed amount and sufficient space for enlargement and development has been left. Further position K 628022 computer communication infrastructure in public institutes so scientists can use all services and services on the Carnet and Internet network and use information and communication technologies. In their work, they need to be provided with a network connection at the workplace. That position shall finance the design, construction and equipment of local computer networks, public institutes or the establishment of network connections at the workplaces of public institutes. Further position K 628056 computer communication infrastructure in higher schools so teachers and all other high-school employees can use all services and services on the Carnet and Internet network and use information and communication technologies. In their work, they need to be provided with a network connection at the workplace. From that position, the design, construction and equipment of local computer networks, high universities or the establishment of network connections at high-school workplaces is financed. That's an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5783	Thank you very much. Vice-President Mrs. Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5784	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. From this point on, I repeat again in this amendment, and from which items could be downloaded, the amount proposed to be put on the Carnet project, or the entire Carnet programme, which has been reduced by 27%, which has doubled the number of users, but what I still think is more important here than this and what you have said, and from the entire Budget, it seems to double some of the functions now held by the Croatian academic and research network Carnet. So some functions that one institute, which is Carnet, one institution, which Carnet already has, are now being transferred to another institution specially formed national information infrastructure that is not part of Carnet. Since Carnet functions it is not unlike many of the other amendments that were, this is neither for a particular municipality nor for a particular city nor for a particular region, this is indeed for everyone. This is for, of course, teachers, but first row for students. I am asking you colleagues when 66 HDZ deputies have not submitted any single amendment to the opinion that they have nothing to suggest, there is nothing to be asked for, please, that now that you have not sought neither for the cities nor for the municipalities nor for the schools, nor for the gardens for the environment nor for the water, nothing for the future leaders of this country, this is for the highly educated people, for the future leaders of Croatia in one, in what we need, and this is one radical modernisation. This is for them and I beg you when you have not submitted a single amendment to support this one. This is for people who should inherit and be better than us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5785	I thank Mrs. Vice President Pusic. We are voting on two amendments 329 and 339. Right? Who's in favour of this amendment? [[Intruder: Yes.]] Thank you very much. They didn't get the necessary majority. Now, please, Agent Ivan Chehok 333. HSP representative club 331. The Club of HSP Representatives 332, the Club of HSP Representatives 333, the Club of HSP Representatives 334, the Club of Representatives of HS 335, were consummated through 329 and 339. Moving to 336. HNS reps' club PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5786	Yeah. It's about carnet, the development of the information society. For division 080 of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the head of the 45th National Information Infrastructure is defined in two programmes: P1444 Information Infrastructure of Science and Higher Education and P1466 Development of the Information Society. The P1444 programme covers activities related to the field of information science and higher education. The programme also covers the activities of Carnet in accordance with its area of activity. The P1466 programme covers activities related to the development of the information society according to... the Stabilisation and Association Pact Agenda and the change of the programme's name in Carnet, the development of an information society would not be appropriate. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we do not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5787	Thank you very much. ... Madam Vice President Pusic. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on, not understood]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5788	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, this is an attempt to unite in some way this information network institute, or Carnet, that what is mentioned as a project for the development of an information society to unite within the Carnet project, or within the Carnet institution that already exists, so that the academic network can then be developed on the basis of which we already have. I want to draw one more ink, people of academic networks like Carnet aren't political things. Not every party needs to start creating something. Carnet already exists. Let's invest in it to develop in this way that it can. This amendment is a proposal to build on what we already have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5789	I thank Mrs. Vice President Vesni Pusic. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. They've been consummated with this amendment. About what? Just to say that this amendment has been consumed by 337. The club of HSP representatives, and 338 MP Ivan Chehok. I don't know about what?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5790	I would like to give a better explanation for these amendments, although the amendments are different.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5791	I am sorry, but under our current rules, we have consumed these amendments through this amendment by Mrs Pusic, i.e. HNS, PGS, and we cannot go back to these amendments. And what did you want, Mr. Markov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5792	On behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5793	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5794	It's not in the context of the budget, but in the name of the Club, I would ask a question, they're making information that new indictments have arrived from The Hague, because there would be no speculation, but that, above all, the MPs would have the right to accuracy and truth, as well as the public. My question is on behalf of the Club, can anyone responsible, Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister tell us whether it is true and in what context it is? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5795	Mr. Markov, you have requested word out of the agenda. We have no knowledge of any charges. When it does, the Croatian public will be informed in good time. And we are at the point of the budget agenda of the Republic of Croatia for 2004. This is how we consumed earlier in 339, so we consumed 340 through that 329 and 330. Club representatives of HSP and 341. also representatives of the Club. and 342. HSP counseling club. We're going to 343. It's a club of representatives of libre. The Ministry of Health is responsible and declares itself Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Health and Social Welfare, Dr Andrija Hebrang. Here you go. Libra Club 343.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5796	We do not accept Amendment 343, which requires more information funding, because the information programme takes place by three parallel sectors, institutions, HZZO, the Ministry and we want to record the situation first and then go rational to further investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5797	Thank you very much. The club of representatives of LIBRA, Mr. Jozo Radoš, representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5798	Mr. Vice President. First, it should be said that the contract was signed on 12 July 2002 and that, and that contracts with Croatian firms are worth more than 30 million kuna. The question is, what happens if those contracts are broken? But if health information is not achieved this year then, of course, in terms of saving for more rational drug consumption, referring to hospital treatment, referring to sick, prescribing signs, we will certainly lose at least as much money as it costs to inform this year. And of course it will also be to the detriment of health services, which is of course the most important. Therefore, Mr. Minister, I think that in the interest of rational spending on taxpayers' money, and more importantly, quality health services in Croatia should be accepted by this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5799	... He didn't get the necessary majority. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]] The 344th representative of Mrs. Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5800	The amendment is rejected because the requirement for additional financing of the KBC of Rijeka is filled with this, which is 10 million kuna in the section of the Council of Europe two. Well, that should be added to this, and then that's the number that's wanted here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5801	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5802	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that under the co-financing and renewal agreement of medical and not medical equipment for KBC Rijeka, the Ministry of Health and Social Care in this year is obliged to provide 12 million kuna in order to honour that agreement in relation to the estimated 750 thousand kuna, which is just over 6% of the contracted funds, in paragraph 4 000 224 medical and laboratory equipment for K100077 KBC Rijeka activities. There are some new truths in the daily newspaper on the route of the city of Rijeka, the Ministry of Health and Social Care daily, and some new items that I unfortunately do not find in this budget. In fact, Mr. Minister, you explained to me the other day or rather the other night about two o'clock in the morning that the funds allocated to KBC Rijeka are in, you mentioned an item of 10 million kuna from decentralised funds. And today I'm reading in the New List that in code one thousand 351, 10 million kunas from the Council of Europe's loan have been specified. Unfortunately, I couldn't find that item, and as far as I'm reading in the paper, the mayor of Rijeka failed. Furthermore, the proposed reduction for health incentives in the Federation of BiH lies in the fact that the state hospitals in the Republic of Croatia are in a difficult enough situation, so solidarity for the assistance of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the expense of health institutions that must be cared for by the Republic of Croatia, which is also their owner and founder as well as KBC Rijeka, I really find inappropriate. I do not want to put aside the need to help the health of the Federation of BiH, but it is still the task of the budget to ensure the functioning of the institutions that the founding state is. So I'm asking for a vote on my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5803	Sure. Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He wasn't accepted because he didn't get enough votes. IDS representative club 345.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5804	An amendment requesting additional funds for Pula Hospital is hereby rejected. In fact, Pula hospital is financed under an agreement between the Ministry of Health, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the County, totalling 221 million kuna. But this year there's no payment. Therefore, it is in line with that agreement. Although the agreement still needs to be discussed. This year, 3.5 million kuna is planned for projects alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5805	Your Honor, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Yes, exactly, this amendment requires 3 million kunas for the production of project documentation of the General Hospital Pula, corresponding to 8 million kunas for the equipment of homes for the mentally ill adults whom we in Pula call "Villa Maria". Namely, as you yourself noted, an agreement was signed on 6 October 2003 on co-financing of the construction of the General Hospital Pula. Right, the project weighs about 220 million kuna. The project was concluded between the former health minister, Istria County, and the general hospital. The ministry's competent ministry, as most MPs probably know, has accepted 30 per cent of the funding. And we therefore believe that it is necessary to start with the work in 2005 already this year in the state budget for the implementation of the project documentation to accept the amount of 3 million kuna. As for Home for the mentally ill adults "Villa Maria" there is a need for equipment to find an amount of 8 million kuna. I would like to remind you that you, Mr. Vice President, have on several occasions personally sent messages that Pula will receive a general hospital under one roof, and we really ask you to try to secure these symbolic funds in this year's budget already. Unless this argument is agreed to, we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5806	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 346 by Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5807	We reject this amendment because these funds are provided for in the item "islets" where the islands of 10 million kuna are written there is an adjustment of the clinic in Vira and plus that is still foreseen by Ugljan, Solta, Korčula, Mali Losinj, Silba and Krk. So it's already on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5808	I thank you for this information, Mr. Minister. However, if you would be kind enough to say how much these funds are because last year, a former minister approved funds for making project documentation, as you know, there is a project documentation for this new infirmary in Vira.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5809	It is foreseen in this 10 million, project documentation is foreseen. Now, that's what I have to look for. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5810	Then he goes into the polemics. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5811	It's for sure. Take your word for it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5812	Amendment 346 has been withdrawn. Thank you. 347th Representative Mr. Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5813	This amendment requires funding from the Primosten infirmary. Unfortunately, we cannot do so on the basis of Article 8. Health care law from the state budget to finance a county-owned facility, except in the field of public care, which is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5814	Completely, Mr. Vice President, I understand the reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5815	Here you go, Mr. Markov!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5816	I fully understand the reasons why you have explained that you cannot finance or co-finance this primary health care clinic, but it is in nature about the situation in which the municipality is located in another person's facility for which a first-degree and second-degree solution has been made that they must be evicted because it is not about their facility and therefore I think that regardless of the reasons why it is not possible to make that step on the formal side of the project in some way should be accepting this situation as it is and it is not being changed. So, I think we're all supposed to try to do what we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5817	We can do it from decentralised means.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5818	If you think you can help, I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5819	Thank you very much. This amendment has been withdrawn. 348. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5820	This is the amendment again regarding KBC River, so I'm going to do it again once again. For KBC Rijeka, the Ministry of Health is a co-signator of the contract under which the Ministry of Health gives 48 out of 80 million in total and we have deployed them after the following years so that this year 12 million 600 thousand kuna is due, 2 million 600 is in this item and 10 million is in the loan of the Council of Europe two. Here, I'll show you that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5821	Thank you very much. IDS representative club Mrs. Dorotea Pesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5822	So I wanted to say on the trail of your argument that it really wasn't possible to find those 10 million kunas that you claim were planned in the budget because I am really appealing to when the county and the city of 40% of the financial resources were reserved for even though they have modest incomes as units of local self-government to improve health care in the KBC of Rijeka. We know it's pretty bad, the ceilings are going down and it's really in a derivative state, and I'd really like you to show us where that 10 million kuna is for KBC River.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5823	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 349. It's a club of representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5824	Again the same KBC Rijeka and I repeat again in the Council of Europe's 10 million kuna for this year and now I will add for the next year 20 million 500 thousand kuna and for the next 21 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5825	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Radosh!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5826	This explanation of Mr. Minister, of course, will be followed because these 10 million kunas are not here in the budget. This means that the state will settle its part of 12 million kuna for this year because the city and the county have secured money with their budgets but it should be said that the city of Rijeka and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has provided room for the construction of a new clinical hospital centre in Rijeka. The idea project has been completed, the development of a major project that will need to be allocated to around 5 million kuna, and should increase the item for the construction of the Rijeka Clinical Hospital Centre for that part of the money. I therefore ask either of course to accept this additional amendment or to vote on my proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5827	Are you staying with you, Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5828	Yeah, I'm staying with it for one add-on, that for the next year it's supposed to be 13 million 800 grand for the next 13 million... It's the dynamics of a contracted loan and there's no need to disrupt it because it ensures the dynamics of construction by contract. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5829	Mr. Representative, will you vote or withdraw?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5830	Let him vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5831	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He's not accepted. Representative Željka Antunović, 350th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5832	The amendment 350 refers to KBC Zagreb and Virovitica. There is an agreement for Virovitica, which is why the amendment is rejected because there is an agreement with the county under which the Ministry of Health has assumed a 50% total loan commitment and 4mm of 200 000 is coming in dynamics this year and that is foreseen in the agreement. I'm KBC Zagreb, I think I've already mentioned it. KBC Zagreb has the biggest credit in Croatian health history 750 million kuna and we thought that this was a burden enough for this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5833	Thank you. Ms. Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5834	Mr. Secretary doesn't explain my amendment at all. My amendment to KBC Zagreb was about erasing 27 thousand kunas, which are about one gross salary of Mr. Minister and which are intended for the largest Croatian hospital as investments for the whole year. Except for the investment you're talking about, there's no speech because it's starting to pay off in 2008. As for Virovitica, what is planned and covered concerns an ongoing investment, however, the agreement you mention is not covered by new funds and therefore the development of health care in an old, very high-quality and important hospital for the whole of Slavonia will stop and prevent the provision of better quality health care to citizens. And let me add, once I've already asked to delete it, it means no addition of funds but erasure, I did it because the budget is a very serious document and such ridiculous items must not be in there and it simply spoils the reputation of the Republic of Croatia if someone from abroad is looking at that budget. And I'm sure 700 doctors of the largest Croatian hospital will be able to extract some 30 kuna donations and cover what I'm asking to delete from the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5835	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He's not accepted. 351st representative Mr. Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5836	Here again we have KBC Zagreb with these 27 thousand kunas which we cannot erase because our legal obligation is to pay us off this year and we also have the Mercury Clinical Hospital. I have to say, it's a hospital that's been blacklisted, and for four years, it hasn't had a single investment, not a single investment. We are in this budget trying to keep all agreed projects. And where there was a blacklist there we try to add to this budget. That's why he refuses.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5837	Thank you very much. Mr. Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5838	There are two hospitals. Big KBC, 1600 beds, five times smaller than Mercury 300 beds. The Minister of Health of this great hospital of 1600 refurbishing and equipment beds predicts 27 thousand kunas. The smaller one, five times less than 11 million and 500 thousand kuna. There's a difference between these two hospitals, not just in size. The important difference is that it is from this smaller hospital, the health minister is coming from Mercury Hospital and will probably return to it after the term of office. The Minister of Health's proposal pleases the hospital from which it comes. But there's something worse than that. It is the punishment of KBC Zagreb, the largest hospital in Croatia. Which, for equipment, for supply, for refurbishing equipment, for patients, they use that equipment, provides only 27 thousand 500 kuna. The loan thing has nothing to do with it. Why is this hospital being punished? Because he's got a able-bodied administration that's taken out a loan. The hospital took out a loan. And they're going to pay back that hospital loan, no kuna goes out of the budget, no kuna, the government gives a guarantee. She guaranteed it because the banks were looking for a guarantee. And why did they ask for a guarantee? So probably fearing that a minister in the Croatian government can happen to make a decision to stop those commercial parts of that investment that allow credit to be paid off. These 27 thousand kunas mean aggression, attack on the largest hospital in Croatia. So the question of how she'll be doing business next year. Therefore, I demand a vote. Minister, Minister, I call upon you, disavowed all this which I have said, disprove, disprove, disprove, deny that it is a matter of favoration and, on the other hand, of remandism and accept my amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5839	Mr. Representative, we have no choice but to put your amendment to the vote. So I suggest you vote. Here you go. Who's in? He did not receive the required majority and did not pass this amendment I don't know what you're calling about, Mrs. Antunovic. It's out on behalf of who? [[Intruder: Željka Antunović responded.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5840	I'm reporting on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5841	So say it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5842	Given that this moment, through the explanation of Minister Hebrang, there was a precedent here, I am asking you to take a short break for the club's consultation. It'll take 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5843	Whenever the clubs ask, our old and good practice, 10 minutes break, we come back here 25 to 8. Representatives and advocates continue the session we have exceeded six minutes of time. But here's while we get together, we can move on. The word was asked for a break on behalf of the SDP club, representative Mrs Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go, Madam Representative. Mr. Minister, while the MP goes on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5845	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for giving me the pay phone. Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm sorry that this break coincided with the fact that we've just received one piece of information from the media about the new charges. But my request for a club consult wasn't about that. It's like I said, it's because of a precedent that just happened after this pay phone. In the Parliament, we have indeed heard everything through these few segments of an independent Croatian state. There have been different political discussions, different political lunches or praises. There were different demagogues. But so far after this pay phone, at least as far as I know, no one has ever told conscious lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5846	I ask you, ma'am, that you do not use such difficult words in general, so here I am praying that in accordance with good customs here you still pay attention to the spoken word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5847	Well, it's been very hard for me to say these words, so allow me to prove to you quite concretely and to prove to you that unfortunately I haven't told a lie to a pure and easy to prove truth. During the debate on the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004, no more than four times was said for the clinical hospital of Mercury in Zagreb in the previous period, thinking of investments was not allocated. The first time was done by the finance minister, Mr. Schucker, later explained to me after we corrected him and the unofficial conversation in the hallway that he did it based on information that was verified from the Ministry of Health. The second time was done by the Minister of Health and Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Hebrang, we also tried to correct that wrong allegation here. However, the repeated health minister killed in his exposé, which lasted for ten minutes to correct the false allegations and reiterated for a third time that during the previous period for the General Hospital, Mercury was not singled out any investment interest. Today, just before, for the fourth time, the same untruth was spoken. It was ruled out after it could be double-checked that the claim that was repeatedly corrected in this House was indeed not correct. But when it's over and over again, I'm more than sure because it's been a health minister to a doctor who's worked in that hospital for many years, and he knows very well what he's investing in or not investing in, what his problems are and her successes as well. When the repeater repeats it then unfortunately I can't characterize it, but rather as I said at the very beginning, and I called it a dangerous precedent that we want to stop right after it happened the first time. So that never again would happen. Because it's a very dangerous precedent. Dangerous because they deceive and misinformed representatives in this high House, as well as Croatian publicity is being trained and we may be led to a wrong vote on some important items of the state budget. I also have phonograms here, phonograms from the previous budget debate from last week. He didn't just stop on political charges over these alleged investments and not detachment to Mercury General Hospital. He's gone on. He accused in those denials of correcting incorrect allegations his own hospital that it had illegally entered into an investment for transplant departments in the hospital itself. In this way he falsely denunciated his colleagues who precisely because of the investments that took place achieved the world’s outstanding values. And if my claims were true, I would show you respected colleagues because I am firmly convinced that the Minister of Health and Vice-President of the Government knows it better than I do. Last year, I'm only talking about last year, in 2003 at Mercury Clinical Hospital, two million kunas from the state budget from the health ministry. That was reported by the health ministry at Mercury Clinical Hospital. I'm sure I've been informed of that and her expert council that she's been sitting in or at least Minister Hebrang's sitting in. But that wasn't all. In that same year 2003, the decision of the Board of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute was issued here by a million and 413 thousand kunas to co-finance the national transplant centre of Az, which was said to have been unlawfully invested from regular means of invoices for services by the Merkur Clinical Hospital. Let's move on. In that same year 2003 at Mercury Clinical Hospital from the position of decentralised funds also covered by the decision of the Bar on Global Exclusion in this National Assembly, it was allocated to the Mercur Clinical Hospital 4 and a half million kuna. I hope you've managed to add up, and I hope I've been able to prove to you these facts that our intervention wasn't for no reason. I, too, kindly pray first of all to the people who chair this Croatian National Assembly. I am asking the President of the Government who, not from this pay phone, but we have publicly warned that incorrect information from the Ministry of Health is spreading from the Ministry of Health, which brings unrest to the health system as well as among our citizens. Which I can verify and prove. And that it just goes beyond all measures and boundaries. However, the untruths spoken from this pay phone seem to me to be the crown of all that we hear from the Ministry of Health for three months and all are, or almost all the delusions, untruths, misinformation, and in the end, don't blame me on what I'm going to tell another lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5848	I give you a reminder to repeat the words that I have said before, I have not given you my word. You're done. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5849	It's an honor to receive this warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5850	Here you go, and this assembly is not a courtroom or anyone who can take a position as a state attorney. This is a high House of Representatives, this is the House of Representatives and Parliamentary House, and it is where customs are to rule in connection with that function of Croatians, as the state lady said. Not the state's, because it's changed, it's the Parliament. There you go, sir. You're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5851	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5852	Injury of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5853	209th and 213th. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament I sign everything you have said, but I would ask you and those who chair and sit in your seat to have the same archaic towards the representatives of a party opposition or position and introduction. Because the other day at this session, a specific representative of Stazic was offended, no one reacted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5854	Mr. Representative, this session is being conducted objectively here. I told Mrs. Antunovic's warning, first I warned her not to use words that do not belong to this House, but she eventually used that word again, and that's why she got the warning. That's how you'd get every MP after I verbally warned him. And now there's a correction to Mr. Vice President Milinovic's incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5855	Dear Vice President, Honored Representative Antunovic. I could use words as difficult as you used them, but let me at least say that insufficiently known functioning, i.e. financing of the health system when, and you were the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of social activities if I'm not mistaken, when the decentralised funds that are county funds are counted in the separation from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5856	Thank you very much. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health Prof. Dr. Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5857	Thank you very much. I'm sad to be offended, but Mrs. Antunovic makes me a habit. You can't insult me to the honored MPs, because I'm sticking to what's important is not what he says, but who's saying. Well, I said don't get mad. I said I'm not offended.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5858	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5859	And now, again, Dr. Milinovic has already taken half my answer. Of course, the decentralised funds do not fall within the scope of the Croatian Parliament's decision but local administrations, and if HZZO paid 1.7 million kuna to KB Mercury which it did not, then he did a criminal act because according to the Health Insurance Act HZZO must not invest, he can only pay bills for the health service performed. So much for laws. I'd like to say two more words about a loan that's mentioned so much, and I need to explain why we're refusing to do so. The credit of KBC Rebro is an illegal credit based on an audit carried out by violating five legal provisions. The first thing that a credit cannot take is a health institution and the government cannot be a guarantee because the government can be the basis of the Budget Act only guarantees the economic operator. Second, at the time of the guarantee, the entity must not be in debt, and it was 66 million kuna. The third thing KBC Rebro can't invest in non-profit, pardon... profit content because then any director could finance in the casino. It's forbidden in the social security system. That's why we condemn that loan, but we accept it because we respect the rule of law and all the signed contracts. Thank you very much. We refuse the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5860	Thank you very much. But the breach of the Rules of Procedure was reported by MP Željka Antunović, so we'll give it to her. Here you go, Mrs. Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5861	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 209 You've hurt the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vice President, because you've allowed the Minister to speak completely outside the subject. Neither the amendments nor the comments in this section about KBC Zagreb about what I was talking about on behalf of the club. I did not mention KBC Zagreb in one word, and the minister was given the opportunity to blow something completely off the table and completely unauthorized.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5862	Madam representative, I didn't know what you were going to talk about when you asked for a 10-minute break on behalf of the club, so you brought things out here by your own means because you were saying what you were saying. Would it be democratic and business if the minister who has been apostropheeded here at such difficult qualifications had not been given the opportunity to respond. Are you contesting Mr. Hebrang's word in this House except that the amendments were not discussed here but that you interrupted the debate on the amendments and here you spoke for the club. If you had continued with the amendments Mr. Hebrang would not have gotten the word twice, and as you exclusively received the word then the Minister of Health, Mr. Hebrang, also received the word. Can we continue with the amendments? What's this about, ma'am?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5863	You'll let me talk to you. I did not challenge Minister Hebrang...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5864	You can't answer me. You can't give me an article in this Rules of Procedure you can't answer what I'm like chairing these sessions said and please, Madam MPs, to sit down afterwards, and I'll give you my word for hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mrs. Antunovic has a plate again for breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5865	Again, you personally injured Article 209 because during the presentation of Minister Hebrang, I answered with a tile to correct the incorrect allegations and you did not give me your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5866	I gave it to you. First I have to give for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then you re-applyed for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I haven't had a chance to give you a chance to correct the incorrect allegations. You have another time...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5867	Thank you. Then you will now give me the word for correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5868	Of course, if you've abused the Rules of Procedure a second time. Here's to correcting the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5869	I am correcting the incorrect allegations both Minister Hebrang and Vice-President Milinovic, because I have never once said that the allocation of funds, decentralised funds is decided by this Assembly, but that the global sizes that go in the direction of decentralisation are decided and received information from this Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5870	Thank you very much. We're continuing with the amendments. Thanks for the warmed up little atmosphere, but in this winter's good, maybe it's a good thing we're a little warmed up. Coming through, we voted 351 right. If we're not, let's do it again. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't pass, he didn't get enough votes. 352 MPs Marin Jurjevic and Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5871	352 amendments The government refuses because all the requirements of the Upgrade and Reconstruction Agreement of KB Split amounting to 71 million kuna as well as KBC Rijeka have been met. In the Council of Europe, there is an agreement under which the Ministry of Health of 71 million kuna is taking on three years 36.6 million kuna. This year it is planned and put into the budget of 7 million and 200 plus million and 100 from the Council of Europe, which is 8 million and 300. Next year, there are other wars.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5872	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Jurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5873	Mr. Minister, I don't think it's doubtful that you'll agree when we assess the importance of the hospital in Split. It's a hospital that's gravitating really a huge number of people, and here's your party colleagues who are doctors in that hospital who will know it better than I do, but almost half a million, if we add up what the citizens of Croatia, what the citizens of the Federation of BIH who are also treated in those hospitals, in that hospital, not to speak during the war, etc. And since this really hospital may have received, in fact it is less than other hospitals in Croatia, I mean when compared to all hospitals, even in this period before. Indeed, the purpose of this amendment was to recognise that these funds that you mentioned were insufficient in order to build, adapt and equip kitchens, and above all, what we are most interested in, which is a question of motherhood and neonatology. It's the construction of gynecology. This is the whole purpose of this amendment is to help to make it, i.e. to make it happen, to implement this project. Respecting that he really is sometimes in humans and the relationship to that hospital has reproduced a negative, one negative relationship and awakened unnecessary animosities between the center and the periphery. I'd, yeah, vote though, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5874	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. 353 MPs, Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5875	Amendment 353 to the government's refusal. It refers to an investment in the General Hospital of Varazdin, which was set by an agreement between the Ministry of Health and County at the height of HRK 36.8 million, and refers to a loan from the Hypo Bank that has not been realised. So the Ministry can't even start paying off its share. When it is realised, we will include it, keeping the laws of the Croatian state in our budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5876	My colleague, Korenik, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5877	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to say that the Varazdin General Hospital is the largest hospital in northwestern Croatia, the pavilion type and that it only engravings from the Varazdin County over 200,000 citizens. I must stress that this part that is required to enter the budget, so it's about the kitchen, that the installations and everything are going on, that the Varazdin County is already last and this year, following the most innovative policy and previous and these governments are going to invest 25 million kuna plus VAT for the adaptation of the gynaecological department and simply there are no funds needed to make this investment for which all the documentation has been prepared and completed. And I also have to point out that the existing equipment, so the X-rays and the angiographs have gone on and on, and I just don't understand how that's going to be financed this year, if not this one. That is why and because of the public, I am only asking perhaps deciding information whether the agreement will be respected, especially because, in the context of this investment that Mr. Minister mentioned, it is also about the adaptation of a surgical department that is extremely important. And I would, however, like to ask the vote, that is to say, to show this House of the High on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5878	Who is in favour of this amendment to the legislator? Thank you very much. The amendment didn't go through. 354 amendments to Mr. Joseph Vresk's representative. Points 1 and 2 of the amendments have been decided by the vote in the previous amendment. There's only this point 3 left. Home to the elderly and the powerless people of Varazdin, the rehabilitation of the House. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5879	The first two, as the president said, were resolved by a past explanation, and the House for Elderly and Powerless Persons in Varazdin, the ministry did not receive a request for reconstruction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5880	Comrade Vresk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5881	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Minister, the ministry should have received such a request, and besides, I have one more thing to say. You can see for yourself that in the description of the amendment, or in the explanation of the amendments, it literally states that the roof of the House for Old and Powerless Persons is sneezing. You can only imagine what it looks like when people of that age have to live in a place that literally rains. I'm asking you to check again if the request has really been received. I don't agree with the argument, and I want a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5882	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Here you go. Thanks, he didn't get the votes he needed. 355, MPs Marija Lugarić and Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5883	The amendment concerns the financing of the hospital in Bjelovar, based on Article 8. The health care law of the Ministry of Health must not invest from the budget in a county hospital. It is our proposal to accept this amendment when we discuss the distribution of decentralised funds with the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5884	Dear Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5885	Yeah, well, here it seems again to me to be slightly different interpretations of laws when referring to counties in the second constituency. Because some, some hospitals generally get or through the county. So he might as well be a transfer... County, but I think you really need to invest in a general hospital in Bjelovar because this is about projects that exist. [[You don't understand.]] There are expedient building permits, and doctors work in very difficult conditions and patients often have to go from one pavilion to another because of dislocated facilities. Not to mention the kitchen that was probably from the time Maria Teresa founded Bjelovar, so they cooked there for the regiment that was moved from Koprivnica. I would kindly ask that certainly this if you can't support it, but to put it in the county transfer and that this year at least allow the county to have besides decentralised funds that will receive the basis of 2.6% of the decentralised income, to get the opportunity to invest in the hospital because it is indeed a great need to invest in the General Hospital Bjelovar. Under these conditions, I withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5886	Okay, thanks. Amendment withdrawn. 356, Madam Representative Dragica Zgreben, Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5887	This amendment refers to an investment in the General Hospital of Čakovec in which the Ministry of Health should also not be based on Article 8. The Health Protection Act is to invest, but since the contract is signed, we will, of course, respect it and include wars according to the dynamics of that contract. This year, the contract is worth only 740 thousand kuna for the cost of the loan. It's under the Health Ministry's obligation treaty, and we've included that, and all the other years we've predicted. For example, next year 2.3 million, then 5.9, etc. So, according to the contract, we'll honor the end of the funding of the Chakovec Hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5888	Dear representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5889	Thank you, Mr. President. So I have to say that my Međimurians have finally come into a position to have better conditions of treatment in the next few years, given the addition of pavilions to our hospital. In 96 years, Mr. Hebrang, I've described to you the state of that hospital, and you've seen it, and when you talk about blacklists, I could say that this hospital was blacklisted, because in the period from 96 to 2000, it was only 80,000 kuna for investment. The County has provided the basic equipment with incredible efforts and large loans, and we expect and expect that the state must also help this hospital. If you say that is enough funds, we also went to colleagues Lesar and Pavlic from the fact that 4 million kunas were secured in the 2003 budget, but for certain reasons the investment started only at the end of 2003. We expected it to be the number needed for the first year. I'll still ask to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5890	Thank you. Who's for this amendment, number 356, Mrs. Zgrebec? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. This consumed an identical amendment of 357 representatives of Lesar. Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5891	I'm not gonna ask for a break. Today is the sixth time you told me you and those who ran the session, that the amendment was consummated. This amendment of mine would be at Chakovec Hospital consummated if the minister had accepted and given us $4 million, he was rejected, not consummated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5892	Look, fellow Lesar, according to the Rules of Procedure, if the amendment is identical and it has been rejected or accepted, then no vote on such an amendment is taken. You have the same amendment exactly the same, exactly as it was from Mrs. Zgrebec. 358th Honored Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5893	The amendment applies again to the General Hospital of Čakovec, I can say again we reject the amendment but we respect the signed agreement and the dynamics of our obligations, Mr. Lesar knows what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5894	Here you go, fellow Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5895	I am staying with this amendment, so I am asking for 5 million kunas because I believe that the state must be more involved in this project, well in the project this very year, because this way a greater burden would go towards the county, so because the loan would be more expensive, therefore, I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5896	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 359th Representatives Željko Pecek, Ljubica Lalic and Bozidar Pankretić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5897	Amendment 359 refers to the General Hospital Virovitica investment that is under way and according to the contractual obligation this year we receive 4 million kuna and 200 thousand kuna, and we have included them so much of our obligation and we cannot go through the contract and therefore we must reject this amendment even though it is also against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5898	Here you go, buddy Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5899	Thank you very much. I don't know if the Treaty is illegal or not, but I'm sure the Virovitic County wants to achieve health standards like that around it. I also cannot comment too much on these 4 million and 200 thousand kunas because they refer to projects that started last year and will only be paid in this, million and 200 thousand kunas related to the implementation of projects that were envisaged by an agreement signed last year between the ministry and the county. I note that the county or general hospital has secured space, land, infrastructure, and that unfortunately we will remain in a black hole in the next year unless it starts with the realisation of the agreement. The facilities in which the activity takes place are over 100 years old, and they are obviously too old and should begin to implement the agreement, and I would not like that hospital to be blacklisted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5900	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Amendment 360, MP Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5901	The government rejects the amendment because the Traumatological clinic is involved with a million 600 thousand as seen in our Budget Proposal, but it is now under way that 4 million kuna investment for spiral CTs that we will naturally have to take over and that is why we reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5902	I'm a colleague of Lecko's. He's not in the hall, we vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 361st MPs Marin Jurjevic and Mrs Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5903	We refuse for the same reason as before when there was an amendment to Mercury Clinical Hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5904	It's actually the same amendment but I don't think I know how it appeared but basically it's my amendment to which I've already received my answer and where the vote has been made, asking more for the Split hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5905	So it's withdrawn because it's consummated?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5906	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5907	Okay, thank you very much. 362. Representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5908	Amendment 362. refers to the General Hospital of Pula where we said that the signed agreement of 221 million and the Ministry of Health should take over 66 million from it, the loan is at 10 years and we will put our war into the budget when it comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5909	Here you go, buddy Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5910	I thank Minister Hebrang. The main explanation was given by my colleague Caine, and I have yet to express my satisfaction that the Government of Ivica Racana saw the need to build a new hospital in Pula for the citizens of Pula and Istria and their numerous guests, because it simply could not be repaired anymore and it was wise to go to the construction of a new hospital and according to a signed agreement to achieve this first step would require a greater amount for the project documentation this year and therefore ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5911	Thank you. Who's for this amendment please? Thank you, it's not accepted. 363. Representatives Mato Gavran and Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5912	363. The government refuses because the funds for Nova Gradiška are not foreseen by the contract and we recommend that we work together to finance this part from decentralised funds. We'll support that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5913	Thank you. Mato Raven, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5914	I'm pleased to hear from Mr. Minister here's your recommendation, to clarify this is an object on the Strmac, so a former special hospital for pulmonary diseases owned by the Novogradska Hospital. The hospital was active until the Homeland War, after the Homeland War was out of operation, for one time the Croatian Army used it, the facilities after leaving the Croatian Army failed and the burden of maintaining a cold drive is at the Novogradska hospital which itself does not have enough resources. I'm not sure we'll be able to solve this hospital and the hospital in Brod but also the hospital in Nova Gradišca, which we also went with the amendment. I once again ask for understanding, our plan is to solve a few problems with one move. According to the analysis of the Social Care Centre of Brod-Posavina County about 190 elderly mentally ill persons is in need of home accommodation, this facility is ideally said for such purposes, so for these reasons we have also proposed to the Ministry of Health and Social Care to invest from these 4.5 million kunas that would solve the problem permanently and care for both older and powerless but also solved the problem which the Novogradska hospital and neither the Brod-Posavina County can solve, I pray for understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5915	The supplement, while time runs out, is that it is difficult to discuss decentralised funds because it is an autonomous right to decide on these means by local self-government units and in this respect there is a problem of how to agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5916	Thank you very much. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. I'm sure he didn't get the necessary majority. 364. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5917	The amendment also refers to the New City I must say that for the first time I have heard of this combination such a proposal has not arrived that this second part, the second object, is being adapted, we have now discussed the adaptation of surgery and internally at the New Town hospital and we have said here to support decentralised funds, so I must refuse this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5918	Excuse me, colleague Raven, this is the HSS Club, Ljubice Lalic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5919	Anyway, since I have something different information, I'm very surprised, Mr. Minister, that you're refusing the amendment, because the other day we spoke to the two of us on the Health Committee, and that was after the report, and you told me that you provided two million kunas for the hospital in Novi Gradiška last night. I explained to you at the time, and now it explains that it was a hospital that suffered terribly during the Homeland War, that war damage was not an elimination, that surgery was destroyed, that nothing had been filed in that hospital since the year 53 when it was built, that it was located on the highway on a section where heavy accidents occur and a large number of injured persons being placed in that hospital, you as a doctor know what that means. And now I'm really surprised because as a member of the Legislative Committee, you told me that it was secured by two million and three hundred, it seems to me that nothing would be said now. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5920	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Next is 365, but it's completely identical. the previous amendment is not to be voted on. [[Intruder: Yes.]] 366th Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5921	It's the same general hospital in Pula, an explanation as I gave under the 345th amendment. So we accept the loan even though I point out it's illegal, but due to the sequence of legal contracts, we will accept it and give our contribution to the new hospital that way. [[/Intruder: What is illegal?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5922	Comrade Caine, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5923	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, in this amendment, 345. The IDS Club, which was almost identical with the amendment of 362. Mr. Peru, we have asked from, providing adequate means to start building the General Hospital Pula more precisely to find the means to start carrying out the project documentation. In this amendment, Pula General Hospital is required to allocate certain equipment supplies. What I want to appeal to on this occasion, let's not let the gentlemen stop the construction of a general hospital in Pula. I also want to say that for this year 2004, in the State budget for 39 hundred cities that the municipality of the county of Istria is provided with only 28 million kuna. I would also like to remind Mr Hebrang that on several occasions he himself has stated that the General Hospital of Pula will be placed under one roof and so much I ask that even at the price of reviewing the contracts is not stopped something that is of vital interest both for the people of Istria and for many who can find themselves in an unwanted situation when staying in the summer months in that space. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5924	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 367, also Agent Caine.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5925	The 367th amendment refers to an investment in Umag. Unfortunately, under the current Health Protection Act and Article 8 here I am again, we must not invest in a county hospital or in an institution whose founding office is a county unless it is in the field of special state care or another exception is an elemental accident and we must reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5926	Here you go, pal Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5927	Yeah. This is about a request if it is possible to provide only one million kuna for the purchase of equipment at Pula General Hospital. I am not asking for a vote in this amendment, and that is why I want to make my modest contribution to shortening this grumbling about not adopting the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5928	Thank you. I find Amendment 368 withdrawn. The 369th Amendment also includes Agent Caine.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5929	The 369th amendment refers to an investment in the Lovran orthopedic clinic. We predicted this investment in emergency intervention items. It's paragraph 618218. That's why we reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5930	Here you go, pal Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5931	Yeah. It's about providing certain funds for the Department of orthopedics clinic in Lovran. I'm satisfied with this explanation. I therefore withdraw the amendment, but I would like to remind the President of the Parliament that the amendment has been skipped under regular number 368, where we propose that certain items be provided more precisely for the purchase of equipment in the wave of therapy in Opatija.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5932	Thank you very much. There's been a mistake. First, it's about Amendment 368, which refers to the wave of therapy of Opatija. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5933	This amendment must also be rejected with the same explanation as 367. It is an establishment whose founder is a county and we must not invest in it from the budget on the basis of Article 8. The health care law until we propose an amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5934	My colleague Cain, you've withdrawn this amendment, haven't you?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5935	No, the last 367, but I'm not asking for a vote for 368.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5936	Thank you. And that amendment was withdrawn. 369nd colleague Cain?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5937	Yeah, yeah. I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5938	That's what he explained, withdrawn. 370s, too, from Mr. Caine.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5939	It's the same explanation again. It is an institution whose founder is the county and we must not invest in the budget in it. This Regulation shall
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5940	A colleague of Caine's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5941	Yes, there are funds requested for a hospital in Rovinj, but I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5942	Thank you. 370th Retired. In 371, also Agent Caine.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5943	This is about investing in Cantrida Children's Hospital in Rijeka. For KBC Rijeka we have in the Council of Europe for this year 10 million kuna. I can't exactly say for what locality right now. It depends on the plans made in Rijeka.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5944	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5945	Thank you. 371th Retired. 372. It's a club of representatives of Libra.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5946	The 372nd amendment refers to an investment in the management of hospital waste in the health care sector. I must say that this year we have provided for this item 2 million 300 thousand kunas in order to call a concession for waste management in Croatian hospitals. It's thought of infectious waste and toxic waste, so we reject this larger item because we don't think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5947	You can have a colleague of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5948	Well, Mr. Secretary says they only predicted money to call the competition. Otherwise, he needs to know that the competition was called, so the new administration of the ministry annulled him. I guess the reason again is that he was against the law. That's what Mr. Hebrang's arguments are when he changes something, but still some of it, as he said earlier, continues to do so, then he acts against the law. But what is important is that these 2 million and 300 will not be enough except perhaps to call a competition because health care or waste is actually a more and more important medical, environmental, and social problem. For the quality of waste management in the current capacities and facilities of the state or medical institutions, it takes tens of millions of kunas, but because of the importance of this issue, it certainly takes another ten million kunas to find new models of waste disposal because it is becoming a difficult and difficult problem because almost no Croatian hospital of course Mr. Minister knows this, there is no question of dealing with hazardous medical waste properly. It is an urgent matter, and therefore we believe that the money provided for in the Ministry of 2 million and 300,000 kuna will not be enough for a quality solution to this problem and I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5949	Thank you. Please, who's in favor of this amendment? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. 373rd representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5950	The amendment refers to an increase in the subject matter of the Croatian Institute of Public Health. It's an institution that operates on an income principle. She earns for her business and the Ministry of Health is carrying only part of their expenditures on the basis of the contract, and this year the contract is precisely at the sum of 10 million that we mentioned. That's why we reject this amendment to increase this amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5951	Representative Lugaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5952	Dear Mr. Minister, even though it doesn't seem here at first glance, it's about the implementation of the National Strategy to fight drug abuse and the insurance of 5 million kunas for drug programmes. In the light of the latest amendments and additions to the Law on the control of drug abuse, Article 13. The Croatian Institute of Public Health takes over the work of the Croatian Institute for Prevention of Dependence, and Articles 14 and 15 of the same law determines how to finance county and city centres to fight addiction. Today these prevention centers and outside hospital treatment addiction have 15, they have revived and have contact with thousands of addicts. The work of these centres is not adequately monitored by financial support, especially in the employment of professional staff. There are several illogicalities here. The state budget, for example, provides 10 million kuna for the fight against HIV, and the currently timed HIV epidemic bomb is an addictive population. On the other hand, some items that may act preventively in the fight against drugs, such as the prevention of alcoholism in young people, provide 200 thousand kuna. In fact, I believe that because of the speed of the budget, there was actually a slight, because there was a change in the law. So I would also ask MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament to support this amendment, because the Croatian Parliament must define its relationship with the national strategy, because otherwise we turn out to be ridiculous. Thank you very much. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5953	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 374. Representatives Marin Jurjevic, Dragica Zgrebec, Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5954	We refuse this amendment because we have a request for Korčula and continue to finance an institution called the House of Mentally Sick Adults, and we already have 2 million kunas in that item, and that is the only requirement and our obligation that we have included and therefore we reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5955	Representative Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5956	This is about the Korčula Social Care Center. The request is for, I mean, only 400,000 kuna. It is about the Centre for Social Care, which covers not only the island of Korčula, but the peninsula of Peljesac, and Lastova. So if you take Lastovo as an island that may be the hardest to reach the inhabited island on the Croatian Adriatic. If you take the importance of Korčula, the size of Peljesac, then it is really about one important thing, about what the existing Centre for Social Care is doing in inadequate spaces. Therefore, in agreement with the ministry in charge, they came up with the best solution, and the town of Korčula agreed to build a new business space within the existing retirement home. These 400 grand we're looking for in 2004 would actually serve to make technical documentation, to get the necessary permits. It's about the island, the two islands and our Peljesac, and I really think that maybe we should have an understanding, that it's not about an excessive amount of money, and I really don't want to repeat how ready we are to talk about islands before we get on the subject of the budget. Here's what I'm asking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5957	Who's in favor of this amendment, please? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The amendment to the next 375 was voted in Amendment 354. 376th Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5958	The amendment refers to the Center for Social Care Čakovec and here we have foreseen for this year 300 thousand kuna, as far as our budgets are concerned, enough for this business facility for this year. That's why we refuse this increase, it's the difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5959	Comrade Lesar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5960	... Mr. Secretary, I haven't seen the 300 grand you just mentioned. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why I've submitted the amendment. But if you'll excuse me, it might be hidden somewhere. If you please, it is probably one of the most difficult conditions of the Centre for Social Care because there is no space, all municipalities and cities are ready to give the entire building and their co-owner parts to the state without any compensation, for property relations. The county is ready to move out two institutions that do not fall into social care to get a bigger space, and indeed people in the center need it. It is likely that the building was built by former Međimurje Count and Mary Teresa, which is why it is really necessary to operate in the area. Now, if all these arguments are not ministers enough. I beg you, until now all my amendments have been either rejected or consumed. Give me a birthday present today, so accept that, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5961	Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5962	We can't accept it, because we've predicted 300 grand and we can't go beyond that amount for this year. But that'll be enough, I assure you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5963	The vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5964	Look, I'm asking for money, not a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5965	Thank you very much and happy birthday. The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 377 has already been approved in technical content with Amendment 374. Amendment 378. Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5966	We actually have a few items in this amendment and they're all included in the budget, but slightly less than you asked for. So maybe I should just say it again for St. Peter's. Ana in Vinkovci is scheduled according to the budget for this year's first war, the second year of the second war. That's how the contract was made. I can't get over it. In Osijek there is an adjustment of the carpentry this year, in the Zagreb Children's House, the new Laduc facility, it was probably also for the Karlovac reconstruction of the roof and facade. and finally for Kaštel Luksic reconstruction according to the pre-calculation for this year. So we've accepted, that is, all of this involved, but with slightly smaller amounts than they've calculated that they're enough for this year. That's why I'm forced to refuse the amendment then.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5967	Comrade Opaci, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5968	Mr. Minister, I was hoping that you would still increase some of your men's funds for these children's homes. Because these funds are absolutely insufficient especially in those homes, such as the House for Children in Slavonski Brod, which should be used to adapt the reconstruction of sanitary nodes, buy an apartment and equip the apartment, so for deinstitutionalization. In fact, it is that I do not know how much you know, these children who are housed in homes often welcome their adulthood up to 18 years of age, after which they really go under the clear sky. So they're kids who don't have families, they don't have a place to take care of and go to the street. What we must do, and that is to help make sure that as many apartments where these children could be taken care of for at least some period, so they can't stay there very long, they can remain a limited perimeter. That's why these funds are absolutely insufficient. The budget still had enough resources spent as about half a billion on travel. and I think that some of these funds could be taken and added to some homes that they have, which with these means won't be able to do everything they planned and what they needed. Those children are burdened enough by living and growing up in homes for children without parental love. So let us at least do that and help them to live in those homes when they have to live in some decent conditions. Thank you very much, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5969	Please. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 379 MPs Mato Gavran and Mrs Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5970	It refers again to the House of Children Slavonski Brod according to the request of 500 thousand kuna is accepted, I really am not guilty if it is not enough, it was such a request and therefore I must refuse this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5971	Here you go, fellow Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5972	Thank you very much. Well, here I think Milanka's colleague said best about this house. I once again kindly ask you, Mr. Minister, to find a chance to buy at least one apartment for these children this year. I think we all have children, and I'm going to say that I'm particularly emotionally attached here to both these young people and to this home. In fact, this year, a young man and two girls have to leave home by law school because they're finishing school. They don't have a chance to go back anywhere. They don't have families. The only alternative is the street. The town of Brod and the Brod-Posavina County have no money to buy an apartment with all their efforts. I think here's solidarity doing so much space in the state budget that it can be increased if not by a million and a half as much as our request has been, so at least so much that two apartments can be bought for these two young people or three young people. So I'm asking for an understanding or a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5973	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. The amendment didn't get the required majority. 380th Representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5974	This is about home for the mentally ill "Villa Maria" in Pula, completion of construction of the facility. According to the dynamics we got 3.5 million kuna is for this year and we've predicted so much and by contract it will have to be enough or so enough, and then we refuse to increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5975	Hey, buddy Peru, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5976	This is an object that is building together on the basis of a signed agreement signed by the Government of Ivica Racan with the city of Pula and Istria County since October 2002, and I have seen which funds are secured. If that's what the minister says and there's no reason why I don't believe in dynamics, then I believe in the word of the minister and I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5977	Thank you. This ended the portfolio of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. Now we're going to the Justice Department. Minister of Justice Mrs. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Amendment 381.Representatives Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5978	The amendment is not accepted. For the professional training of employees, the amount of 50 thousand kuna will be sufficient to cover the above-mentioned needs in this activity. And otherwise, the Ministry of Justice in its district has a total of 41 activities within which, among other things, funds for professional training of employees and under the CARDS project are provided for funds for the development of judges. For promotional and information services, it is planned at an amount of 10 thousand kuna on Cont 3233. Under number 3233 there are therefore promotional and planning services which the obviously respected representative has mistaken. She spoke of the proposed amount of increase from 300,000 kuna to 500 thousand kuna relating to the 3235 rents and rents, and we think that the amount of 360 thousand kuna will be sufficient since 215 thousand kunas for the rent was spent last year. Intellectual and personal services amounting to 500 thousand kunas will be sufficient since 242 thousand kunas were spent for those purposes last year, which is more than half the increase. For the professional training of employees, the amount of 20 thousand kuna in the Directorate for Cooperation with the European Court of Human Rights will be sufficient as 5,000 kuna have been spent in the last year. So that's where four times more funds are provided. And 3237 of the intellectual and personal services of the employees of this administration planned an amount of 20 thousand kuna. According to our proposal, 12 thousand kunas were spent last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5979	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5980	Thank you, Mr. President. I think that these means that are projected and something that is the key to the whole reform, which is precisely the means for the Centre for perfecting judges and other judicial officials, as well as for education and information, but especially this through the centre, which is the key to everything will not be enough. It would not be sufficient for any permanent training of judicial officials in a normal situation, let alone in a situation where almost 400 new judicial officials have been employed during the past four years, along with other officials and deputies in the judiciary, and we do not say that the last four years have almost changed completely, almost completely materially and procedurally. So it's something that requires increased engagement precisely in education, but it's also especially important for newly appointed judicial officials. If this may serve as my political pamphlet then I will quote you something that is coming out, it comes out of the opinion on the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 by the general session of the Supreme Court, which is made up of all the judges of that supreme court that is just saying and repeating what I almost said, that these funds are not enough. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5981	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 382. Also represented by Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5982	This amendment is not accepted. It refers to the professional training of employees not to the professional employment of employees as the approved representative suggested. The planned amount will be sufficient given that there was no cost of such a type in the last year, and that is the activity to be started. Furthermore, intellectual and personal services planned amounting to 250,000 kuna will be sufficient since there were no such costs in 2002. Computer services amounting to 2 million kuna will, in our opinion, be sufficient since the same amount has also been spent in the past year. Investment in computer programmes amounting to 600,000 kuna will be sufficient since the same amount was spent in the last year, so we remain at the same level. Investments when it comes to informing the criminal authorities of investments in computer programmes amounting to 250,000 kuna is sufficient since 110 thousand kunas were spent last year, so we now propose twice as much as last year. When it comes to informing judicial authorities about the professional training of employees, the amount of 500 thousand kuna will be sufficient. Intellectual and personal services amounting to 300,000 kuna will be sufficient since there were no items and these types of costs in the last year. Computer services amounting to 7 million and 200 thousand kunas are quite enough since last year's cost amounted to 7 million kuna. It is also about investing in computer programmes and for informing the judiciary that funds are provided on other projects such as land books, bankruptcy projects and CARDS programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5983	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5984	Thank you very much. The government's reasoning with a permanent argument will be sufficient. They could have been even half the funds they were supposed to be, they could have been even smaller than they were last year. It'll be enough, maybe. The government may think so, but then it's in disrepair with the ambition to carry out judicial reform. Therefore, with these means, if we talk about the obligation and the complementarity of the court seats, about the increased engagement, about the implementation of many laws that will remain a dead letter on paper with such information and say that this increase is because of the increase compared to last year does not mean anything at all in reform. Because it also took us a long time to simply change the philosophy of the court budget, and that argument is slightly higher than last year. From this point on, it really doesn't mean anything. Especially in the sense that so much has been passed, that all the laws that can be changed at all as far as the fate authorities are concerned and the ones that are primarily affected by them have been passed. And in this engagement in an increased fill-up of judges, that's not an excuse. It can be enough from the aspect of the government's opinion but that means that it really gave up that verbal declaration, judicial reform. I will tell you, the general session considers, that there are differences in verbal political commitment, that sufficient resources are provided for the work of the judicial authorities, which enable the resolution of the remaining cases and speed up the procedure for the Croatian courts. And that should be said to the citizens, you will continue to wait from the reform there is still nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5985	The vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5986	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5987	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. 384, also the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5988	The amendment is not accepted, a new project has been proposed by the municipal court in Biograd at sea, no project documentation since the building was obtained from the city's headship, the town of Biograd at sea, at the end of October 2003. Therefore, it is not possible to spend the proposed funds at an amount of 6 million kuna, since project documentation must first be made. For the project of the municipal court in Pag, a preliminary documentation was made, spending 135 thousand 420 kunas in 2004 and a civil permit will be issued so that it is not realistic to spend 5 million kunas as proposed by the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5989	My colleague Antičević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5990	The municipal court in Biograd and the municipal court in Pag are working under such conditions that there is no agricultural cooperative that would not suspend its activity and let alone. Thus, such conditions are indeed there, ruling that they are not worthy of such one function. Then it really takes more time to put the key in locks in these judicial institutions. During the former government, this property management commission agreed and reached an agreement with the town of Biograd to move out one part of the Ministry of Labour of the then and social care and that this old school is precisely intended for these needs. So these are the initial funds that would be needed then and for this little project documentation. And to start rebuilding that building. And about the municipal court in Pag, it was hard to say because when you go to that Court, then you have a few steps, then there are two, so each thread, let every party that is not younger cannot reach the court at all. So here in Pag, indeed, citizens are disabled in the simplest physical sense of access to a judicial body.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5991	Please vote. Who's in? Thank you. He did not receive the required number of votes of amendments. 385, also the same MPs. 384.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5992	Amendment 384 of the honourable MPs shall not be accepted. It is, therefore, capital projects of emergency intervention in the buildings of the judicial bodies and the prison system. It should be said that additional investment on construction buildings for these investments is foreseen to amount to 4 million and 250 thousand kuna. We also estimate that it will be enough since 5 million kunas were spent in 2003. Smaller boilers, electrical installations and roofs can be expected in 2004. Therefore, this amount is entirely sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5993	My colleague Antičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5994	I wish it was enough but it's not because these fateful, judicial buildings are really in a derivative state. It's not just about small repairs. It's about being threatened somewhere and the roof coming down. It's not long we've read that snakes come out of walls. I'm going to tell you that these funds are really insufficient to that extent, and here you yourself said that 5 million last year was spent and those funds weren't even enough. There are situations where officials, because there are no funds approved, buy themselves out of their own pockets, and you know how modest and small wages they pay those officers in court, but there were cases that they bought themselves to prevent a flood in one court when they were buying a pipe. Therefore, here, given the still derunity and non-revival in the whole of the buildings for the needs of the judicial authorities, this amount is imposed on the necessary. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5995	Please, who's in favor of Amendment 284? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 385, also respected MPs Anticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5996	This amendment is not accepted. So it's about capital projects county court in Zagreb. Additional investment has been foreseen at construction facilities amounting to millions and 350 thousand kuna. Last year, a renovation of roofs and facades was completed and this year plans to complete work on boilers and sanitary knots. And after that, the changes in the electrical installation, the arrangements of the porters planned in early 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5997	My colleague Antičević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5998	Yeah, that's right. Last year it was repaired entirely by the roof, the facade, the building really seems impressive. But the judges of the county court are not satisfied, neither are the citizens. And they say literally like this. Outer hunger in the pit. Therefore, it is almost impossible to work under these conditions and we know what obligations everything expects at its own county court in Zagreb, but also other large courts such as Rijeka, Split, and Osijek. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u5999	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Also respected MPs Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6000	This amendment is not accepted. So it's about capital projects county court in Zadar. Additional investments on construction buildings are foreseen in the amount of 585 thousand kuna. Last year, the façades were completed and a final count will be made for work on facades, changes in installation and editing, planned for the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6001	My colleague Antičević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6002	Mr. President, Madam Minister, these funds are completely insufficient. Here, you yourself have recently been there and you have seen under what conditions the judges of the county court where they are located in that building almost all the judicial bodies of the city of Zadar, the county state's attorney, are inadmissible in one orderly state that four deputy state attorneys work in the same room. We see which burden, which the task ahead of him lays the law and expects and is expected by our citizens. During the time, therefore, during the former government, we have been assured to increase the space in a way that the security services move out of that building, and therefore we expect exactly to take over the building finally and so much as necessary for the judicial authorities in the city of Zadar for the county court, the municipal court, for the state and municipal attorneys at last this year to take over the building to arrange it inside and to be able to carry out their legal task. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6003	Thank you. Please, who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 387.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6004	The word is therefore that this amendment is not accepted because there are no prepared programmes in Turopolje for 2004 at all. And it would really raise the question of where to spend all that money when nothing's done yet. It is a pity that no project documentation was made in the last year, then it could also be said of the spending of such proposed money on respected MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6005	My colleague Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6006	Last year it was renovated a whole series of Penitentiary Leprechauns, and so on. The earlier circular wall, now completely restored Leprechaun. Here's what's left of this, which is something that might threaten some of these convicts who serve a sentence in Turopoly to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights for inhumane support of punishment. So this is something that's really burning in our penile system. And if there is no funds if no project documentation is made then please at least result or approve the funds that for the project documentation so that only next year can they go into realisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6007	Who is for this amendment 387? He didn't get the necessary majority. 388 also a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6008	This amendment is not accepted because capital projects are designed and equipped by judicial authorities, office equipment and furniture are foreseen in the amount of 2 million and 717 thousand 740 kuna. And the priority in this year will be to edit the protectors and later purchases of equipment and furniture, in the last year equipment and furniture was purchased at the height of 12 million and 150 thousand kuna. And when it comes to capital facilities, they'll first devote themselves to editing the space and then we'll get equipment and furniture.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6009	My colleague Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6010	Thank you very much, it's also loud in the people told them that the judicial bodies of those who intend to do something in fact are just continuing some new projects not at all. So it's going to be dedicated to building space, rebuilding what's only partially true. It is true if they continue to start projects, there are no new projects at all. But that means if you're not going to equip them, they're not going to function. And that means no new employment, no solutions to old cases. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6011	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Amendment 389 of the HSS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6012	This amendment is not accepted by the County Court in Zlatar, the Ministry envisioned the completion of this facility 10 million kuna, so the work on the building continues. Last year 5 million kunas were spent, so this year 10 million kuna is expected to end in the first quarter of next year. And the works here go at a pace that is objectively possible, so 10 million kunas are foreseen.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6013	There's a fellow Screamer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6014	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Minister. This building has been built since 1987. Another 10 million and 500 thousand kuna is missing on this amount of 10 million kuna, to round up the financing of the building. You know yourself that judges don't even work in that building it's not a court building, it's a brand-new building building that's been going on since 1987. And the municipal, county court in Zlatar, which is the new county court, will first move into that building until next year. We think the government could have singled out another 10 million and 500 thousand kuna so the county court could move into that building this year. I'm not satisfied and I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6015	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the number enough. 390 MPs Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6016	This amendment is not acceptable to the capital statements of the prison hospital in Zagreb. Additional investment on construction earrings is foreseen amounting to 586 thousand kuna. And he'll be enough to draw up documentation to build up the wing and resuscitate the building. The construction permit in 2003 was destroyed by 25 thousand, 700 kuna. So this year we're projecting 586 thousand kuna. Here's just a reminder for the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6017	Thank you very much. Then let the public be aware that you have no expense this year for the Leprechaun who has cost millions and millions. Tax taxpayers, therefore, would now have money to restore this prison hospital to Zagreb. Because we need to know unfortunately these defendants these convicts are also quite one sick population, especially with hepatitis B. So, before we had a problem of alcoholism, now the main problem of this prison population is the problem of addiction, and the problem that is often associated with exactly this hepatitis B disease. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6018	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 391 also respected MPs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6019	This amendment is not accepted, it is about the county court's capital projects in Split. There will be a quality solution for temporary removal of judges from the building, which will therefore be a matter of building the County Court in Split. At the second location, additional investments in construction facilities amounting to 260 thousand kuna are scheduled this year. Which will be for the project documentation of the outcome of the building permit, a project that will have to be implemented in several phases. It is also related to the construction of the building acquired from the town of Split at Mažuranić's promenade, which will house part of the municipal court and municipal state attorney's office. So solutions are also needed in cooperation with the county and the city of Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6020	Dear representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6021	This area for judicial bodies in the city of Split is fully secured. However, there are derusting spaces and reconstructions to be made. So let's not talk about some new third space here. We have the County Court building in Split which in 1973 did not rebuild the facades of those panels are no longer solid, threatens permanent threats to fall on passersby or party. Last year it was invested in a land-based book department that is really fine now. But now we need to rebuild the building itself and later I will look back on those needs that need to be met about the municipal court in Split, which is what we provided for that space last year. Thus, the premises were obtained to further expand their needs. And it needs to be restored. Therefore, they will not be in office again, which is Split's judicial authorities in Split, which also have a large number of delays where we have large unfulfilled judicial bodies with the necessary staff. Therefore, we must put our strengths right into the solution of Zagrebai Split where the biggest problems are and they arise from these basic problems. I will just say what you are told and general session of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, where it is just looking back at the difficult situation in the building of the county but also the municipal situation of the building itself, where it says it threatens the direct danger of flood fires and these heating or cooling devices. Therefore, it is only for security reasons that we need to not talk about these others that are necessary and related to judicial reform. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6022	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't get enough votes. 392 also respected representative Anticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6023	This amendment is not accepted. I believe that this argument will make the honourable MP a little more concentrated, so I can hear what I'm going to say unlike the previous one. So the additional investment at the County Court in Rijeka in construction facilities is 142 thousand kuna they are scheduled for the project documentation and the outcome of the building permit. And it's about changing the electrical installation and installing the elevator. And I believe that here will go much easier work than we would go to the County Building in Split where in order to solve the installations the judges have to move, they can't get rid of the installations and work in the same building. And just to remind you, when it comes to the County Court in Rijeka last year, 50 thousand kuna were spent, and three times higher this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6024	My colleague Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6025	Whether 50 or 142 thousand will be done nothing, because these are not the means at all. You object to me here, the concentration, the deconcentration, it doesn't even matter, and I can agree with that. But citizens and parties will remain completely distracted in seeking their justice, as it has indeed given up judicial reform. It does not invest in education, information, building and equipping these judicial buildings that are so necessary. So in this material basis, the executive authority has this time shown how difficult it is to invest. So there's a big difference between what's verbalized and what's really going to be done. I understand there's no means, but there'll never be enough resources if you want to settle everything, so you'll give it to the judiciary. You should have left everything else aside here, invested funds because it's something about all of us and we'll all benefit very quickly, from individual to state as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6026	Voting? Who's in? Thank you. It's not enough. 393 also respected MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6027	This amendment is not accepted. It's about the County Court in Vukovar. Additional investment is foreseen at construction facilities of 4 million kuna, the completion of the building is planned in the following year. Project documentation has been drawn up and this amount will be sufficient to complete the projected work this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6028	Comrade Antičević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6029	Yeah. This means that the resolution, i.e. putting this building into operation is delayed. It's postponing. A solution to the case is being postponed. The reforms are being delayed. We were planning on it, and I think that's how it works in the contract to solve this problem. Last year it started a renovation, complete documentation, the truth is a major procedure, but I think it's particularly sad that last year in the city of Vukovar, such an impressive building, and we're not talking about what importance it was just last year, so we shouldn't delay its renewal now. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6030	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. 394 MPs, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6031	This amendment is not accepted. A new capital project is proposed for the County Court in Čakovec, building adaptation and 3 million kuna equipment. In this year, no project documentation has been prepared and the proposed funds cannot be spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6032	Here you go, Comrade Zrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6033	I didn't even have the illusion that it could be accepted, but I'll tell the history of the County Court in Chakovec. So ever since he was founded, he's been working in impossible conditions, in the narrow areas of the municipal court, and therefore the municipal court is working under impossible conditions because he's in the space that the municipal court had because there are now two courts. In the days of Minister Šeparovic, project documentation has been drawn up, I think it was 97th year to build up the municipal court, but it has never been realised. Now we have a chance I'd like to point out to you, Madam Secretary, this possibility. Namely, the state will come or have already come into possession of two buildings in Čakovec through compensation of debt, i.e. through certain moves towards Croatia bank, through the State Agency for Bank Rehabilitation and there is a real possibility that many services between the County Court and the State Attorney's Office are now being resolved in one of these buildings at two locations. I would like to appeal to you and to Mr. Shucker because it should go through the Ministry of Finance to at least get rid of the transfer of these buildings and then to start solving both the court and the State's Attorney's office and some other state institutions, inspections, etc. in the County of Međimurje, but all I ask is a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6034	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. 395 representatives of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6035	This amendment is not accepted. In this year no project documentation has been prepared, so it is not possible to spend the proposed funds for the County Court in Koprivnica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6036	He's a colleague of Mršić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6037	Thank you very much. So both the city and the county said they were willing to finance the main project and to issue a building permit for the upgrade of the County Court in Koprivnica, which would create a prerequisite for the transfer of part of the county court to municipal court buildings, and the municipal court in Koprivnica is the court, the most arduous court, full of the jurisdiction in Croatia and the grantovnica operating under the Municipal Court is one of the most arduous with the Varazdinian. The problem is that they really don't have the space, so sometimes they have to dictate the judgments on an alternate basis, where the County State Attorney's office is in the rented space, and equally, the Criminal Court is in the rented space, and we calculated that somewhere at the level of six years if that lease was not paid, this investment would be paid. If you are willing to finance everything that we can get a building permit and use this year, we are prepared to do so, and I guarantee you that by 20.6. we are ready to obtain a building permit to upgrade the County Court in Koprivnica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6038	The vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6039	Well, maybe the Minister will change her mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6040	We'll talk about it, but in this form, as you suggested, we can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6041	The Minister can't do it. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. ... Who's in favour of this amendment? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] There's no need for a majority. 396 esteemed representative Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6042	This amendment is not accepted. A new capital project is being proposed, the construction of a court in Bjelovar. No project documentation has been prepared in this year, so it is not possible to spend the proposed funds either. So first project documentation needs to be done and then proposed money for construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6043	My colleagues heard it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6044	Dear Minister, I will not agree with your explanation this time, since this is a really new facility, but it is a building that has designed and project documentation, which also has a building permit for which the town of Bjelovar has transferred land to the ministry and is only a matter of beginning works. Therefore, it is not clear why it is delayed, because every day it is at all a matter of the functioning and operation of the court itself because it is indeed an inadequate space in the old waste building, that it is not talking about insufficient space and how it is related to the parties in such a single space that does not even have the most serious waiting room. I'm asking for a vote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6045	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. 397 respected MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6046	This amendment is not accepted. The County Court, the Municipal Court, the County State's Attorney's Office in Velika Gorica first needs to prepare project documentation and then propose funds in this amount. This year we will try to make project documentation and prepare for the start of a complete and systematic solution to the issues of accommodation of all judicial bodies in Velika Gorica and we will discuss it with both the county and the city and in any case find a quality solution already in this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6047	Comrade Antičević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6048	Well, that promises this explanation, but I think it's one year too long to just make project documentation. Perhaps these are some peaceful, in terms of the normal conditions in which it works, in which judicial authority was found. However, that is exactly where all things need to be speeded up. So you would do well to approve these funds and, as you said this year, to make a project documentation, and then start working because the conditions in which they work and, in the end, in which they were founded, they were not really, I have no words because saying "inadequate" would not be adequate. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6049	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't get the votes he needed. 398, also respected MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6050	This amendment is not accepted. The municipal court and the Trogir Criminal Court, there are foreseen additional investments for construction facilities of 800 thousand kuna. In 2003, I remind only of orderly size, 40 thousand kunas were spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6051	Comrade Antičević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6052	It is true, they could not meet all needs in one year and it was an insufficient amount, quite, I agree, insufficient and therefore it is precisely now more time for the Municipal and Criminal Court in Trogir to finally be able to adequately and work. Therefore, this proposed funds there could, I think, still satisfy this amendment at an amount of 3 million kuna and do not forget that there is a city of Split that is so, I say, burdened with these items. Therefore, it is of particular importance that these smaller courts in the vicinity of Split be properly resolved. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6053	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't get enough votes. 399 also respected MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6054	This amendment is not accepted. The municipal court in the Grubišni polje requires reconstruction and adaptation of the building and this year will be joined to draw up documentation and the construction permit. And they've secured 65 thousand kuna funds, which will be enough for what's realistically possible to invest in this year. I remind you, 21 thousand kuna was spent last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6055	Right, last year was paid only for rent because the Municipal Court in the Grubišni polje is in rented space and that is not the solution to the situation. So that's where the building should be built. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6056	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Here we are on amendment number 400, also respected MPs Ingrid Antičević Here you go, pals. [[/Intruder: Jubilee, right?]] Here you go, pals. And I'm sorry, the minister didn't say yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6057	So this amendment is not accepted. It is the municipal court in Makarska, the building adaptation and additional investment on construction facilities are foreseen in the amount of 800,000 kuna for this year and for the arrangement of the grantovnica. Last year, 132,000 kunas were spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6058	Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6059	I'll repeat that this argument as far as it was last year, as far as it's concerned, things aren't going to start. Where there were huge increases, that's where things got rid of them. So, quite inadequate are the means that you intend to do or intend to do. They are in some nominal amount higher, but they will not solve the situation again in that place either. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6060	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 401, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6061	This amendment is not accepted. For the municipal court and the municipal state attorney's office in Split, the funds that are sufficient in the amount of 4 million kuna are provided, sufficient for the start of the works. The building was said to have been obtained in the spring of 2003 for which project documentation was produced. However, things are also related to the resolution of the County Court building in Split, where we will probably have to invent the entire court until the complete building is settled. Again, I note that this is about editing both boiler rooms and all the installations in the building and cannot be enabled to operate the court and construction works, so we will have to seek a temporary solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6062	My colleagues, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6063	So exactly what the Honorable Minister said would be necessary to invent the County Court in order to restore it. But what we're going to invent when there's not enough resources to rebuild the County Court. Here for the Municipal Court, funds are granted which will not be sufficient to address the situation in this year, so only the proposed funds of 10 million kuna can adequately resolve this situation because it is precisely because of such a situation that the county court is also connected to move until that building is resolved. So, you need to work fast because the damages of any prolonging thing will bring multiple damages. Not just in that financial sense. We're not going to say how much damage, and then it's going to do exactly that kind of situation in the accumulated cases in front of that court, which is almost more jammed. And the good part is these housing problems, and I'm going to say again, an inadequate number of judges. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6064	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 402, also the same respected MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6065	This amendment is not accepted. It is about the capital project Ilica – Selska – Barun Filipović. So, construction, adaptation, building equipment. Additional investments on construction buildings, the amount, are estimated to amount to 15 million 723 thousand kuna. We estimate that it will be enough to resolve and edit the buildings of the Criminal Court in Zagreb and the Municipal State Attorney's Office. And in this way we will begin to resolve the Municipal Court in Zagreb, which may be the biggest court in Europe in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6066	Comrade Antičević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6067	Yes, last year the state gave exactly for the needs of the judicial authorities a complete space that once seemed military and now, therefore, to solve this burning problem, I would say Croatia, because in Zagreb the biggest... objects. [[You don't understand.]] It's the largest inflow of objects, and most of all there are leftover objects because there are the most unexplained places. And there are untapped places because you just don't have a place to put them. Therefore, these are jobs that were of primary importance and here it was really necessary to secure immediately these funds that seem large at first sight in this year, but only so can we simply prevent what is threatening in the City of Zagreb, so that the entire breakdown of the system does not occur. Because last year there were large investments, and it went to the judiciary, however, an increasing number of unsolved cases grew. Which means that now, with the normative adopted and yet the beginning of such a solution needs to be more intensely intensified, that the inflow, that is, the beginning of the resolution of the remaining cases, is in one acceptable proportion. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6068	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't make it. 403 same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6069	This amendment is not accepted. New capital projects are proposed by the Court of Justice in Ilock, Rovinj, Long Village, Bjelovar, Omis and the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Omis where they are not prepared for these projects, there is no prepared documentation or the documentation is incomplete and the proposed funds have nothing to spend on because there is no documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6070	Comrade Antičević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6071	Many of these are my demands and it was realistic to expect that most will not be granted, but that it will not be met once again then I think it is too much to say, I will only quote you once again, I think you will not be deaf to the opinion of the General Court of the Republic of Croatia, which says: "It is very much a matter of reducing the funds for the regulation of business spaces in several courts, that means that these courts will not be in office. This also undermines one of the objectives of judicial reform, i.e. Resolve the cases left behind and speed up court proceedings." Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6072	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you for not getting enough votes. 404. Representatives Mato GAVran, Mato Arlović, Ljubica Vrdarić, Dragica Zgrebec and Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6073	This amendment is not accepted for the reason why a new capital project is proposed by the county court in Slavonski Brod to buy a business building owned by the town of Slavonski Brod. For many years there is a planned purchase of a business building and we have entered into negotiations and discussed the price with the town of Slavonski Brod and I believe that this year we will achieve a quality solution and join the next budget in the production of this new capital project, the County Court in Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6074	Dear Representative Mato Raven, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6075	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. It is pleasant to hear that you have entered the talks but it means that this year the court will remain in the same space in which someone else will move out of the city administration. I ask you that as you yourself have said, this problem is not since yesterday, it has been present for years but this year the City Administration is moving into a new space in the fortress in Slavonski Brod, and that we do not have a problem with the administration, so that no one else will move into that area because it is certain that the city will not simply keep unengaged, I ask you for additional efforts and to allocate funds for the purchase of this facility and permanent accommodation of the County Court in Slavonski Brod. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6076	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting enough votes. It is an identical amendment to the next 405 which is now voted. The 406th Amendment was voted in Amendment 396 and Amendment 407 of the Honored Representative Đurđa Adlesic was voted in with Amendment 396. Amendment of 408th Representative Mate Brletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6077	This proposal is not accepted for reasons which would not approach the Ilock municipal court issue, although there is no project documentation for the purchase and equipment of the building, we will still approach one solution in this year which may not be financially burdensome for this year, but Ilock will still get the court. This is going to be one solution this year for Ilock to get the court but it won't burden the state budget. And we're in negotiations with the city of Ilock to make it happen this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6078	Here you go, pal Brletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6079	I accept Mrs. Justice Minister's argument about the Ilock Court and withdraw my amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6080	I thank my colleague Brletić. 408th Amendment withdrawn. 409th Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6081	This amendment is not accepted, it is an international legal aid and the 3237 contract provides for intellectual and personal services worth 350,000 kuna, which I think will be enough since only 88 thousand kunas were spent in 2003. Therefore, there is no reason to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6082	Comrade Antičević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6083	It won't be enough because it was barely enough last year, and last year we concluded a whole series of international contracts. Among them, I will mention a direct contract, an international first, perhaps all MPs and don't know, I believe that this will also be done by a new authority that will not have the skepticism of a judicial authority to directly communicate with other judicial authorities, here is one in force between Austria, which is very important in countering this dangerous crime but also in order to resolve some of our citizens' status issues because we have a lot of our people working abroad, specifically in Austria, the question of alimony is often being asked here, therefore, such a procedure should be intensified and I think that it is only at the beginning and that this year, and that the next one will be even more intense. Therefore, it is not appropriate to refer to...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6084	Shall we vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6085	Yes, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6086	To vote, please. Who's in? Thank you, not enough votes. 410th also respected MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6087	Here, this amendment cannot be accepted, it is about the restoration of the rolling stock, road transport means are envisaged, the amount of 3 million 714 thousand kuna to be allocated for the purchase of 15 specialized vehicles, Marica, and 2 prison system delivery vehicles of 2 million kuna, and the remaining amount for the purchase of personal vehicles, I think it is still a major improvement compared to last year, so it is about the purchase of 15 Maricas that are so necessary for the work in the prison system.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6088	Comrade Antičević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6089	And that's a nice improvement, last year 12 million were secured for this purpose, and now 3 million. Well, I know it's late, but it seems to us that 3 million more than 12 is a bit unusual. But in any case, I welcome that you have just chosen to make at least one of these funds for the Marice, because it was a difficult situation that the prisoners from one court were somehow transported to another court in a way that the car would simply or cooked up so it would have to come back another, etc., these were not normal conditions at all. But that means, so now there's only the means of some, it's supposed to be 5, 6 vehicles, but here's a good two, three, that means for the judicial authorities that there's not a single vehicle. Last year, 82 vehicles were purchased that were all distributed to judicial authorities. The judicial authorities, courts and state attorneys received a new vehicle last year for the first time in 12 years. For years, they have been going in their derivative vehicles, even in their own vehicles that are inadmissible, it is inadmissible for an investigative judge or some editing judge at the Municipal Court to come to the scene of a riot in a rented car or a taxi or to watch with which lawyer they will be translated, and then disembarked so as not to see another party because they can normally draw different conclusions. So, rebuilding the fleet is a basic means, it's no luxury, if we really want to speed up in the right way... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6090	And it could be 3 more than 12, depending on the currency. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't make it. 411 also respected MPs Ingrid Anticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6091	This amendment is not accepted as a matter of curbing the abuse of intoxicating drugs. I must say there is a planned amount of 150 thousand kuna. The truth was also planned last year for 150 thousand kunas, however, the funds were not spent last year. The Ministry of Justice, however, is mentioned for the public only one of the bodies that plans the funds for these purposes. Mostly everything goes centralised through the Office to control the abuse of intoxicating drugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6092	Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6093	I think for these means, for this position, it is necessary to really allocate at least a more serious amount than a million kuna to counter drug abuse. The truth is...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6094	Wait a minute, a little more, a little more.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6095	...that it's only one way, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6096	Patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6097	...it's about what I told you earlier that the prison population has been completely changed today. If we don't have so many alcohol addicts anymore, now we have a new problem, a very serious problem of prisoners, convicts therefore a problem of addiction, and that's the obligation of the state, the prison system to enable that kind of treatment. After all, these are constant enquiries just like observers who particularly observe the prison system where they had no serious objections except that there should be significantly greater resources in view of the population or the dependence of these convicts. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6098	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 412, also the same lady representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6099	This amendment is not accepted. It's about the resociation of convicted persons who are sanctioned, who exercise sanctions on the loose. So intellectual and personal services and the amount of 600 thousand kuna are foreseen and they will be sufficient since 498 thousand kunas were spent last year. And activities related to health and veterinary services worth 500 thousand kuna will be sufficient since only 171,000 kunas were spent last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6100	Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6101	I think, Madam Minister, that you could really satisfy this amount which is not so much a significant increase but would really contribute to the resociation of convicted persons. It's an increased engagement where they're not big assets but this extra engagement would mean we don't see them in prison anymore. Equally these health and veterinary services. Last year it was, small funds were granted, insufficient funds, and you must also know that our penal institutions have increased their economic activities, that they have great needs just for veterinary protection, but also for health care both for convicted persons and staff who have to regularly go to checks, and these funds are not enough. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6102	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. Let's move on. He didn't make it. 413th also respected MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6103	This amendment is not accepted. It is about land books where a new project is proposed to organize land books on islands and a project to arrange land books in the Neretva Valley. A total of 12 million and 800,000 kuna were planned for this year as part of the Land Book project, including the World Bank loan. Last year, only a million and 800 thousand kunas were spent on all land-book projects, and this was indeed a very modest withdrawal of the World Bank loan, and here I remind you of the land-booking project is part of the island garnery.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6104	Comrade Antičević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6105	It is true that few funds were withdrawn and there were problems, and with the very beginning of the operation of the project, however, each such project had its own support and resources in the budget last year, and large funds were allocated for it. This was also one of the great plans, a project to take down land books on islands with this amount of 7 million kuna that would very quickly and adequately solve this problem on islands, especially on islands, should be reacted hastily since there is a situation where we have the last entry that was made back 100 years, and we have a large eviction population, and therefore it creates the problems of the disorientation of the catasters or the unsettled landowner of land books in the Neretva valley of burning importance. First of all, it is the interest of the Republic of Croatia. That she really knows whether it's her property and who it is or how much. After the collapse of the PICs, the spillouts, therefore it is very important to establish land books to make... /Break on tape/... that it cares about its own property. Because now some magical lawsuits appear before the court where people are complaining, where people are being recorded, and judgments are coming out, and simply no land books have been formed. That's why I think the situation is really urgent for this project. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6106	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. The 414th Amendment also respected MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6107	I can't accept this amendment either. It is about the execution of prison sentences, detention measures and educational measures on Cont 3213 professional training of employees. The amount of 190 thousand kuna is foreseen and will be sufficient since 139 thousand kuna was spent in 2003 and 3236 health and veterinary services are provided for an amount of 7 million kuna which will be sufficient since 6 million kunas have been spent in the last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6108	Comrade Antičević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6109	Madam Minister, you keep saying how much has been spent last year, but last year something that needs to be taken care of. That last year there were hundreds of new employees in the prison system. It is therefore necessary to provide for them and education and all that is behind the existing management, employees. And that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6110	Who is for this amendment 414? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. In 415, the same respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6111	This amendment is not accepted. Education of information at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, publication of the publication selection of decisions and other publications, intellectual and personal services are 70 thousand kuna. It will be enough, given that 54 thousand were spent in the last year, and there were also 54 thousand kuna for seminars and consultations, or for intellectual and personal services amounting to 20 thousand kunas, as no amount was foreseen last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6112	Here's my colleague Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6113	If you wish to implement the reform and achieve the possibility, or to allow the Supreme Court, as the Supreme Court of Justice, or the Supreme Judicial Authority in the Republic of Croatia to obtain those results and therefore play its part especially in equating judicial practice, maintaining education and special seminars and consulting in their organisation, then this amount will not be sufficient. And I note that, on several occasions, the government has approved additional funds from the reserve for this very purpose. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6114	Who's for this amendment please? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. 416th Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6115	This amendment is not accepted. These are items of international co-operation for intellectual and personal services. The estimated amount of 35,000 kuna compared to last year when 25 thousand kuna was scheduled. That's still a bigger amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6116	Comrade Antičević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6117	It was envisaged by the initial 2003 budget to significantly increase the amount, i.e. for the entire ministry over billions, but we also had an elemental drought, and then there were reduced funds, but later on, from the government's reserves concectingly according to the needs which was not worthy, however, of allowing one executive authority that had priced itself, but also the Supreme Court did not provide for such activities, such additional resources. Especially since representatives, including the president, including several members of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia were invited to meetings where no representative of the judicial authority from other transition countries was invited. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6118	Please, who is for this amendment 415? He didn't make it. Amendment 416 of the same agent. 417.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6119	It is the conduct of court proceedings, so this amendment is not accepted. Therefore, it is the conduct of judicial proceedings and the system of publication of court decisions for the professional training of employees that provides an amount of 105 thousand kuna. This is a new activity, in the last year no such activities were foreseen and for accounting services amounting to 184 thousand kuna. And it seems to us that it will be enough since it is a new activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6120	My colleague Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6121	It's a good thing that position is classified as special. However, these funds are not really enough. In particular, which activity is now being carried out by the Supreme Court in this system of publication of judicial decisions as a new form of unification of judicial practice, but equally to a new form of public enforcement. That citizens simply get to know through published decisions, including on the Internet how courts think, which can be expected from courts in similar situations, which is unequivocally and largely controlled by the public by such judgments and decisions by citizens. Therefore, this amount will really not be enough for that purpose. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6122	Please. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the need for most of it. 418th of the same MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6123	This amendment is not accepted. It is therefore an international co-operation of state attorneys for professional training of employees foreseen an amount of 30 thousand kuna. For intellectual and personal services amounting to 160,000 kuna. Just for comparison last year there were 60 thousand kunas scheduled.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6124	Comrade Antičević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6125	For professional employee training, you can see only 30 thousand kunas for the state's attorney's office. It's not possible to implement. It's not the same for intellectual services. Last year, we solved a great burden especially for the Croatian State's Attorney's Office in terms of solving its spatial problems. So now it was an opportunity to move on, to go, to give more funds for professional training. But that's what's going on this year. Unfortunately, I'd like a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6126	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. 419, also the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6127	This amendment is not accepted. Since the total budget proposal for this year compared to the previous year for some 340 million kunas larger than last year, and when it comes to the repression of organised crime corruption, it is... For the professional training of employees, the amount of 355,000 kuna is foreseen in this year, and in the case of comparison, the amount of 100 thousand kuna was foreseen in the last year. [[because of the bell at the president's table, the pay phone doesn't understand]] The international co-operation to combat organised crime for professional training provides for a new amount. For the system of analytical monitoring of crime is also, this is the introduction of a new activity for which the amount of 30 thousand kuna is foreseen and I think we have made progress on these items as opposed to last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6128	Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6129	Unfortunately, I have to defuse you, because only last year have housing problems solved for USKOK. Therefore, this year has been an opportunity to just significantly increase the funding for professional training for international co-operation to combat organised crime that has practically just begun, it has been an initial asset. These funds will not be sufficient for this ambitious purpose. But it is also a very serious reduction, i.e. the forecasting of 30 thousand kuna for the system of analytical crime monitoring. And this is the basis of exactly one intellectual basis for monitoring such, and ultimately for preparing to prevent this most dangerous crime. Therefore, I can say that unfortunately there are more important investments in the development of the judicial authority and this draft budget and the failure to comply with the amendments tells citizens that they will not be able to resolve their backlogs this year, neither will they begin to solve the problem nor will court proceedings be speeded up. However, the laws passed over the past years, which promised to speed up procedures because of inadequate financial support in this sense, but also here, the responsibility of the legislative authority will further embarrass the judicial authority, and it will not bring citizens any good, but this message is you will continue to wait for the endless solution of your judicial cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6130	Who's in favor of this amendment, please? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 420.Representatives Mate Arlovic, Mate Gavrana, Ljubice Brdarić and Ljubice Lalić. The Minister of Justice is finished.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6131	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The government does not accept Amendment 420. Last year it was provided to promote regional development, the infrastructure of the Croatian economy, 117 million kuna, this year is scheduled for 118. Unfortunately, the means for which it may have been necessary to find an option, but in the frameworks of this budget and how much left to distribute, this is the maximum that could be done. and what I would like to say is that unlike in 2003, funds were planned by county, so it's impossible to compare practically how much of the County funds were last year, because it wasn't planned by county, but jointly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6132	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. As this is the 420th amendment, I expected that at least something would be the Ship-Posavina County by this authority and assigned. Namely, since you don't know how planned it is, I'll say about the area of Brod-Posavina County. Not that I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6133	Mr. Minister, please let the representative speak, that you do not enter his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6134	Thank you very much. This year, projects to finance water supply, sewage, road construction, ports, ports, infrastructures in economic zones amounting to 164 million kunas were delivered to the Regional Development Fund. And the rest are financed by their modest budget of the local self-government unit, of course the county. As the state of Brod-Posavina County has said down the road so far, and of course we do not have enough resources to replace what was planned in the budget, and what the proposal of the state budget left behind, namely, we expected that for these projects from the fund we would receive funds of cca 20 million kuna, they are in one third of everything planned. We can't make any more serious projects with these means, so I expect that if we get anything else in the amount of last year. Please understand and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6135	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. Amendment to the 421st representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6136	The government does not accept the same explanation as for Amendment 420.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6137	Comrade Mršić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6138	Here, I'm just warning that there are still four options for the government to accept maybe another amendment to this budget. There are four more amendments, so four options. But I'd like to say here that if a million kuna is a larger increase in funds in the Regional Development Fund that it would at least be good if the Koprivnica-Crissyva County got as much as it was done last year and here's the planned reduction. This increase I am looking for would be used to build a student home in Križevci, even in such a small symbolic way as to help secondary school in Koprivnica-križevci County because, unfortunately, today we have not received a single crumb to raise standards of primary and secondary schools in Koprivnica-Kryzevci County. I am asking you to at least support here from the Regional Development Fund in order to take this symbolic step for this budget but a big step for high school students who come to a high school in Križovci and I must say that it is mostly about students who go to Agricultural High and Higher Agricultural School. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6139	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get enough votes. It is an identical amendment 422, which we voted on in the previous amendment in substance. 423. Representatives Željko Pecek, Ljubica Lalić and Bozidar Pankretić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6140	The government does not accept the same explanation as for Amendment 420.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6141	Comrade Pecek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6142	Thank you very much. Although I was aware that this amendment would not be accepted it was in some way a desperate attempt but now that I recapitulate the situation for Virovitica-Podravska County the figures are more than convenient. I have submitted six amendments to 27 investments or projects of a hundred and forty-four million kuna. If we know that the budget is 85 billion and we know that on 259 pages only on six pages I found Virovitica-Podravna County. And the figure heading towards Virovitica-Podravska County is 20 million 924 thousand 739 kuna or 2.3 promila in this budget. Here, that's the numbers, that's the result of our good hanging out today. We had a nice time, we kept the quorum together. But of course I'm coming back disappointed because most of these projects were well prepared. And I estimate that the county, the cities and the municipalities in my area that they spent at least 50% more money in the preparation of the projects than the ones they got. However, I regret that we will not single out much for road investments in this area, of course neither in railways, secondary school nor in one kuna, basic schooling million kunas, of course the judiciary and other sectors have also remained empty bags this time. I guess we'll have better luck and better... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6143	I am voting on this amendment. Please, who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 424. Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6144	The government does not accept because it considers that the funds provided are sufficient to function.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6145	My fellow Menace, here you go!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6146	And my modest contribution, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6147	Thank you. 425th Representative Mate Arlovic, Mate Gavrana, Ljubice Brdarić, Dragice Zgrebec and Ljubice Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6148	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen of the council! Agricultural land registration funds owned by the Republic of Croatia have also been provided for the division of agricultural land arrangements of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy but there is a problem in ensuring the financing of the counties under the programme adopted by this Assembly. If they secure their funds in the county, the state budget will be provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6149	Comrade Raven, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6150	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Madam Minister. Finally, the 425th Amendment and the 17th in a row to get one quality answer. I hope that many units of local self-government, of course and county will accept your challenge and that we will succeed this year in realising and geodetically measuring about 40,000... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6151	Dude, you're off.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6152	Someone's helping me, but good. So, you'll be in office first and foremost of all agricultural producers and we'll all benefit together. Thank you very much. I'm withdrawing the amendment if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6153	Thank you very much. Amendment 425 withdrawn. And the last amendment on behalf of MPs and clubs 426. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6154	The government does not accept the amendment because it envisions an increase in salaries by 800,000 kuna, an increase in contributions by 150 thousand kuna, an increase in the cost of the official trip of 250,000 kuna and an increase in professional training by 160 thousand kuna. Therefore, since only consumer character is the Government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6155	How about on behalf of the club? In the end, the money money-control Commission for Securities had only partially appointed members of the commission within two years, which the minister knows very well. Since the end of last year, the Commission has finally been in full operation and its planned budget for 2004 will not be sufficient in positions really for salaries and contributions. I would remind you that the new Securities Market Act has given the commission increased authority among other things and partial supervision of banks. The 2004 staff plan also envisions the employment of two inspectors, but if this is approved, the budget increase will not be realised again, which will condition the lack of monitoring of commissions on the ground again. We do not think it is good for the Commission to work on securities, and we ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6156	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. We now have three amendments to the Government that have arrived at the draft state budget and according to the provisions of Article 166. The rules of procedure first need to be decided by the parliament to discuss these amendments at the session. Please, who's in favour of discussing these amendments to the government? Thank you very much. Against? I find that most of the present representatives have agreed that amendments can be submitted. I ask Minister Shuker to explain the proposals of these three amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6157	So, in the final draft state budget for 2004 after the first debate in the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the following changes. In Section 0.20, the Government of the Republic of Croatia in Chapter 58. The Public Procurement Office proposes a correction of the wrongly entered expense account and is replaced by an account of 4231 road transport vehicle in the obstacle to the planned capital project 743003 renewal of the rolling stock. In section 0.30 of the Ministry of Defence and division 0.40 of the Ministry of the Interior, a new redistribution of expenditure is proposed by programmes, activities and projects. Those ministries have not been able to carry out consultations with all their components which are beneficiaries of the budget, due to the need to reduce the total budgets following the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a short period of time to amend the financial law. And we move the redistribution within the planned amounts, determine the actual necessary schedules, their expenditure within the division. In the Ministry of Culture, the 10th programme activity of culture proposes the redistribution of expenditure within the planned expenditure activities in the State Treasury system, technical errors have been made which are corrected by this proposal. In the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in the Chapter of the 50th Technology Research and Development Activities, a redistribution of expenditure of 3 million 322 thousand and 90 kuna is proposed. Within the planned projects to implement the World Bank loan for a technological development project, it is necessary to plan the participation of the Republic of Croatia in withdrawing what is proposed by this redistribution. It is also proposed to transfer the project to the Ministry of Health and Social Care of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports to the National Health School. The same change should be made because the construction, renovation and equipment of the school falls within the competence of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. An additional 15 million kuna has been provided for the implementation of that project. The loan is the participation of the Republic of Croatia arising from the loan framework agreement with the Council of Europe Development Bank. All these changes are made within the planned budget for budgetary users and do not increase the total amount of the proposed state budget for 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6158	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, only representatives of the club representatives may participate in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 1 to the Government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? I'm trying to determine that it is. Are there any abstentions, please? I find that with 80 votes in favour, 30 against and 20 abstentions, Amendment 1 to the Government has been adopted. Amendment 2. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, with 78 votes against 34, 18 abstentions, Amendment 2 of the Government has been adopted. I am voting on Amendment 3 of the Government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 78 votes in favour, 36 against and 16 abstentions were adopted and amendment 3 to the government. We have a few more amendments to the financial plans. First at the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, representative Ivan Kolar. On a proposal for a financial plan for environmental protection and energy efficiency for 2004. Madam Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund Act has determined exactly how to collect, raise funds and how they can be spent. Only through a public tender. Therefore, we cannot accept this amendment. But the competition will be open by the end of this month and all those with project documentation will be able to report it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6160	Comrade Kolar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6161	I accept the minister's explanation and withdraw, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6162	Thank you. On the plan of Croatian Waters also the amendment representative Mr Ivan Kolar. Minister Cobankovic, come in. On the proposal of the financial plan of the Croatian Waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6163	We do not accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6164	Please, a little, why, explain briefly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6165	We don't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6166	Give me a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6167	There's not enough resources to accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6168	Comrade Kolar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6169	I, I pray, Mr. President, was thinking of withdrawing the amendment. Thank you for your explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6170	On the plan of the Croatian Roads of Honored Representative Zvonimir Mršić, the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6171	Mr. President, I'd like to ask if I could give an explanation for all three of these amendments. Therefore, representatives of Zvonimir Mršić, the club of HSP representatives and representatives of Ivan Kolar, since they are practically identical.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6172	All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6173	Since the atmosphere is cheerful, it is our turn to finish this debate a little nicer today, so in consultations with Croatian roads, we propose that investment investments be reduced by 10 million kuna, also from material expenditures with 5 million kuna. So the co-financing of county and local roads increased by 15 million kunas primarily due to the very good proposal of MP Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6174	Thank you very much. I must now ask the MPs who submitted us to the amendments. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6175	Well, I'm adjudicated by this fact that with 15 million kuna, something can be bought. But 15 million kunas can't make a lot of county roads. The point was that the funds collected 060 kuna from the price of gasoline were more justly distributed between the Croatian roads for the maintenance of state roads and the county road management for the maintenance of county roads. I said in the debate that there is that we have 21 thousand kilometers of county roads and 7 thousand miles of state roads. In which case the standard of orchestration of national roads is 1 - 9 in relation to the county roads. Which means we have about 14,000 miles of state roads, and 21 thousand miles of county roads. It would be apparent that the funds are distributed in half, not 10% from the price of gasoline, to the county road administrations and 90% for the maintenance of Croatian roads. Therefore, I ask that my amendment be voted upon. Because I don't think 15 million kn can be done evenly. That there's gonna be some kind of buyout for the chief or some head of the county road office. It's about five or six kilometers of county maintenance. So it's done. Please. 21 million. It's about 500 or 600 million different proposals. So it's a model, not 15 million kuna. And it doesn't need to be taken off investment, but it needs to be taken down where 060 percent is from the price of gasoline. Because the county road administrations also have very complex problems maintaining the county roads and have many more kilometers of these roads. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6176	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6177	I'd like to thank Mr. Minister for his understanding. The mountain road of the model Cardinal Franjo Kuharić will therefore be built by St. Gere with the cave Jazovka symbol of the tortured Croatian people during and after World War II. To the mountaintop of St. Gera. We spoke to Minister Roncevic two days ago, he expressed hope that talks with Minister of Slovenia Grisold will result in the withdrawal of the army there. The construction of the road itself provides other opportunities. So I thank you. Unlike these 14, 15 million we will try to raise with charity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6178	That means you're withdrawing this amendment. Thank you very much. Number 3 of amendments MP Ivan Kolar to increase the funds of Croatian roads. A colleague of Kolar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6179	Well, this explanation that Minstar gave is still better than that before. With my intention to submit the amendments was for real reasons because 1,000 km of county roads that came under the jurisdiction of local administration and self-government in this way of funding and with these funds certainly cannot be maintained in quality. When each highway is built, they are the first to die because the source of material is on our roads and through our roads and income goes to the central state. Mr. Minister one thought, it's your move to decentralisation and show it not with 15 million that 250 I would withdraw the amendment but now please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6180	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. And representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6181	The government cannot accept this amendment for several reasons. First of all, Croatia's roads are even consolidated government balance sheets and you know that for Croatian roads, highways this year are projected a deficit of 1.8%. I must mention here that due to overruns in Croatian highways, Croatia's roads have reduced their plan by 350 million to fit the planned deficit 1.8%. I must also say that, unfortunately, of the billions of kunas issued, it took 760 million to go to Croatian highways. 230 million were left unpaid by Croatian highways, but unfortunately neither the national budget's jury has that money. And therefore I am sorry I would rather that we could have the credit that planned the Croatian Cessette to raise and then the financial plan of the Croatian roads was even above what Mr. MP suggested. But due to the overrun last year of billions and 200 thousand kuna, which this year is the burden of the Croatian highway budget, we simply had to reduce the financial plan of the Croatian roads by 350 million kuna. Which they planned to realise from the extra charge. So, only because the funds were spent that weren't planned for that year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6182	Dear Representative Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6183	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I am not talking about the total necessary resources of the Croatian Roads by talking only about 130 million necessary funds for the ongoing maintenance and the regular and extraordinary. Why I'm talking about it. Because a strategic plan has been set to reach the full tenant of both roads by 2007. The road condition at this time shows that we have only 18% of roads that are in good condition, 36 or 35% of roads that are in acceptable condition, and even 46% of roads that are in unacceptable condition. That's why we have 12 dead on 100 thousand people, which is twice as much as Europe. And on 100,000 vehicles, we've only got 42 dead in Europe. Thus, it is necessary to secure the 130 million. The funds exist in the agreed loans, the level of debt is not problematic. And what's most important on the road is that this year more than 8 billion kunas will be invested when we speak or about 8 billion of them on one road and another. 130 million more for these necessary investments in maintenance. I don't think it's unacceptable. To talk about the fiscal deficit which is the problem I think the total amount of investment in the road can be resolved and consolidated. And I think it was meant to provide for road maintenance because otherwise the required standard will not be met by 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6184	Thank you. I am voting on this proposal. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm sure he wasn't accepted. Please quorum. There are 126 MPs in the assembly. I am voting on the proposal for a state budget. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I find that 86 votes for, 40 against the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004, are in the text proposed by the Government. In accordance with Article 24. [[Applause.]] I am giving the budget law to the vote of the Decision on granting consent to the 2004 Financial Plan of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I find that with 86 votes for, 40 against this decision. In accordance with Article 24. I am giving the budget law to the vote of the Decision on granting consent to the 2004 Financial Plan of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 86 votes in favour, 40 against the decision being made. In accordance with Article 24. I am giving the budget law to the vote of the Decision on granting consent to the 2004 Financial Plan of the Croatian Employment Institute. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 86 votes in, 40 against the decision-making process. In accordance with Article 24. I am giving the budget law to the vote of the Decision on granting consent to the 2004 Financial Plan for Croatian Waters. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that with 86 votes for, 40 against this decision. In accordance with Article 24. I am giving the budget law to vote on the Decision on granting consent to the financial plan for the year 2004 of the Croatian highways. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 86 votes in, 40 against decisions made. In accordance with Article 24. I am giving the budget law to the vote of the Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan for the year 2004 of the Croatian Roads. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 86 votes in favour, 40 against a decision taken with an accepted amendment. In accordance with Article 24. I am giving the budget law to vote on the Decision to give consent to the 2004 Financial Plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 86 votes for, 40 against this decision. In accordance with Article 24. I am giving the budget law to vote on the decision to give consent to the 2004 Financial Plan of the Croatian Privatisation Institute. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 86 votes for, 40 against this decision. In accordance with Article 24. I am giving the budget law to vote on the Decision on granting consent to the 2004 Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 86 votes for, 40 against this decision. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to carry out a revision of the text of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the year before its publication in "The National Journal". Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that it is unanimous with 126 votes to come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6187	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I cannot be impressed by the impression on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP that this final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia was actually to be discussed before the budget itself. This is for the simple reason that the draft law on the implementation of the State budget on both the Constitution and Article 6 of the call, as well as Article 6. Budgetary law. However, in Article 37 of the draft budget law, a whole series of provisions such as Article 9, Article 10, Article 19, Articles 26, 28, 29, 75 and 90 are put in place, so much more than is listed in Article 37 out of force, and the question is whether, under the Budget Act, there is any such possibility that the Budget Law will be made, or which act by hierarchy is stronger and stronger. It is obvious that the basic law or organic law, the Budget Law, and that this Budget Implementation Act must comply with the Budget Law and that, in this context, it is quite clear, could not put the Budget Implementation Act out of effect from application in the specific case of the provision of the Budget Act. And what provisions were put out of force? A provision of Article 9 was put in place, which, in addition to the budget, consists of a general and specific section, says that it also consists of a development plan that has not actually been submitted to the budget. The plan of development programmes per year should be sorted by years which form the plans of budgetary user development programmes set out in the medium-term development plan, specific laws and other regulations. These are also not the contributions of our budget that we just finished the debate here. It is clearly stated in Article 10 that the financial plan of extra- budget users consists of the general part and I stress the specific part in which the revenue and receipts and expenditures and expenditures allocated to the current and development programmes are shown. These ongoing and development programmes are missing as a contribution to the budget and in this respect the budget is actually not drawn up in accordance with the Budget Law. Article 19 says, among other things, that the budget for the financial year and the budget projection for the next two years must have a budget for the previous financial year and an estimate of the budget of the current financial year. Of course, these projections of the budget for the next two years were also contributions we did not have with the budget or we got them or we could. Why? Because it has actually been determined by the Proposer that by simple move of Article 37 of this Budget Act, he has put aside the power of application in this year, and in such a situation he has actually brought himself to make his job easier. The second question was and it was successful, he made it easier for himself, but it was doubtless clear whether it was under the Budget Law and the constitutional aspect of the fundamental law he could have done. In such a situation, we, from the SDP Representatives Club, through the amendments of our colleague Zgrebec, are seriously to be examined. There's something else I have to say that's very interesting about this budget law. Nor is it the attention that is given in making the budget that we have discussed, nor is it on average, dedicated to drawing up a final Law on the implementation of the budget. However, it has been made quite lightly so that a whole series of remarks can be put from a nomotechnical and linguistic aspect of this proposal, the final draft law. That's how it is, for example. Our Committee on Legislative Law put on the Budget Law, on Implementation, the Final Act on the implementation of the budget of 16 amendments and three observations. It should be recalled that the law itself has the 43rd article, meaning there is an observation on each other and in such a situation it is quite clear that this law should be considered more seriously until final adoption, i.e. until the adoption of the vote. I would also like to put in addition to these remarks put forward by the Legislative Committee, and I would like to put in some more. The question is raised in Article 4 when it is said in paragraph 2 in order to maintain the current liquidity, the Ministry may withdraw available funds for the account of users from the account of users. I think that should be added that the ministry must inform, the Ministry of Finance must inform the user, because otherwise the user will not know how it stands since it operates through the Treasury and therefore should add that part. A specific problem arises in Article 6. It calls for the Law on the Construction and Fraction of Ministrys where it is said in accordance with the provisions of the law... to divide the budget, allocate funds to users or in the current stock of budgets published in "The People's Journal". However, here is published the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Ministrys only an article from the "National Journals" 199/03, and has not yet been published nor could a new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Design and Fraction of the Ministrys discussed at this session be published, which will be adopted before the publication of the budget, which sets out entirely different competences in certain ministries and certain administrative and central bodies of administrations and administrative organisations, and therefore it is certainly necessary in Article 6 to specify these "National Journals" or rather that part of the provisions. That is why the law had to be passed before the budget law was passed and published in the "National Journals" so that it could be corrected in the Budget Implementation Act. In particular, it is an interesting solution in Article 10 which calls for collective agreements where it is said that they are concluded between the Government and the Union and then it is a specific provision that the part for which this law is not otherwise prescribed. No collective agreements may contain much more than is prescribed by this law, and they shall not contain what is contrary to this law as prescribed and in this respect should be corrected, of course, this part. In Article 12, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: It would also make further comments, for example, on Article 18 in relation to Article 19. The question arises whether point 4 in both articles must be repeated, etc. And not to be too long since it's small hours around this bill, it's necessary to review it once again languagefully and nomotechnically because, for example, In Article 35, paragraph 1 lacks the word "is", and if it is not, in fact, substantially alters the meaning of the content provision, so that part should be corrected and regulated in this respect. Otherwise, we must recognise in view of the provision of Article 37, depending on whether our amendment will be accepted or not, we will vote in favour of the Budgetary Act if that amendment is accepted and deleted. If this is the case, Article 37 shall remain this way. The SDP advocates' club will vote against the Budget Implementation Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6188	I thank my esteemed colleague Arlovic. No more registered speakers, no more MPs, no more clubs. Go ahead, Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6189	Thank you very much, Mr. President, very briefly for Article 37. You remember when we passed the Budget Law last year with its application of the 1st part for this part of the 2004 budget. The Law stated that I am now not exaggerating 50 regulations, sublegal acts, which must be harmonised and adopted. Unfortunately, however, the former minister and the ministry did not do so, since it was not done we simply had to go to this formulation of Article 37, because some things are impossible to do because there are no rules for certain things. So this is the only way, this isn't avoiding the ministry from doing anything or not doing anything, but if the rules aren't prescribed, then there's some things you can't do. So, you remember when we discussed there was a back list and then it was said first that frankly speaking this budget law has only one country in Europe. And no country has it either this complex way or applies it and when the law is passed, it has been warned that it is impossible to comply with all acts with the new Budget Act within 6 months. And there's going to be a lot of trouble. Here it is, but that's why I say some kind of Solomonian solution has tried to go to this formulation of Article 37. Okay, we can agree on some compromise solution to reach some consensus here, but I'm saying that's a fundamental problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6190	to prepare for the next week a proposal for amending and supplementing the Budget Law in which one, two provisions will be put. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] One provision under which Article 37 will now apply in this year and enter into force on the day of its publication in the National Journal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6191	That's a good suggestion, because there's something coming up from that building next door about the budget law, some reaction. Okay, thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. I'll see you later. The session's on Wednesday 3 at 10. At 10 p.m. because television starts at 10 p.m. and not at 9:30 p.m. like my colleague Ljubica Brdarić said good morning, I can now greet with an easy morning We still have the Final Proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004, second reading, P.Z. No. Thirty-two. The debate on the text of the law is over. We have an amendment to the Government, the same procedure first, as in Article 166. Please, who's in favour of voting on the government's amendments? Thank you very much. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, with 116 votes for and 10 abstentions, the Parliament has given its consent within the meaning of Article 166.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6193	Wrong, the two of us were against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6194	What? Yeah, well, that's how I got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6195	We did, we did. We were against it. You're counting wrong, guys. You're counting wrong. We're not going to insist on recounting because it's the majority that we can't question her, but we were against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6196	Please, end of your objection, I am obliged to repeat the vote. Who is it for these amendments to the Government to get the Parliament to discuss them? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 113 votes in favour of, 3 against and 10 abstentions, it is concluded that the Parliament accepts that the Government can submit amendments. I now ask the Minister of Finance to explain the amendments to the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6197	Thank you very much. Amendment 1 provides for a new item 1 in Article 5, which reads as follows: "In the budget the planned funds of the current budget stock amounting to 318 million 86 thousand 911 kuna." Articles 1, 2 and 3 so far become paragraphs 2, 3 and 4. This amendment shall be made for the purpose of implementing Article 45(5). The budget law which determines that the Law on the implementation of the State budget determines the amount of the budget stock that cannot be higher than 0.5% of the original income without receipt. And purely for the public, because today's budget stock spent here last year, 352 million and 287 thousand kunas of budget stock were spent last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6198	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Only representatives of representatives' clubs can participate if they want to. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 1. Governments to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 113 votes in favour, 2 against and 10 abstentions, Amendment 1 to the Government has been adopted. Amendment 2, Minister Shucker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6199	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter The law changes and says: "The value added tax paid by equipment purchase accounts in 2004 will return to the burden of value added tax to public fire departments, voluntary fire companies and fire departments.". Article 2 "funds achieved since the return on value added tax can only be used for investment construction and procurement of fire-fighting equipment." With this amendment, the Government allows the return of value added tax by the accounts paid for the purchase of equipment to carry out their activity in 2004 on the burden of value added tax revenue.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6200	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 2 to the Government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 122 votes for, 3 abstentions, Amendment 2 of the Government has been adopted on this bill. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6201	Thank you very much. Article 32a and 32b, which reads as follows: "Article 32a: Paid value added tax on imported and abroad will be returned to the burden of value added tax on authorised scientific institutions registered under specific rules not registered in the register of value added tax taxpayers. Article 2 The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports shall verify the projects and issue agreement for the procurement of equipment for the implementation of the projects referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. Article 3 The scientific institutions referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may, on the basis of the consent referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article and the invoice on imported and purchased equipment, be entitled to return value added tax. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports shall provide the Government with a quarterly report on the purchase of equipment and the amount of funds spent as referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. And paragraph 5. The Ministry of Finance will provide guidance within 60 days of the entry into force of this law in accordance with the Ministry of Science, Education, Sports on the conditions and way of exercising the right to return to value added tax as set out in this Article." Article 32b(1): "Current compensation of assets, assets... the optant during 2004 will be implemented from the funds of the current budget stock. [[You don't understand.]] Article 2 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This amendment is proposed for the implementation of the obligations of the Republic of Croatia, resulting from the Osilisk Agreements and the Treaty of Rome, which Croatia took over in 1992 on behalf of the payment of the compensation to Italy for the compensation of the property of Esula. The amount of funds to be paid in 2004 will depend on the implementation of specific regulations and contracts and will be paid out of the funds of the current budget stock. During 2004, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6202	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 3. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Agent Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6203	I've had a hard time tracking the same finance minister, but I've got a few terminology irregularities. I think that's what we have to take care of. This isn't about the Oslim Agreement. This is about the Treaty of Rome. And secondly, this isn't about a fee for the Esuls, it's about a fee for the optans. All optants and esuls, however, are not all esulsants.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6204	Here you have, you have some kind of escule-optant thing, so it's... I'm opening up. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 3. A colleague of Furio Radin. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6205	I'd like to add to what my colleague Cain said that all those who went away didn't even get angry, let alone the octans, some just left. So there are dams, octanates and those who have left if we want to be wordologically accurate. Some of them left for economic reasons, so they didn't even take no for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6206	Please, who's for this amendment 3? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. In the text edit should take the correct and correct formulation, this belongs to the text edit. I find that with 117 votes in favour and 7 abstentions, Amendment 3 has been adopted. Government. Amendment number four, please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6207	Thank you very much. Therefore, Article 37 of the Treaty on the This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Budget law which could not be applied in part or in full when drawing up the proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004. The suspension of the application of the article on the budget law was due to the adoption by the Croatian Parliament of the Budget Law at the meeting on 29 May 2003 with effect from 1 July 2003. The provision of that Law provides for the adoption of more than 40 sublaws for the implementation of that Law, however, unfortunately no sublegal act has been adopted until the adoption of this Act, including the acts of Articles 16, 28 and 29. Laws which are the basis for drawing up financial plans for budgetary users. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The budget law said that by mid-May of the current year, the government had adopted guidelines for the economic and fiscal year for the three-year period, resulting in technical provisions of this Act being not fully applicable for the making of the 2004 budget. In particular, we note that, when the draft Budget Law was proposed, it was proposed to postpone those legislative provisions relating to programming and development programmes by 1 January 2006, for reasons of staff, technical and other reasons, the inability to carry out such complex activities in the preparation of the budget in practice only for a few months, since it would have been a regular budget-making process then only two and a half months from the time of adoption of the Law. On 11 September 2003, the Croatian Parliament adopted a decision on the temporary financing of the functions and programmes of state bodies and other beneficiaries of the budget of the Republic of Croatia in the first quarter of 2004, and after the establishment of the new Croatian Parliament on 22 December 2003, the Law was adopted on the establishment, delineation of ministries and state administrative organisations "National Journal" 190/03. a significant change in the stalemate of budgetary users, which, in addition to the above mentioned above, led to the failure to implement, in the short term, a new Government of the Republic of Croatia, a programme of work which could not be operationalised within the meaning of those legal provisions, and in particular because there were no such sublegal acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6208	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6209	Mr President, honourable colleagues and colleagues, let us raise our doubts on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP whether this is the way to regulate non-application of Article 9, Articles 10, 19, 26, 28 and 29 of the Budget Act relating to the adoption of the budget and the adoption of the Law on the implementation of the State budget. By way of derogation from Article 4(1) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The Budget Act, paragraph 2. The implementation of the budget is based on the principle of legality, efficiency, economics and transparency. It is also referred to in Article 6 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law of paragraph 2 is clear as to what the Budgetation Act must contain. We believe that it was far wiser and even more necessarily necessary to amend and supplement the budget law in which it was to be put into effect, one year or more, these provisions, which are mentioned here, and not that the Law amending the provisions of the Budget Act, or postpones their application, because the Budget Act is an organic law and this Law cannot be postponed in our opinion in the application of these provisions of the Budget Act. The second thing we have to say is here is this article 37, or Amendment 4. The Governments of the Republic of Croatia tried to correct the text that we had in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget under which it was actually claimed only when planning the budget was not subject to the provisions of the Budget Law, but this does not justify the Proposer, because the provisions of the Budget Act by force of the Budget Law had to apply to the construction and establishment of the Budget Proposal and the Budget Law itself. These are congenital norms, very strongly prescribed by the Budget Act, and I must remind my fellow Members and colleagues all of us that, among other things, Article 140 and Article 139 above all, it is prescribed that a criminally responsible person will be punished with a fine of 500 000 to million kuna for non-application, i.e. for infringements of the provisions of Article 26, Article 28, Article 29, etc. in points as you can see, in the end, it is sufficient to look at Article 139(1), for example, points 1 to 11. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in The Budget Act stipulates that a person responsible for the budget will also be punished by a fine of 21 thousand to 100 thousand kuna if certain provisions do not apply again, Article 26, 28, 29. etc. In fact, what the legislator wanted when he adopted the Budget Act, he wanted to create an organic law by which the rules and methods and methodology of budgeting were to be established and, of course, the Law on Budget Implementation and, in this respect, we must clearly say on behalf of our Club that, from this whole set, it follows that this Law neither sets out the principle of the budget law nor the aspect of the obligations arising from the Budget Act, it is not possible to put into effect the provisions of the Budget Act temporarily, in fact, to postpone their application rather than to adopt an amendment to the Budget Law and the Amendments and Supplements Act for a certain period of time not to apply the provisions of Articles 9, 10, 19, 26, 28 and 29 in addition to Article 2(2) thereof. Budget law, and possibly Article 6. And for this reason, we will not be able to accept this amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, depending on it, of course, because neither the Law on Budget Implementation, we have made the amendment, colleague Zgrebec has made a proposal for an amendment that requires that Article 37 of the Law on Budget Implementation be deleted, because we consider it better to leave this issue of the Law on Budget Implementation unregulated, but in this way regulate it because it is in fact question from the aspect of legality and today someone can start certain disputes that can challenge the legality of adoption not only of the Law on Budget Implementation but also of the Budget itself and in this context certainly cause certain complications and problems both in this House of course and all users of the State Budget in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we will not be able to support this amendment, this amendment 4. Governments of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6210	Thank you very much, Mr. Arlovich. Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6211	I would just like to remind the distinguished representative Arlovic of the debate in this High House in the past term in May. When we opposition MPs then proposed to the Government to postpone the application of this Act because of the inability to adopt all 40 sublegal acts. But I would like to warn you that according to this budget law, 560 units of local self - administration have brought their budgets and it is impossible to blame someone who came a month and a half ago because someone had not done a few things before. Now the revised article 37 then raises the question of what the Budget Law applies to all units of local self-government, so for all the city, municipal councils and county councils when they passed their budgets under their law. But I'd just like to say one more thing. Unfortunately, this is not the only law for which sublegal acts have not been passed in the Ministry of Finance. Nor will the mandatory contribution rule, which will now require several tens of thousands of pension and health payments, which were said to be thrown into the basket at 10 months last year, also to be passed and signed even though the law was passed a year and a half ago. Now there's one question: Is it possible to make an exception if someone has not previously fulfilled their legal obligation? Well, I think since the SDP Club was in the last coalition, then it would be logical for them to first support such an amendment because unfortunately the last government did not carry out its obligations. If the last government had done everything they needed then we could only suggest what is required under this law. Unfortunately, however, even if the past government had agreed to the budget, it would have been in exactly the same situation because the budget would have been held for debate in the 12th month. And surely these legal provisions would not have been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6212	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Honorable deputy president Mato Arlovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6213	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I did not blame anyone for not implementing the Budget Law but expressed my doubts to our club as to whether the non-application of the Budget Act was legally adopted and whether the Budget Law would be legally adopted and at the same time made a proposal as possible from that trap, if that, there are arguments to come out of it. We also represented the thesis in the debates of the Budgetary Law and now that the amending and supplementing the Budget Law and the provisional application of the provisions of Article 4, Article 6, Article 9, Article 10, Article 26, 28, 29. Budget law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6214	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for discussion. I am voting on Amendment 4. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 86 votes in favour, 35 against and 3 abstentions, Amendment 4. Government. Amendment 5. Go ahead, Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6215	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The Budget Act provides for the possibility of deferral of payment and payment of the debtors, the debt in cases where the debt is charged on the basis of the State guarantees but not on the basis of public charges, in the light of the general tax law. Therefore, this amendment proposes the possibility to postpone payment or to grant the payment of the payment of any outstanding public charges, with the consent of the Government, on a written request from the Head of Finance, in accordance with the consent of the Government, to make solutions, a solution to that delay or to the payment of the periodical payment. It is important to stress that the debtor is obliged to regularly settle current obligations and during the payment or payment granted in the form of payments. If this is not followed against it, an executive procedure will be initiated. The implementation of that article shall allow the collection of the budgetary and extra-financial claims made by the public debtors without prejudice to their necessary operations for the execution of the due and the outstanding debt. I must say that for the past few years this has been one of the main requirements of the association, the association, in fact the association of craftsmen of Croatia. The same as the Croatian Employers' Association. We are aware of the fact that last year in the second half of the 12th month, although it coincides with some events over 80 companies in Slavonia were sent into bankruptcy because the tax administration had no other legal solution but given the debt and blockade of more than 60 days in accordance with the Bank's Banking Act, the tax administration launched bankruptcy. Perhaps if it had become a mechanism of payment that helps taxpayers only for current payments in the current year, rather than payments from previous years, it might have been possible to help certain bonds and I would say that in this way not as critics of this amendment say we will increase the default, I believe that in this way we will increase the payment of State budget revenue and also help them to pay certain bonds that are due to VAT, and so will those who are working at this point on Croatian highways that have not been paid a billion and a half, that we will thus help them when the state pays that they will be able to pay their obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6216	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6217	I am correcting the incorrect assumption that the cause of the opening of bankruptcy may have been the absence of this instrument for the simple reason that the causes of many bankruptcys were five-year unpaid claims based on taxes and contributions. Five-year-old. And this institute, which is proposed here, speaks very clearly, has no application of the institute if it has any old obligations, so I am correcting the minister and not using incorrect information.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6218	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the Honorable Vice-President of the House Mr. Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6219	Mr. President, respected colleagues and colleagues of the SDP Representatives Club will not support this amendment either. Governments of the Republic of Croatia to the Law on budget implementation for legal, political and economic reasons. So let's start in order. First of all, it should be taken into account that such an amendment with a formal legal aspect is actually questionable whether the harmonised legal system of the Republic of Croatia namely the General Tax Code as a basic law in this area does not provide for such a possibility for taxes to be paid in wars. Secondly, a discretionary assessment of the Minister or the Ministry of Finance is introduced, although the Government agrees that some entities may be allowed to, therefore, not be required, but in such a situation, it is difficult to be rightful that everyone will be treated equally and in equal cases, ensure that all entities are equal before the law. In such a situation it is possible to be according to some entities, economic operators, and according to some stepmothers and in such a situation it is quite clear that it is difficult to avoid a subjective basis which, subjective assessment which should be based on an objective basis, i.e. legal possibility, is given. Thirdly, what we would also like to warn in particular is that in such a situation, it will simply be politically motivated by economic operators, essentially to postpone payment of tax obligations and other taxes that contribute, etc. which they have according to the state, i.e. public bodies of public law in the Republic of Croatia, for a simple reason, because simply by delaying and paying war they get the opportunity to use State budget funds in their own business for a certain number, for a certain period of time which they can of course rotate, to earn on the funds of the budget. At the same time, it must not be forgotten in economic and political terms the role of the country in so-called economic business relations, i.e. civil legal relations when they act as an economic operator to third parties and when they have to comply with obligations to third parties, whether due to the irregular inflow and because of the possibility of such determination of how to pay for the inflow of funds into the state budget will lead to the fact that practically the state starts to delay in paying its obligations and to third parties who meet the obligations towards the state in such a situation, of course, to start disrupting the state and accidentally bringing itself into a situation of disturbing the laws, markets, or supply and demand. And of course, here is the question, is it possible and is it possible, in relation to the financial discipline that we want to introduce into society, in fact, possible to accept such a provision, and that at the same time we ourselves want to establish financial and legal discipline or rather one of the foundations of the rule of law and the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia if we introduce such things. We are here to be absolutely clear that this is what financial discipline wanted or did not want to weaken and that in such a situation we objectively put ourselves in a situation that we cannot in essence meet all those obligations that we should actually and must fulfil first and foremost according to the users of the state budget that these revenues require to Alimentate the funds for financing their needs in accordance with the state budget and the Law on the implementation of the state budget. For all these reasons, we will not be able to vote in favour of Amendment 5 to the Law on the implementation of the budget tabled by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6220	Thank you. A brief review of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6221	Thank you very much. I'm sorry this proposal was misunderstood. First of all, the delay will not be divided by a hand and a hat, as it is said, but rather emphasized at what point. The second thing, nowhere in this law, is actually the amendment not to mention the release from the tight interest. It is only said in cases where taxpayers have objective difficulties in business. And you also have a case with citizens, when citizens have some inheritance where taxpayers, and their incomes don't allow them to pay at the same time as taxes. So these are all instruments that are known, which are nothing new, instruments that basically improve tax collection. But I would remind myself of the Income Law not charged with claims, where it was reportedly announced that the state owed 24 billion kuna, where it was lost for a year and a half of the mucotropic work in the tax administration, and the effect of all of this was some billions and a half, two billion deals, and those 20 and a few billion went to the wind. So the purpose of this amendment is just to help collect and to help taxpayers who are at a given moment find themselves in a difficult situation. So, as you have seen in the proposal for this amendment, the Government will report on the implementation of the budget in 6 months and on the annual report on the basis of which the High House has given the return payment and under what conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6222	Thank you very much. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Mato Arlovic, vice president at home.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6223	First of all, I want to make it right that I said that the delays would be shared by hand and hat, regardless of what the figurative minister tried to say. For the simple reason I was talking about the discretionary assessment that puts in me wanted it or didn't want the subjective element in an objective actually situation related to that fact. I'm glad Mr. Secretary mentioned that this law does not exempt itself from the strained interest, and I am correcting that assumption. But it also does not stipulate that tight interest will be applied, so we need to make sure that the interest is tightened under special law when the deadline is exceeded and the public debt is not charged. Now, if this law will allow you to pay in wars, then it is an agreement by two entities, and nowhere is it spoken under what conditions and under what conditions, which is the additionally difficult inclination of this provision and of this amendment. This should be further discussed under which conditions a possible delay could take into account, and when and in what cases, when it is sought by social, economic, of course, political and economic interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6224	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6225	Your Honor, Mr. President. It's not true what Mr. Minister said about making tax payments better. In fact, it was evident that when someone under these conditions had been delayed to pay that such entities had just been natural or legal persons, they had stopped paying. and what is evident already now, so the government will discretionaryly re-infiltrate policy into the economy for one tax postponement, and later practically non-payment, and for other financial police who are preparing to reintroduce.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6226	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Linic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6227	I am correcting the Minister's allegations that 20 billion kuna or 22 billion kuna have been lost due to the Law on the List of Requests. Unfortunately, most of that 22 billion, and that's a huge amount of money lost just because of this and this institute. Because by last year, exactly the tax administration and the finance minister had the right to postpone for 10 months. These delays and these benefits and these discretionary rights have eaten 20 billion and created unfair competition for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6228	Thank you very much. I'm putting it to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6229	Look, I don't think there's any need to keep things clean. Mr. Linic, you have pompously announced this law with the exact intention of political discrediting Croatia's democratic community. You said 24 billion went past the state budget. And it's not true that it went away because of the payment of the meal. You know very well, and here you were suggested that these debtors must be divided into four groups, and here I was told by this speaker at the time of the law that you will not charge more than 2 billion, 2.5 billion kuna, for the simple reason that this debt applies precisely to which groups of companies. And it has nothing to do with the payment. But I am glad that you did not give up this year, against the requirements of both the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Employers' Association.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6230	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6231	I am correcting the assumption that the Law on the List of Requests has been passed to discredit HDZ. Obviously, the minister must learn a lot, that we must understand that there is a general tax pardon. And if the tax administration manages in five years to create 24 billion directly unpaid taxes and contributions then it must be thought about what the instrument is to enable some to either pay or actually conduct a procedure or a settlement or bankruptcy in order to first create a loyal match on the Croatian market. Therefore, anyone who does not understand why the Tax Forgiveness Act was passed and that it was primarily the last possibility that the administration that was hand - in - hand and hat shared these discretionary decisions would have been done by the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6232	Look, Mr. Linic, you've just introduced a law on income and unpaid claims of forgiveness for those who haven't paid taxes regularly. You have thus rewarded those who did not pay taxes and all Croatian taxpayers who regularly paid taxes were punished because they were not forgiven for neither 50 nor 60% as forgiven under these agreements. So, this law has been introduced and I repeat this again for the Croatian public what I said here two years ago for this speaker. The result of that 24 billion is not a mere payment but something completely different. But I'm saying, the primary intention of that law was to discredit HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6233	Dear Representative Slavko Linic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6234	I am correcting the imprecise statement by the Minister that the Law on Forgiveness of Claims has allowed the signing of debts. Conversely, it was possible for those who were willing and able to pay a partial tax to forgive a large part of the tax, much to forgive but still to pay a part of the tax. And those who couldn't, and given the 24 billion that all around 2 billion were realized... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6235	I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment 5. Government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 87 votes in favour, 15 against and 4 abstentions, Amendment 5 has been adopted. Government. Now we still have one table of amendments from the seven amendments. Mr. Shucker, go ahead! Amendment 1 to the First Amendment of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6236	The government does not accept this amendment because the government believes that the debt cannot be owed to those units that, according to the 2003 financial report, have reached a deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6237	Comrade Lesar, come in!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6238	I've had more reasons prepared to explain this amendment, and I'll only bring up two. This law, Mr. Minister, is being passed and will take effect in March of the month. For a little while you said to the municipalities, cities and counties brought their budgets, their development projects and programs brought in, some of them had already completed the process of possible borrowing. In the course of the financial year, we introduce a new limit to this as set out in point 2 of Article 12, which has already been imposed by the IMF in the past years. This Regulation shall enter into The Constitution is clearly prescribed that units of local and regional reigonal self-government are independent of their own money. I remind you of the second half of 2001, together we were on one television show and you called the decentralisation process a weak step in the decentralisation of the state. With such a provision compared to municipalities, cities and counties, you have made a strong step in further centralising local self-government in fiscal terms. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6239	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. It also decided on amendment number 2 of MPs Zvonimir Mršić because he is completely identical as the first. Amendment number 3. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6240	The government does not accept this amendment because the adoption of the proposed amendment would mean that borrowings beyond the 400 million limit are allowed to be charged to local self-government units, up to an amount of 2.7 billion kuna, which would significantly increase the overall consolidated budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004, and the above-mentioned basis for borrowing contained aid and funds for centralisation of functions. I would like to say and you know well that last year, practically 10 months was not possible to borrow units of local self-government precisely because of the problem of the consolidated budget of the Republic of Croatia. Only after making a decision on temporary financing by the end of the year has the possibility of borrowing units to local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6241	Your Honor, Mr. President, it seems to me that regarding...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6242	Comrade Cain, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6243	It seems to me that, on this amendment, the Government is either wrong or simply mistaken. I will first of all if you allow me and I have no intention of usurping anyone at this time first to quote Article 12(2). The government is hereby authorised here to give consent to borrowing units of local self-government and units of local and regional self-government up to 3% of the total operating income of all local self-government units. We defacto have a situation at the moment or there is such a hypothetical possibility that one local self-government, and that could be the city of Zagreb defacto, will suck up all these 3% of total operating incomes of all local self-government. This is an objective option that can happen to us and I think it is necessary to maintain the principle that has so far existed from 1993 to today, and this specifically means that local self-government can be owed up to the total annual commitments of 20% of total operating income in 2003. So any unit of local self-government from Malo Lanisce in northern Istria that has a budget of less than one million kunas can be owed up to two hundred thousand kunas and not now enter into some hypothetical mass, so that ultimately those who may be in charge and most need cannot obtain a loan that would incentivise them with some kind of municipal or other activity. That I am right to testify and, among other things, the opinion of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, which is on the basis of this thinking of the IDS Club, which is nothing more than the prescribed disposition of the Law on Local Self-Government, which was in force from 1993 to today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6244	You want a vote? Who's in favour of this amendment? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 4. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6245	The government does not accept this amendment because no funds are provided in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6246	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you. Amendment 5, same club of HSP representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6247	This amendment was consummated in the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6248	Are you withdrawing the amendment? It's an amendment that entered the law of execution. Thank you. Amendment 5 withdrawn. Amendment 6 of Honored Representative Walter Drandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6249	The government does not accept because, in Article 32, the Government has submitted its amendment laying down the way and conditions for the return of value added tax to public fire departments, fire communities and voluntary fire companies on the burden of value added tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6250	Representative. He's gone. Well, we vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. And the 7th Amendment of Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6251	The government does not accept and the argument was that there was an explanation of the government's amendment to this Article 37, so I don't think there's any need to explain it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6252	Dear Representative Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6253	I really couldn't figure out what was the difference between the text in the law and this amendment. I will not particularly explain what it means, which is prescribed by Articles 9, 10, 19, 26, 28 and 29, because that's what my colleague Arlovic said on behalf of our club. But I would like to warn you, Mr. Minister, that Article 4th point 7. The Budget Law said that the projection of the budget for the two-year period is brought with the budget, we didn't bring it, you didn't put it that it didn't apply, I think, and I expect that this will have a serious warning and a state audit. Therefore, if you have already talked about Articles 9, 10, 19, 26, 28, 29, you should have also talked about Article 4 because it says: "The budget projection for the two-year period with the budget must be made.". So please vote anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6254	I'm voting Amendment No. 7 of Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft law implementing the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004. Mr Minister, the Legislative Committee had in its report observations and proposals and formulations, observations and proposals to be made in the form of possible amendments in order to show their content. But these are not amendments, it is, given in the form of possible amendments to show their content. It is a series of nomotechnical, nomotechnical alignments and alignment of expressions with the Budget Law. Let it go in the reductive text that I will determine with the consolidated text if there are no content differences. I'd like a brief five-minute recess to be a minister. Here you go. No, you're not going anywhere, please. Five minutes is over. Now it's over for five minutes. I'm voting on the final draft of the law, please who's in favour? It's over, it's gone. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Let's just declare it so. Let's just declare it. I note that with 84 votes for and 30 against the Act on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004, the text proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. ... Before the session is concluded, Mr. Representative Rožić, please be my guest. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6256	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the HSP Club, I'm really sorry to interrupt this idyllic atmosphere with applause. As a club, we did not want to interrupt the budgetary debate, but indeed according to the information conveyed by the uninterrupted public television, dramatic events are taking place in connection with the arrival of Hague indictments, which according to the HTV reporter from this House, the content of scandalous accusations that can be implicated on the entire Croatian people and also the Homeland War. Is it possible, Mr. President of the Parliament, that the Parliamentary rapporteur has more and more precise information than the President of the Parliament and of the People's Representatives? Of course we all at the HSP Club seriously doubt it. Because if the information is incorrect that is transmitted on public television, it can actually be considered a confusion of the public. Therefore, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I ask that either you, as the President of the Parliament, provide us with accurate information or tell us when and how you will convey that information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6257	Thank you very much. A colleague of Caine's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6258	In principle, I join this initiative by Mr. Rozic. However, I want to correct the wrong assumption first. The indictments of the Hague court are not coming, but they have been here for several days and perhaps a week.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6259	Thank you very much. As President of the Croatian Parliament, I have no constitutional authority or right or duty to comment on possible charges when I have them and if I officially find out about them, then I will be able to state my views and opinions. I thank you and conclude this session. All right, all right, here you go, Comrade Racan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6260	Mr. President, Mr. President, I remind you of the practice we had in the Croatian Parliament compared to the notices of this kind. You, at the HDZ Club, were very busy asking the government, especially the Prime Minister to come to the Parliament immediately and give information. I think something similar to that practice could be continued because of continuity this time, and information might come up. In that sense, I don't think it's acceptable for these indictments to be represented in the Croatian Parliament, the government and others to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6261	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Luka Bebić Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6262	I'm correcting Mr. Racan's incorrect claim that the Parliament was informed. In the case of General Gotovina, the indictment was a month earlier known to the government and the Croatian public did not know about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-27-0.u6263	Thank you. I'm closing the session. Please don't do this anymore. Good night. Now, I would like to make clear on a proposal for a united debate on the first three points of the consolidated agenda. Is the Parliament agreeing to have a united debate? Yeah. I ask the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, to plead on behalf of the Government, and all these three draft laws. Here you go.
