ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u23990	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. It's a general assessment and it's often said that organised crime as a new form of crime that, in its covertness and sophistication, I'll only mention the way it goes over the computer, doesn't know the limits. Therefore, the successful fight against this new form of crime that is often referred to as "modern evil" is not known to humanity but also the successful fight depends not only on national legislation and the measures taken in certain countries but also on successful international co-operation. This is witnessed by a number of documents adopted by various international organisations and institutions. One of them is the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. The Republic of Croatia signed this United Nations Convention on 12 December 2000 and the Croatian Parliament confirmed it on 7 November 2002, together with two protocols along with the convention, the Protocol for the Prevention, control and punishment of human trafficking, especially women and children, and the second protocol, the Protocol against the smuggling of immigrants by land, sea and air. However, in addition to this Convention on the fight against organised crime, a third protocol, the Protocol against illegal production and trade in firearms, its parts and components and ammunition was adopted. As stated in this Protocol, its objective and purpose is to promote, facilitate and strengthen cooperation between parties with a view to preventing, eradicating, and combating illegal production and trafficking in firearms, its parts and components and ammunition, which means that, for the purpose of this, one additional contribution to successful cooperation between countries, the fight against this form of crime. We therefore assess and propose that the Government propose and that the Croatian Parliament confirm this third protocol with the above mentioned convention. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u23991	Thank you to the secretary of state. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Fourthly, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol against Illegal Production and Trade in Firearms, its Parts and Components, and ammunition supplementing the United Nations Conventions against Transnational Organized Crime, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 181. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. I find that, unanimously with 106 votes, this Final Bill Proposal was voted in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u23994	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, very brief. In front of you is the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Chile on the Prevention and Control of Abuse and Disposal of Drugs and Psychotropic Substances which regulate bilateral cooperation between the Ministry of Interior, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Chile in the area of the prevention and prevention of drug abuse. So far, there has been co-operation between these two states and ministries within Interpol, and this law practically establishes a stronger, better, more operational co-operation bilaterally in the area of drug abuse and prevention. There is practically a basic act in this Treaty which has already been signed, so I propose that this law on the confirmation of this Treaty be adopted because it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, in order to establish better bilateral relations on the prevention and prevention and control of the abuse and illicit trafficking of intoxicating drugs. An emergency procedure is proposed because it is an interest to establish these relations as soon as possible because the abuse of intoxicating drugs is a general monster that is necessarily fought by all means. I don't know, there was an amendment to the Legislative Committee. There wasn't. Does that mean the board quit? No board, did the board give up? I agree with the amendment both, both first and second, since it is only nomotechnical interventions in the proposal for this Treaty. So both amendments are being adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u23995	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Does anyone want a report from the board? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Gentlemen, MPs, gentlemen, so what, why does someone keep laughing? What's so funny? Final draft law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Chile on the prevention and control of abuse and illicit trafficking in intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 182. The debate is closed. The amendments proposed by the Legislative Committee were accepted by the applicant. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. I find that with 106 votes and 1 against the proposed law, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u23998	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Convention on the Marking of Plastic Explosives for Disclosure was signed on behalf of the Republic of Croatia on 1 March 91, and the Convention itself came into force in 98. It also has its technical annex as its component. The Republic of Croatia stands status in line with other European countries already party to the Convention, many of which are members of NATO and the European Union, which is essential for the credibility of the Republic of Croatia in international relations, mainly in connection with the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the anti-terrorism coalition. The accession of the Convention is a continuity based on the views expressed so far by the Republic of Croatia at international level expressed in participating in the adoption of the Declaration on the Contribution of the Southeast European Countries, the International Combating Terrorism at the Regional Conference in Bucharest since October 2001 and in the Declaration on the International Combating Terrorism adopted by the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers in November 2001 as well as in the signing of the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. By accessing the Convention, the Republic of Croatia provides additional legal importance and the necessity of comprehensive monitoring in the production and transfer of plastic explosives, which has been regulated in the Republic of Croatia so far by the Internal Affairs Ministry rules on how to mark economic explosives. The proposed law confirms the Convention on the Marking of Plastic Explosives in order to detect its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order. The Republic of Croatia is as a country that has passed the Homeland War particularly interested in the consistent application of all legal instruments that contribute to disarmament and control of arms. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia is a party to all relevant conventions and protocols that strengthen the protection of the particularly civilian population. The accession of the Convention is only part of the active measures of defence diplomacy, but this does not reduce the great importance that the implementation of the Convention is on the way to the full integration of the Republic of Croatia into Euro-Atlantic integration. The proposed amendment of the Legislative Committee amends the proposal for this law and accepts it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u23999	Thank you. The committee's reporters? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Furthermore, the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Marking of Plastic Explosives in order to reveal, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 183. The debate is closed. The amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee was accepted by the applicant. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. I find that with 101 votes for and 4 abstentions, without votes against this final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24002	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honourable representatives of the associations of Croatian defenders and members of their families, I wish you a good day, and here I will strive in the time allowed for me by the Rules of Procedure, explain and the intentions of the Croatian Government in the adoption of this law, i.e. the Government as a Proposer and, of course, the most important provisions of this law that is before us. What does the Government of the Republic of Croatia want? In this proposal, i.e. in a proposal which is before you respected ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, you recognize the law that we propose, which we believe to be enforceable, is one of the most important decisions of this government and the ministry as a pronoun, so that the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families can be implemented, of course fair, realistic, in accordance with the possibilities of the Croatian state at this time, and of course we want it to be a law that will guard, to preserve the dignity of Croatian defenders and members of their families. We want that after the adoption of this law that we believe is realistic assumptions of being passed by consensus, the defenders stop being the topic to be talked about in the daily policy purposes, that the defenders stop being the topic on which they will try to gain political points or topics that will try to break out political points in political rivals. We would, of course, like to stop the debate, any debate about how defense attorneys might be privileged, any case to be discussed. We want to create an atmosphere, a climate in Croatian society in which to discuss first and foremost the employment of Croatian defenders, the achievements in terms of employment, the resolution of the most important issues that still bother them, most of them, are housing issues, but above all, and above all, work. And of course, we all want to finally pass together a law that will not be passed if it is adopted by consensus in any subsequent change of government, that is, after the elections, and we want a law that will not be conveniently discussed before the parliamentary elections every four years. This proposal, which came before you from the Ministry of Croatian Defence, has been discussed a lot in the working group that has made the basics and provisions of the law. In this task force, among others with representatives of the Ministry of Defence, together with representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, excellent legal experts who have been dealing with issues and problems of the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families for years were also representatives of associations of Croatian defenders and members of their families on the principle of agreement to be representatives, not representatives of each association, but representatives agreed by representatives, or associations of Croatian defenders and members of their families. We wanted to have as partners who understand the difficulties in which Croatia is located, but also partners who want to do the same, so we wanted to have a real quality law that will be implemented from 1.1.2005 from the first to the last article. We want, of course, to believe all together in this assembly, you respected MPs and respected MPs and restore pride to Croatian defenders. After the adoption of this law, we want the climate in which Croatian defenders will be able to proudly raise their heads on every occasion to point out that they were part of the winning Croatian army that defended and defended Croatia, which freed Croatia and which we are finally, at last, the most grateful, or grateful, because they are most important in this process and without them there would be no free, democratic and independent Croatia. We would, of course, like to remind this occasion of this law also of the Declaration of Homeland War, of the necessity of respecting the Declaration of Homeland War, that every official, but also of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, is obliged to respect the provisions of the Declaration of the Homeland War which says that the Homeland War was just, liberating and defence and in which the aggressors of the Republic of Croatia are clearly cited. So the forces of Serbia, Montenegro and the Yugoslav People's Army. Of course, we must not forget the declaration. Finally, we would also like to remind this law of an important fact at the moment when we are expecting the start of negotiations for entry into the European Union. Yes, if it had not been for Croatian defenders, their courage and their determination would not have even been candidate status for entry into the European Union, there would be no Croatia at the threshold of the negotiations. And now the most important thing about the provisions of this Law, or the most important provisions, or if you want the most important differences between the Law which is still in force from 2001 and the Law that we propose and which we believe will take effect on 1 January 2005. As a time for participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, the time from 5 August 1990 to 30 June 1996 is recognised. This time of participation in the defence of sovereignty is one of the main points that we discussed and agreed with Croatian defenders. Instead of the notion of "the late Croatian defender from the Homeland War", the term "deadly injured Croatian defender from the Homeland War" is introduced. The circle of mortally injured persons extends to members of fire squads and to other persons who, by order of the authorities of the state authorities, have been killed in defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, and this provision allows the recognition of the rights and members of civil protection who were injured in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, as well as persons carrying out intelligence activities in the defence of the sovereignty of Croatia by the authority of the state authorities, and therefore they have maintained sentences of imprisonment outside the Republic of Croatia. The members of the family of the mortally injured Croatian defender from the Homeland War, members of the families of the imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and Croatian defenders with at least 30% confirmed damage. So, from 30% to higher. All the dead lawyers of the Homeland War have the right to be buried with military honors. The prisoners in the enemy camp, i.e. in enemy camps, would return, if you decide to do so, the law prescribed by the 1996 Law to have the status of the Croatian military disabled group 10 with 20% permanent damage to the organism at least. A special story could be told about Croatian defenders who spent the most terrible days and endured the most severe torment in Serbian camps. They were camps like Stajic's to Morinj, and I believe that, ladies and gentlemen, you MPs are familiar with the horrors that Croatian defenders have experienced and I believe you will support this very provision. The pension allowance becomes an integral part of the pension. Mirovina is determined according to the prescribed table of the basis which is an integral part of the Law and which is coordinated twice a year with the increase of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, and not as so far, according to the increase in salaries of active military personnel. It is this provision that the pension supplement becomes an integral part of the pension that is also one of the proposals that came from Croatian defenders' associations. The invalidity pension under the new law would not be tied to the status of a Croatian military invalid, as under Article 78 of the applicable Law. And now something I especially want to warn you about, is a brand-new, brand-new institute, a brand-new provision that has been particularly welcomed at a recent conference of the World Veteran Federation in Zagreb. It is about the fact that this Law introduces a new legal institute of the lowest pensions, protected pensions, for all pensions of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, which is achieved according to the general rule as well as under the new Law, and that 45% of the average net salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia in the year leading to this right. It is, in effect, the fact that for Croatian defenders who, therefore, are 65, are women of the defence age of 60 and do not meet all the conditions under general, or special regulations. We determine under this Act this minimum pension, a protected pension, and that is one of those provisions that, behold, I dare say that this bill in one large part is turning to the Croatian defenders. So those who came back after the war didn't find a job, still have huge employment difficulties today and actually a naked existence. Also, the pension of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War achieved under the general rule means that according to the Pension Insurance Act, 10 to 30% is increased depending on the time of participation in the Homeland War. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, as far as housing is concerned, housing is one of the biggest problems today. It provides local self-government units with the possibility to carry out building facilities for the needs of persons who have the right to provide housing with loans and by established lists, if they have a residence in the area of that unit of local self-government. The number of Croatian defenders, or family members still waiting for housing care, is now slightly smaller than 13 thousand. So, still one huge number, worrying, but I believe that by including local self-government units this way, we can make sure that this process of care speeds up as quickly as possible. Then, customs and tax reliefs for the import of a private car would be recognised, unlike the applicable Law, to Croatian military disabled persons 2 to 4 whose identified damage to the body has resulted in damage to the function of extreme or visual impairment. Namely, the current Law provides for such reliefs for those groups of Croatian wartime wartime invalids with impaired functions only of the lower extremities. That is, the spine which affects the function of the lower extremities, so we are now spreading this right also to damage the upper extremities, i.e. the Croatian defenders who have vision problems or are unfortunately blind. The basis for the establishment of the right to the family disability of members of the family of the dead Croatian defender from the Homeland War who was killed or killed is increasing from a valid 40 to 50%. The invalidity, meaning the family disability, and for the deceased Croatian military invalid, 1st to 4th group, who used the death care and assistance of another person, is increasing from the current 15th to 25% of the base. I would also particularly like to warn of one part of the amendments in this law concerning the children of the dead Croatian defenders. It is our position, the position of this government from the beginning but also the point of view which I believe has been recognizable for many years that, at the place of the late Croatian defender, at the place of the father of the family, the father of the children from whom many were so young when their fathers died that they do not even remember them, there are unfortunately many examples that children were born only after the death of their fathers, so there are many children who defend their brave fathers who are not even able to remember them only in the photographs, that the Croatian state must stand in that place, so we all have to stand. Therefore, we suggest that children, foster parents, and stepdaughters have a family disability during military service, following the termination of regular schooling, or if the service began no later than 12 months after the termination of regular schooling. Children, foster parents, too, would have the right 12 months after leaving school or leaving regular school to receive a family pension. This provision is, in fact, a alignment with the Family Law that says that parents are obliged to take care of him and his existence for another year after completing their schooling. I'm going back to the beginning, to what I was saying, it's one of the mechanisms that we want to bring this law into line with other laws so that it can be fully enforceable. Also, the right to an allowance for children is introduced for children of the mortally injured Croatian defender from the Homeland War, children of prisoners or missing Croatian defenders at the highest planned amount, so those children would not be subject to consensus when it comes to the extra charge, or censorship for forgiveness, censorship when it comes to compensation. Also one provision we have decided on following the difficulties faced by families of imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders, very often in practice, so after their family member son, husband, father, was exhumed, was identified by a very long and unbearable long period of "translation" of the family, i.e. the status of the family of the imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders in the family of the deceased means the identified Croatian defender. We now overcome this by the next provision that members of the family, imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders would receive after the end of the financial fee in the amount of family disability, a family disability in continuity that would be recognised by official duty and not as so far at their request, which means automatically. Because we had absurd situations that, for example, one mother, Kata Šoljic, who lost four sons, had to submit such a request after identifying her son and then wait for the administration or bureaucracy to react. In addition to this provision, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you just a few details about the search for the captured and missing Croatian defenders, but of course also civilians, today we still have 1184 persons, 83% of which are the number of people we are looking for from 91. We are still looking for 13 children, 20% women, 29% older than 60, and among them we are still looking for 20% of the wounded. So far, 140 mass graves have been found in Croatia, at the beginning of that process in 91, we had a list of 18 thousand prisoners and missing persons, and by 95, 7 thousand and 600 were exchanged. Provisions on the procedure for the recognition of the right, introduce some newspapers that have proved necessary in implementing the applicable law, suggest not to obsess over rights based on death, a Croatian defender from the Homeland War who committed suicide as a result of the mental illness caused by participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, to this day, the number of Croatian defenders who have committed suicide is huge, frightening, 1366 Croatian defenders have raised their hands. It is essential to reduce the scope of the right-recognition documentation to speed up the process and make the law enforceable. And also something I especially warn about is changing the relationship with post-traumatic stress disorder. When we decided on the provisions that we are proposing in this Law, we consulted exclusively on the profession, therefore both domestic Croatia and world experts dealing with post-traumatic stress disorders, but of course above all its consequences. We have decided and I believe that you will respect the decision of the Croatian Government and the Croatian Ministry of Defence, i.e. support better said, in the debate in the Croatian Parliament, so when it comes to post-traumatic stress disorder and its consequences, politics has nothing to say, the profession tells its own, the policy of what the profession says must respect. So we decided that the proper medical documentation for disease and death resulting from illness and suicide caused by mental illness extended from 30 days to 2 years for post-traumatic stress disorder to 10 years and longer with skill very strictly in authorized health institutions. Because that is what the profession says, this provision was particularly welcomed at the World Veteran Federation conference I mentioned and held several days ago in Zagreb, which was attended by representatives of veterans from 21 countries from 3 continents. Unfortunately, the post-traumatic stress disorder in the defenders is actually causing a disease of 18 to 40%, the most important factor in all studies to strengthen this disorder, or to strengthen this feeling in Croatian defenders, is the community's relationship with them, all those stories about fake disabled persons, fake Croatian defenders, etc., I warn suicides 3 to 5 times the rate especially in older groups of Croatian wartime wartime disabled. We also suggest that this Act recognises the right to medical and physical rehabilitation of all Croatian military disabled persons from the Homeland War, we propose to extend the deadline for the submission of requests for the status of Croatian military disabled on the basis of diseases 12 months after the entry into force of the Law and we also propose that we change the fact that Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families from all over Croatia come to the Ministry, unfortunately there are examples of people arriving at four o'clock in the morning because they have come from afar, waiting for the opening of the Ministry's door, to resolve their question or simply to get some answer that they have been waiting for a long time. We suggest that things change so much that we go to meet the Croatian defenders and not wait for them to come to the Ministry's door. In this regard, we propose professional and legal assistance to Croatian defenders and members of their families. To enable regional units established in every county and city of Zagreb, so that future users of laws and laws, i.e. the rights of this Law, come faster and easier to get information and to deal with the problems and issues that bother them. It is also possible to initiate a administrative dispute and to resolve which case is returned to the re-trial of the first-degree body. And also important, the transitional and final provisions foresee the translation of recognised rights only if it is more favourable for the user. I'd like more ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, if time allows me to tell you a few more details. Five more minutes, thank you very much. A few data that I trust will help you when you decide on certain provisions of this law that we propose. Let's say when he spoke to one-time financial aid to the Croatian defenders. I must inform you that there has been an enormous increase in the number of requests for one-time assistance. Which in itself says a lot. So it says that a large number of Croatian defenders live extremely hard. This number rose by an incredible 1260% compared to last year. The number requires one-time assistance, when Croatian defenders at the edge of existence do not know how to overcome this situation and how to actually survive by tomorrow. So 1260% is a number that is really worrying. So, compared to last year when 335 thousand 502 kuna was paid for this purpose, we have so far paid a million 171 thousand 616 kuna and 30 limes. And the pressure's getting bigger every day. This information please be one of the data when you consider provisions such as the introduction of this guaranteed minimum pension which will, one day, enable the Croatian defender to be so secure. And I'd also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, something about what we've done so far in the Ministry's work. So far, the Croatian government has discussed Croatian defenders specifically three times as a special topic. As you know, by amending the existing law twice on two occasions, we abolished the so-called. The famous translation of a procedure that Croatian defenders considered humiliating. I, in my decision, abolished that famous MMPI2 test for Croatian defenders suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder. We also decided at the Government to reprogramme the loans of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which many Croatian defenders have brought to a very difficult situation, many have rated them as a noose around their necks, we have reprogrammed them for the next five years. We have reduced the price of the apartment by 30% in areas of special state care and in cities, or places with less than 10,000 inhabitants, finally resolved before the adoption of this law the status of the carer, or nurse for the most difficult 100% disabled in the Homeland War, and there is finally no problem about it anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you on behalf of the Croatian Government and on behalf of the Ministry to which I am headed on behalf of my associates to support this law. I think we have a great chance, given the debate and the support of the Law on Committees to pass the Law with general agreement, this would mean a normal life for Croatian defenders and members of their families, life without earthquakes, without market. And of course, I invite you at the end of the debate, that is, when we all speak together in this debate which is obviously going to be permanent, let us think about these 1366 Croatian defenders who have raised their hands to themselves, often not satisfied with the feeling of humility, insult and abandonment. So let us think, at last, about all of them, about their desire and their desire when the dove often went to defend Croatia and finally think about Croatia as Croatian defenders wanted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24003	I would like to thank the Vice President and the Minister. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on War Veterans, president of the Committee, the respected representative of the Government of Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24004	Dear Mr. President, Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Council for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament at its 10th session held on 2 November 2004, discussed the proposal for a Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament. The Committee considered the proposal of the Law as a parent body in accordance with Article 81. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Committee meetings were also attended by representatives of associations from the Homeland War. At the creation of this Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families according to the proposings, the working group began working at the beginning of the year. The group was involved in the work and representatives of the associations produced by the Homeland War. The basic intensity was to propose an enforceable and real law that would not be a wish set, but a real possibility for the Croatian state. The implementation of the new law from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia will require about 3.65 billion kuna per year, i.e. 80 million kuna more than the applicable law. The proposed law recognises some new rights in force, introduces a minimum pension, an age pension increased to supplement depending on the time spent in the Homeland War, and returns some of the rights prescribed by the 1996 Law. They are detailed between the bill of law and the applicable law. In principle, the majority of the members of the Committee and the present representatives of the associations welcomed the proposed solutions, with the conclusion that in the past few months, much has been done to improve the status of Croatian defenders both through amendments and additions to the current Law and through the return of dignity to Croatian defenders. The need to pass this Law is stressed by consensus of all political parties in the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the details of the draft law requires that the following comments, proposals and opinions be drawn up. In the definition of Croatian war defenders from the Homeland War Article 2(1), members of the armed national protection squads were introduced, and the possibility that Croatian wartime people with disabilities from the Homeland War rights could also be realised by members of the fire departments and civil protection as a result of the wound and injury, which could lead to an increase in the number of Croatian defenders and rights consummations under the Law. It should be considered to prescribe the rights of those categories of persons through a special law, for example, the Law on War Participants. Members of the National Protection of Rights should be bound by continued participation in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia or on the front line of the battlefield. The members of the National Guard Assembly should also be listed in the field of taxation in addition to the members of the Armed Forces. The status of the volunteers of the Homeland War Article 2(3) and the status of prisoners Article 4(1) should not be bound by a time limit of one hundred or three days, as someone could have suffered immediately after inclusion in the Homeland War or experienced permanent health consequences if he had spent only one day in captivity. A more appropriate time to determine the duration of the Homeland War than prescribed by the 1996 law, i.e. The period from 30 May 1990 to 30 June 1996 for the reason that the first Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from 1993 prescribed this period and this proposal would also ensure compliance with the applicable Law on Defence, which provides for such a period of Homeland War. Consider the possibility of expanding the health care of Croatian defenders and outside the framework prescribed by the general law and regulations on the basis of it and knowing about the alarming health status of Croatian defenders. Liberation of the payment of the participation provided for in Article 11(2) for all Croatian wartime wartime people from the Homeland War I to the IX. the groups, or between 100 and 30%, are contrary to the current provision of the Health Insurance Act, which frees all Croatian war people from the Homeland War from the payment of participation. The release of the participation of all Croatian defenders due to a worrying picture of their health status should also be considered, allowing for the right to a family pension and widows of the dead Croatian wartime wartime disabled from the Homeland War of I. Until IV. a group that has used an allowance for the care and assistance of another person and died of the resulting wound, injury or disease obtained in the defense of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia if they cannot achieve that right under the general rule. The lowest pension prescribed in Article 31(4) should not be less than 60% of the average salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia. Equalise the legal position and reception of family members who have begun to benefit from the entry into force of the applicable law because they have up to 50% lower retirement base compared to those family members who have done so under earlier laws. Again, there is a difference between people with disabilities and family members in the amount of pensions but this time not because of the cause of injury, injury or illness, but with the basis of belonging to the Croatian Army troops, the Guard or reserve units. In Article 33(3), paragraph 3 is amended as from 31 December 1995 and in order to comply with the period of the Homeland War as set out in Article 2(2) of the Law. In addition, Articles 14 and 21 should increase participation rates in the Homeland War in accordance with the new timing for the duration of the Homeland War, which is longer than 60 months. The right to pay for children also prescribe for children of the deceased Croatian defender. In Article 35, which provides for the right to employment to prohibit the cancellation of competitions where the candidate is elected by the Croatian defence attorney who has filed an appeal because the same is the legal provision that has been observed in practice. In the part of the bill, where housing is prescribed, it is possible for Croatian defenders to buy the apartment with one payment or to become owners of apartments so that they do not have to wait 20 or 30 years for the loan to be paid. In Article 60, which prescribes customs and tax reliefs, consider the possibility of re-allocation or re-importing cars for those Croatian wartime wartime people from the Homeland War whose car serves as an orthopedic aid and the resulting total damage caused by a car accident. Also consider the possibility of prescribing a single right to import cars without paying customs and tax for all those Croatian defenders who did not consume this right, given the fact that customs duties on imports of cars produced in the European Union countries are not paid. In Article 63, which provides for the release of payment of court, administrative and public-book fees, the decision of the applicable law should be maintained because otherwise the rights will be reduced in such a way that users of the rights are released only in the course of the exercise of the right under the proposed law. The bill did not address the problems of members of the Croatian Defence Council and, knowing of the problem of partial solution, some rights were translated and some should not have found an appropriate solution for all members of the Croatian Defence Council, not waiting for a bilateral agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina for many years. Consider the possibility to consume certain rights with the basis of the benefits, a dual or one-time internship and before retirement, and also to enable people who volunteered to join the Homeland War as pensioners to exercise some of the rights under the law, for example the possibility of choosing military or civilian pensions. After the debate was held, the committee unanimously decided to propose the following conclusions to the Croatian Assembly: - The proposal for a Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families is accepted; - Any objections, suggestions and opinions made in the debate to refer to the applicant for installation in the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24005	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports to explain the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24006	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Vice President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament at the 14th session held on 3 November 2004 discussed the proposal for a Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families with the text of the draft law in the first reading of P.Z. 180. The Committee considered the law as an interested working body pursuant to Article 77. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In his presentation, the proposing representative pointed out that the proposed law returned some of the rights that had been abolished by the 2001 law and that some new rights for defenders from the Homeland War were recognised. The proposed law avoids the collection of a series of inaccessible documents for achieving the status of Croatian wartime wartime invalid, Homeland War defender and all in order to reduce status-rights recognition procedures as well as further traumatising Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of the family of the late Croatian defenders. A special emphasis was placed on the most important differences between the proposed law and the 2001 law, such as the definition of who is considered a Croatian defender, the time of participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, instead of the concept of the late Croatian defender, the concept of the death-injured Croatian defender, the recognition of the status of defenders of Civil Protection, National Protection, the coverage of works of health care costs, the new legal institute of the lowest pension, the deadline for the application for recognition of the status of Croatian wartime invalid on the basis of disease 12 months after the entry into force of the law and a series of other new rights. After the presentation of the representatives, the debate included most members of the board, noting that the proposed law corrects injustices and regulates the status of Croatian defenders and the recognition of certain status rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of the families of the dead Croatian defenders. In particular, the fact that all associations of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War participated in the preparation of the proposed law and that they were satisfied with this and that it would be good to pass the law by consensus. As a special question, how many Croatian defenders from the Homeland War could be asked and, following the explanation of the proposing representatives, it was pointed out that the competent ministry should pay particular attention when determining the number of Croatian defenders. After the debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose the adoption of the next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. The draft law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families is hereby adopted. Second, all comments, proposals and opinions submitted in the debate will be forwarded to the applicant in order to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24007	Thank you very much. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, Mr Mark Turic, to submit a report. I'm opening a debate on behalf of the Clubs. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Darko Milinovic on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Union's Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24008	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Government, the Honorable Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, especially Mr. Beštek, advisor to the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen, and it is my special honor to welcome the representatives of the Associations of the Homeland War, the people who at that most critical moment in the creation of the Croatian State were ready to lay down the most sacred one on the altar of the Croatian Homeland, their life. Well, now that I mention it, then I must say that even here in this assembly there are people who were willing to do the same thing on the front line of the battlefield and on my left and on my right, of course, and people sitting in the middle of this chamber. And there are also people sitting here who, with their wise political decisions at the time, were or were very important influencing the process of creating the Croatian state. We have before us a new Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families. At the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community, we also hold that it would be good to have this Law, as the Deputy Prime Minister mentioned, that this Law be passed by consensus here in the Croatian Parliament. Why the consensus? Because a good law must have a basis, or condition of conduct, and it seems to me that at first it would be a good idea to be a general consensus when adopting this Law. Why do we at the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community think it is necessary to amend the current Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence? It is not only because of the 155 amendments that the Croatian Democratic Community has made to the existing Law, it seems to me only one, but I hope that my debate will not cause too much controversy and that it will not be the subject of any division during today's debate in the Croatian Parliament. But I must say that the reason why we're changing this law is because let me put it this way, the clumsy attitude of the former coalition government towards the Croatian defenders, the victims of the Homeland War. Why am I saying that? At the time of the pre-election campaign in the parliamentary elections, we did an analysis where we came to the conclusion that in 2000 some words such as “crime, arson, crime, combatants for privileges” were mentioned too much with the name “Croatian defender” and with the name “Domovinski rat”. I am not one or I am not one of those who called the former government anti-Croatian. I am not that opinion and I think that any authority and Ivica Racana and Ivo Sanader is Croatian government, and the former coalition government has seen Croatia's development in one direction but it was not anti-Croatian, I am convinced of that, and the government of Ivo Sanader has seen the development and development of Croatia in the other direction and is also a distinct Croatian government. So let me also mention that I may personally be most in pain by the same clumsy attitude of the Croatian government towards those spectacular events in Gospić when there was too much force and too much theatre and there was too little sensitivity. Well, I, too, and I often mentioned this time to the authorities responsible for this theatre but in front of the county prison, I told the County Prison in Gospić I told my friends who were then detained and who were all later legally released or not launched, that day who was detained, or the trial was not initiated, and I told them in front of the court, if you are guilty you will answer and that is how the Croatian defender must behave. The same example is, perhaps again, I stress that you do not get me wrong, the clumsy relationship of the former coalition government towards the defenders and the translation and signing of the loyalty of certain associations of the Homeland War because this signature was guaranteed to take part in the state budget. And in my opinion, it wasn't good for us at the Croatian Democratic Community Club. However, in order to put a weight on the other hand, I will also mention the past HDZ power which may have been preparing the Law on Croatian defenders more emotionally because such times have been approached by this Law and perhaps it was part of the Law, let me also express myself as a privilege for Croatian defenders. But it was such a time and probably the HDZ government had some kind of more emotional approach when it came to making these laws, but later it turned out that it was easy to make such a law, but it was difficult to implement it in practice. And now, finally, to say something about the current law on the rights of Croatian defenders and what we believe to be at the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community may be the most important thing is that he is the one to be implemented. Both my party and the government whose head Ivo Sanader is also named in this House where, where the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers is with which you waved at pre-election meetings at the time of the parliamentary elections or at the time of the election campaign. However, we also learned something from the mistakes of the former government, we had prepared this Law but we did not work out this Law to the full with associations of those who came from the Homeland War. And maybe those first meetings that the Deputy Prime Minister had with the associations of the Homeland War they said we wouldn't meet. However, very quickly again and work on the consciousness of the Croatian defenders and we saw together with them what is possible in the proposed Law and what it is possible to install that he, as I said at the beginning, would be implemented. And after a few dozen meetings, I think we've encountered a large or quite large percentage of consensus with the organizations of the Homeland War, but the way these meetings were without a fig in the pocket. I must say here on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club that part of the demands of some small, small part of the associations of the countries' war and is not accepted. I also attended a meeting when some representatives of the home war associations asked that the lowest pension be 60% of the average net salary. Without the figure in the pocket, it is responsible that if we install it to allow such a law to be just a nice letter on paper and that financial opportunities, today's financial opportunities of the Croatian state are not such as to be able to meet this requirement and the other one to enable all defenders to import cars with certain customs privileges and this would be too burdensome for the state budget and, therefore, without the figs in their pockets, it is clearly stated that such things cannot be incorporated into the applicable or proposed Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families. We, too, at the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community, hold that this law is not God's day and that perhaps in a year, two of them cannot change a bit. The moment the finances in Croatia are allowed to do so, of course. And when I was saying that one of the basic preconditions for this law to be enforceable, and not to mention the taxing vice president of the government has said what this law brings from the new definition of Croatian defenders, the duration of the Homeland War, the release of participation and so on, I think it would really be good to agree on this good law, and it seems to me through committees and debates carried out in committees that, with little goodwill, this law will be passed by consensus, and by consensus, for the reason that it would oblige us, or any future government, whether it be the left or left center, whether it be the government of the right, right or the right center, this law would actually be guaranteed that any future government has a strong obligation to implement this law. I say I did not want to list on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club all these proposals, new proposals or differences in new proposals compared to the old proposals. From all of this said Club of the Croatian Democratic Community will of course support this new Law on the Rights of Croatia, on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families and once again call for consensus when adopting this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24009	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivica Pančić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24010	Mr. President, although I warmly welcome most of what my colleague Milinovic said, I would still correct it in one segment, and I would like it no longer to be mentioned because of the new policy and HDZ. And this is the indictment of the former authorities for a clumsy attitude towards Croatian defenders in light of all those charges and events in 2000, 2001. It was then called the criminalization of the Homeland War. This collaboration with the International Court of Justice in The Hague. We see back these few months eight Croatian generals ended up in The Hague. And I'm glad you're no longer talking about the criminalization of the Homeland War, and we can accept this as being the awkwardness of this government or some, of this party or some other future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24011	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24012	I am correcting Mr. Milinovic's incorrect claim that the 1996 Law had a privilege. Namely, the Law was adopted unanimously in the Croatian Parliament on 13 December 1996. I, as president of the task force who did this Law, responsibly claim that there was no privilege because there was no, we know what a privilege is. Privilege is something that has been achieved against the law. And it's not a privilege for the state to take care of the children of the dead defenders. It's not a privilege if a 100% disability is entitled to a pension. So be careful what you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24013	HSP club. Dear Representative Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24014	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government, esteemed co-workers of the vice president, colleagues and colleagues. We recently held in the Croatian Parliament a debate on the bill of the same name which was the proposal of the Croatian Party Club of Rights which in some way announced this debate which will obviously have this time according to what we have information over 50 reported for the debate, which will continue, and we hope through the debate we will look for as best possible. It is never easy to talk about the rights of Croatian defenders, and at the same time not to give political evaluations about this matter although here in the opening words of the Vice-President of the Government it is said that everything should be done so that the position of Croatian defenders would not be the target of politicisation, and that is what it is at this point, I would say, especially after the presentation and fellow Milinovic is difficult to avoid and not give some political evaluations about this matter. Because often in politics it can be used by the people: "when a rabbit is forced to be able to cast out foxes" or that they often have things, they usually have their own face and face. There have been a lot of speeches here in the opening statements on the return of dignity to Croatian defenders, on the return of the rights of Croatian defenders, and as my speaker said just before that even during the election campaign, a real analysis was carried out in the ruling party today, which should be done to change the relationship and attitude towards Croatian defenders. And I would like to emphasise on behalf of the Croatian Party's Club of Rights, when we talk about the status of defenders that we, with full respect for the weight of the problem whenever we talk about this problem, are more resentful of their relationship with them, I would say because of the possible awkwardness of the revision, about bureaucratic harassment than the reduction of material rights. So that's what we resented the last government and we repeat it today. These defenders created the Croatian state, and they were rarely marginalized, humiliated, far from 90 years of privatisation because they were on the front lines and most of the time Croatian defenders are poor. He's the kind of defender today, so he's doing a little bit better today, but since we've already opened a partial story about the dignity of defenders in the Homeland War, then I have to say apropos what my colleague Pancic said about us in Croatia that the party of rights in our assessment has not stopped the criminalization of the Homeland War. Whether in part of the media or because of a practice that continues, and when we talked about the relations with The Hague court a few years ago, how we can talk about the rights of Croatian defenders and the dignity of a general Gotovina, for which the monetary reward for his capture is still in effect. How can we talk about the rights of Croatian defenders when it is being prepared and a law that will make it impossible for his family to have his property. Therefore, some of the generals are also in The Hague today, as are all Croatian defenders. Therefore, we are talking about their dignity, not about material rights, but about a fact that can neither be bypassed in the Croatian Parliament today. The winners of a fair war are often in a worse position than those who have defeated as aggressors. No matter how much we keep quiet about it, no matter how much we justify it to this or to those or to any higher interests. So I get off the subject of dignity and let's get back to the bill of law on how status and rights of defenders or fighters have been resolved. I'm not going far across Europe. I'm just going to the premises of the former Yugoslavia. So mainly according to those countries where the conquerors of the Croatian horde came from, and who just won the Croatian defenders. Examples in Serbia and Montenegro are the great rights of their participants in the country's war as they called it. So these are the rights at the level of NOB members' rights. The second thing is how many they had as much as they have financial opportunities, the worse the standard of living, but they're right to say at the level of those who had NOB members. And those of us who have already had a few years well know what those rights were. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Federation has strong rights as members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Army. These incomes are lower in the after-worker amounts than our defenders. But compared to average wages and standards, they're far higher. The largest rights are given by members of the army of the Republic of Srpska. These rights of their fighters are far the greatest. And most of the rights that our defenders have in Croatia are mostly members of the Croatian military disabled, the ap-raves that members of the Serb Republika Srpska Army have compared to the standards they have, our defenders can only dream. They've got the rights defenders having all the warriors. Slovenia had a small war but they have very large rights. In Croatia, there have been years of delusions, which is also the attitude towards Croatian defenders that defenders have some great rights. Some in Croatia had only Croatian wartime military disableds, such as pensions, disability, housing care. But Croatian war soldiers disabled in Croatia are 35,000, while the defender is according to different lists. According to the register of the wounded so far, there are about 400 thousand who are practically only entitled to declare that they are entitled to the right of advantage in non-practical employment. They had abolished the privilege of importing cars, they had health care and freedom from partition. Under the current law, they don't. Today these rights have been abolished and, despite promises, they will obviously not be returned. The bill does not foresee this, except for some categories but not for all Croatian defenders. So it only refers to the disabled of the Homeland War. The law ahead of us has long been announced a delay, but here we are finally in front of us. He's introducing some new rights. They need to be highlighted. It is a true volunteer and defenders' right to the lowest pension or addition to an age pension. But when? If they are 65 years old, the average majority will be able to use it in 20 years. It increases some rights of minimum, disability to certain categories, child benefit then extends the circle of users, the armed provisions of National Protection, Civil Protection, the extension of the deadlines for submission of applications, and all of this blows and opens up the possibility of inflation of the number of defenders, and thus endangers the rights of the present who are also not at the level of those that I have mentioned the rights of members of the population similar to those in neighbouring Croatia. The area defense offices are returning, which is what we in HSP are assessing with a positive shift. However, some of the rights that exist in the applicable law adopted by the last parliamentary majority have been abolished. It is that members of the family of prisoners or missing Croatian defenders lose the right to provide housing to the advantage of accommodation in the student countries, to free textbooks, to the advantage of employment. Also, this Law, which has been proposed to us, is divided among the disabled, because Croatian wartime disableds 20% lose the right to freedom of participation, are now subject to the Health Insurance Act and this legislation is lost by a specialist, which we find totally unacceptable. Advantage is being lifted for defenders buying agricultural land, and for unemployed defenders thousands and thousands and many are in the process of buying land. At the same time, it is being prepared and sold to the parties under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. However, as we see it as a major contribution to this new law, this is the right to military honor and funeral costs for all Croatian defenders, because so far only Croatian wartime disabled people have had the right to do so, and that is a good decision. So, grudges. The law is not transparetane, the calculation is too complicated, with doubts and vague definitions. There is a danger that they are again produced in large numbers of administrative disputes. The law does not restore the rights that existed under the 96th Law. These are the benefits of importing cars for those who have not exploited them, and there are no participations for all defenders. The law continues, as everyone has so far, to share defenders, for example, Croatian wartime wartime disabled by the way they became disabled. In the light of the law, there is no stimulation that would allow representatives to compare. It is very important to stress that the status of the Croatian Council of Defence is unresolved, and part of it benefits the rights of today but part of them. The Law of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina gives the Croatian Defence Council the right no later than 31.12 next year or until the agreement of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, if concluded by then to those who did not arrive and had ties and resolved their status in the Republic of Croatia. It is a problem that will sooner or later catch up with the current Croatian government and should be dealt with by this law in the way that it has solved it. I have to call again for not being pleased, but I must follow the practice of Republika Srpska which recognises participation in the territory of the former SFRY and we could apply such a model to our law and thus get rid of all the defenders. If we don't, we'll have a large part of the defence population that won't have that problem solved, which is one big device for thousands of those who fought for Croatian spaces in Bosnia and Herzegovina in such a way that they participated in the Homeland War and defended Croatia by reminding us that I don't have to remind us that it's important to repeat a thousand times, that huge people from Bosnia and Herzegovina came from the beginning of the Homeland War and defended the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, on the Croatian page of rights we support the proposal to pass a new law. But with this content, we are not satisfied and the content of the final bill will depend on us. Because if we talk only about Croatian defenders, so not about disabled people, but about those who are not disabled, we have what rights. Madam Minister, we have a minimum pension for Croatian defenders but then when they are 60, 65, they will be able to achieve it. They have a military internship that they have and now, they have the cost of funerals and military honors so that then they give themselves to them with dignity when they die. Therefore, a bill like this cannot be satisfied. In our first reading, we will support the bill's proposal, but we will make a final decision on the final draft of the law, seeing how the Government will respect the thoughts and remarks that will be heard from us, from our Club and all the other MPs who will have anything to say to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24015	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS Club DC, a respected representative, Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24016	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Homeland War Associations, ladies and gentlemen. We have before us a law that has long been announced, long-awaited, the backbone of all pre-election campaigns and political outsmarts, which refers to the lives of about 400,000 Croatian citizens, so it is no wonder that it serves often for such bad purposes, which is, of course, bad and creates a bad picture of both us and those to whom the law applies. It's a shame. Thank you very much. It is a pity that the Law was not in front of us before the summer break, so we may now have another reading. However, it is important, of course, that we try to reach a consensus with this law, that it is indeed a law that will not change in any subsequent election and that the fate of those 400,000 people will not depend on the political will of the parties that come to power and what is particularly important, that the law be enforceable, and the consensus could indeed follow only if the law is enforceable. I think it's about categories of people who can accept the truth and when they're told there's no money, and what's certainly going to be hard to accept, it's a relief of promises that don't come out later, and so far we've had a few of those laws. I remember, however, the adoption of a 96-year law that was passed by consensus with really great support and public, all political parties, however, it was not enforceable. It took a bunch of documentation to exercise rights, so one of the absurdities that might be good for the public to know that parents and family members each year had to raise a certificate, confirm every year and prove that their father or son had died in the Homeland War. These are indeed great absurdities and offensive facts. It is good to consult associations of victims of the Homeland War, Croatian defenders. There are associations that come forward and say they're not consulted or disagreed. I think there's a possibility that a second reading and a deal can be reached, of course, with a lot of patience. By reading this law, it is clear that some of the promises made by political parties are not included. Of course, because, above all, they are unrealistic because of the budgetary opportunity or the more precise inability of the state, because of the economic and state of the economy, and the aim is social sensitivity, complete concern for the victims of the Homeland War and Croatian defenders, and certainly, and our obligation that arises, and that seems to me to be a fellow Djapic mentioned, or before fellow Milinovic, we must indeed repeat the truth, which is that the defenders do not have any special privileges and do not have any high incomes. That's actually true. In fact, Mrs. Kosor mentioned how many people are asking for day-to-day help. I can indeed say that such demands also appear in the mayor's offices. It is precisely a request for one-time assistance, and local urban, municipal budgets do not have such resources or such opportunities. Here we are last night in the late hours, a defense attorney tied himself up in front of a city administration building in Bjelovre looking for one-time help. Obviously something about laws is wrong. I will try to be concrete by the articles of the law, of course, with the aim of making the law better. Article 2 provides for an extension of the definition of "Croatian defender", however, there are indeed two things that need to be reconsidered. We would support the Committee's proposal, so it does not mean a date from 5 August to 30 June 96, as a given term, but on 30 May 90, so we should go back to that old law, and also in paragraph 3 of the same article where we have the term "Croatian volunteer", I think we should define it, that it is possible to define it more quality and that it is not right to limit the definition to 100 days, because there are unfortunately cases that people within a period of less than 100 days or died, or become wartime disabled. What about them? There is another proposal that is not the HSLS, not mine, but the initiative of the Belarusian HVIDR, which I believe will be discussed by the Deputy Prime Minister, and I think it will be acceptable for both parliamentary representatives and MPs, which is the status of volunteer women defenders. Women didn't have that obligation, and I think it's even less logical to put them among these 100 days. Article 11 refers to the right to cover the costs of health care, i.e. participation. I believe that there will be the most noticeable and that this is an article that will need to be re-evaluated. Namely, there is again a limit of at least 30%. In the last term, we, as a party, have specifically advocated the defences of PTSD and 100% disabled people, where we have proposed amendments to the law and it was one of the few laws that passed no matter what came from the opposition. In fact, if we left the damage to the body of at least 30%, then we would put Croatian defenders who have PTSD in an unequal position. So we hold that this 30% should be reduced to a minimum of 20%, but it would be good to hear what the waist says and to calculate what would actually mean a complete release from participation. Namely, treatment for PTSD patients is long term. That fact should be considered. I want to remind you again of the number of more than 1,500 suicides committed as a result of mental illness caused by participation in the Homeland War. That number should indeed be mentioned even now when it comes to this law, it is a devastating figure that shows that the proper level of care and care for the sick have not been achieved. In addition to financial resources, I think more efforts should be made, that it is possible, to think more about the daily hospitals as one model to help defenders with PTSD, and here I have to say that there is an administration that is slow, which is difficult. I'll give you an example that we've been talking to an assistant more, in Bjelovar, for over a year. It's really amazing, and I haven't been able to find out yet that we haven't satisfied that this is the kind of hospital we get, and we want to finance that project as a city. The idea of a veteran hospital should also be considered as an opportunity to avoid long-term waiting for the order of those with health problems, and defenders are. The proposal is also to consider equating the starting factors for calculating the disability pension. The new minimum pension legal institute will certainly also ask for a review of the proposal. The average net salary in the Republic of Croatia is much more favourable than the budget base because it is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is regularly significantly lower than the regular net salary paid in the Republic of Croatia in the previous year. I also accept the introduction of the right to pay for children at the highest planned amount for children of the dead Croatian defenders, children imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. However, it should be more precise to define the provision of the right to advantage in the employment of children of the dead defenders and of the defenders, because I think we have all warned that they will probably be other colleagues and colleagues, that they were articles that have been systematically avoided because they have been seen as a recommendation that is not binding. In the past few years, we have warned of the fact that neither the government itself nor the local self-government, how we expect someone else to do so, and I think there have been examples with the Parliament itself. Article 46 speaks of, the part that speaks of a housing loan for the purchase of an apartment or a house that the defender himself buys. In particular, a pre-contract on purchases and a maximum of 700 euro per square metre according to the area of the apartment referred to in Article 43 determining the rights. I think that it should be brought into line with the real existing situation because in larger cities, the price is much higher and the question is how much will this article be realized then. Article 59, which refers to the adjustment of the wheelchair apartment, the possibility for Croatian military disabled persons from the Homeland War who are unable to move without wheelchairs and other orthopedic aids, blind disabled persons, to adapt the wheelchair apartment. That's where we keep the obligation to set a deadline. Without a deadline, it can again remain only a recommendation or resolution of a few years. In the article, in the calculation of personal disability, the amount of 115% is the association's proposal to increase to 160% and should be considered. Articles 147 to 162 shall stipulate that, by way of effect of this Act, the translation of the rights recognised under the earlier applicable laws, if it is more favourable for the user. There's a three-year deadline. He's out of interest, we think he's too long, but if he's real, let him stay. It's better to have a real and longer deadline, but if it's possible to shorten it, of course it would be good. So one of the proposals we're going to insist on is the release from participation, and then we're going to support HVIDR's and other associations' views. I must say that we have heard from parents who have expressed dissatisfaction with this proposal, it is hard to say if it is an individual reaction, but it would be good to hear the voice of those people who are not a number of groups, who are unfortunately on their way out. So we suggest that we pass law enforcement without girls' promises, clear and consulting associations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24017	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24018	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is incorrect to say that Mrs Adlesic's 96th law was inconclusive. However, it was implemented in a way that the level of housing was also reached at the end of the 99th year, in a way that the audit was carried out within a month, not three months and that the employment championship was respected. And then HSLS offered the "open door" programme as a coalition partner of the SDP and the 2001 Defence Act was passed and that's why the situation is so.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24019	Thank you. Club. Is there any more time left? Yeah, three minutes. Same on behalf of the HSLS Club DC, respected representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24020	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of defense associations. Here, in a full month for the second time in the Croatian Parliament, we are discussing this important problem, for the first time on the HSP proposal, today on the Croatian Government's proposal. I hope that after these discussions we will all be unique that this law should be passed in consensus, and that the Democratic Centre also joins this call for legislation to be passed in such a way. As far as I know, I followed the press, this bill that is before us is a kind of compromise solution, meaning the promoter and defense associations. It means that we, in some ways, already have one path to go and come to an agreement on this law. This law must not be clearly the law of a political option or several political parties, so this should be the law passed by the Croatian Parliament. Since this is about rights and not privileges and privileges, I believe that we will lead the debate here in a way to safeguard the dignity of Croatian defenders and also not to turn the Croatian public against the defenders themselves, because so far the frequent amendments to the Law on Defence and politicization that we have been aware of have done a lot of damage to Croatian defenders. All games around the defenders have kept Croatian defenders in one continuous war state and I live in the belief that this law will be one concrete step to begin the final implementation of the overall defence population from that war situation and their translation into a peaceful, civil state. Because of what has happened to defenders in recent years, a number of defenders and members of their family have created one uncertainty syndrome, so I recently heard in Slavonski Brod a statement during the debate on this same topic as the defenders themselves, that they were safer at the time of the war than they are now. I believe that's the reaction to their position now. Therefore, on behalf of the Democratic Centre, I also propose that this law be passed by consensus, that it be our law, the law of all of us, and not some of them there. And another thing, to define the rights according to our options. We can bring ideal, prescribe rights, but if they're invaluable, then it's a prelude to chaos, to chaos, and thus deny the defense population. Since I'm running out of time, what I was going to say, I'm going to say in an individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24021	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative, Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24022	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 209 of his colleague applied for a correction in order to cover his own failures in the construction of a 96 law when he was an assistant in the ministry. If the law had been enforceable, he would have probably been implemented. So it's not a correction to an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24023	Thank you very much. This isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I repeat it a hundred times. Reference to Article 109 shall be prohibited. In 209 it is illegal because this article only regulates the institute and not its contents. You, Madam Vice President, claimed that the 96-year law was inconclusive. Representative Pero Kovacevic estimated your claim incorrect. Whether she's correct or incorrect is another thing, but that was your actual claim that the MPs challenged. Therefore, it is not a matter of breach of the Rules of Procedure and let us no longer refer to that Article 209. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24024	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed Vice President of the Government, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Here means for the defenders in 2004 so for this year the budget provides 3 billion 372 million kuna with a rebalance of 3 billion 460. For defenders in 2005, and this will be a direct consequence of this law, it should provide 3 billion 641 million kuna. So it's going to be 180 million kunas more than in 2004 but 823 million kunas more than in 2003. So this 5% is what we're talking about right now. Those 5% on the other hand absolutely agree, there is no need to underestimate, though. Any right to return, which increases, should be welcomed. We're especially at the IDS Club to touch on acquired rights, especially disabled people. And now it doesn't matter if it's the people with disabilities in the Homeland War, whether it's civilian disabilities, whether it's World War II people with disabilities. It is also to be assumed that our budget next year, announced by Minister Shuker, 2005 will be higher by at least 4, realistically by 5 billion kuna compared to this year, in a way that will increase revenues based on VAT, excise duties, profit tax, income tax. For Croatian defenders, it is proposed an increase of 180 million kuna or 5% from this year. I'm not going to step away from the subject if I say that from 4 to 5 billion kuna in 2005, certain funds should be allocated to repaying the debt to the pensioners, but to return to the topic now. No one's clear against the defense attorneys. I'm against the people who worked in warm offices 50 kilometers from the front, treating the defenders. That's what I'm up against. Especially no one is against it, and there are many, thousands of them. Especially no one is against people with disabilities, this country or this country must be permanently grateful to them. Too bad it is not the same way that NOB fighters without which Istria, Rijeka, Zadar, Međimurje, Baranja would never be part of Croatia. In a period of truth, which you must agree with. Between 2000 and 2003, we had three interventions in defence law. First, it was returned to the right that 100% of the Croatian wartime first group with the right to care and help have the help of another person and have this care provider, it was okay, it stopped the possibility of importing cars and it was okay, tractors, trucks, machines, combined that, but cars should not be allowed to import and indirectly increase the external debt of the Republic of Croatia, but for disabled all, for others no. Then some rights have been denied while users are in custody or in prison, e.g. among other people with disabilities, which was extremely illogical and it was corrected. Now let's go in order when changes are due, although we should perhaps talk about a budget projection in a few years, let's see how this is going to reflect roughly on that defence population. The first thing I want to say is that there is a double annual pension income, with an increase in salaries in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, it is no longer defined and no longer coordinated according to the increase in salaries of active military personnel, that is certainly good. A new legal institute is being introduced, the lowest pension on all Croatian defenders' pensions from the Homeland War reached according to the general list as well as under the new law, which is 45% of the average net salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia. That would be about $1.900,00 kuna. Then the basis for determining the right to a family disability, family members, the death-suffering Croatian defender from the Homeland War who was killed or killed, rose from 40% to 50% of the base. Then we have the right to pay for the children, it is introduced for children of the mortally injured Croatian defender from the Homeland War and children of the imprisoned or missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War at the highest possible amount. Then here is the legal medical documentation for disease and death due to disease and suicide caused by mental illness, extended from 30 days to 2 years for PTSD to 10 years, etc. And these are all some solutions that should certainly be welcomed. On the basis of this, we can say that the extended defence rights, despite the fact that these 3 billion 641 million kunas are only 180 million kunas more than was allocated in 2004, but I said that this is even 800 million kunas more than that in 2003. Citing all rights based on damage to the organism, personal disability, care allowance and assistance to another person, orthopaedic allowance, medical, or physical rehabilitation, transportation costs, I don't think it makes sense because I think that relationship is relatively correct for both the former and the current law. I am deeply convinced, and I must admit that I do not know the practice of Republika Srpska, that Croatia has solved this matter in one appropriate way, as perhaps no European country. Unfortunately, we forgot, and I will repeat that, World War II fighters, fighters who were left behind after 91st without anything and that is not fair, and I claim that at least for the disabled of that war, a modus must be found to equalize themselves with the disabled of the Homeland War. Finally, the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor, mentioned among other things the World Veterinary Organization, Veteran Pardon, whose head is Mr. Djuro Boyk, and the basic motto of the veteran organisation is to equalise the rights of all participants of all wars, and in this context I am also referring to this appeal. I claim that we do not have the right to make a distinction between one and the other, because the hand of a partisan who lost it in Cicarija or Gorski Kotar, 43 or 44, is as valuable as the hand of someone who lost it in the vicinity of Vukovar, Sibenik or Gospić. Now is there anything you can do about it? By 2000, nothing had happened, unfortunately until 2003, unfortunately not after that, and I claim that at least the disabled and at least the prisoners of the camp should be resolved. When it comes to this second category, I think they need to be evened out with political prisoners who were imprisoned for political ideas after 45th in Yugoslav case files. I am pleased that this law introduces an opportunity to defile people such as Đura Horaček, Maric Marina, his wife Ljubice, Spernjak, Radanovic, who spent several years, some four, five, six years in Serbian prisons. They were under quotes "JNA officers" but worked all the time for Croatian intelligence services. Đuro Horaček, for example the major at the time of JNA, was in prison until 99th year, since 94th it seems to me or 93th, and in Croatia he lost even his apartment and with his mother and two women living in a room of 20 squares in the Kamanjar refugee center. Marić Marin, who is more or more famous, works, for example, at a pump in Djakova, etc. These people in every country, I won't say they would be heroes, but they would certainly be respected, and in Croatia there is no way to fight for their status. And I don't think that's fair, and finally another category of people. These are fighters, something Mr. Djapic also said, the Croatian Defence Council, who became disabled, and also responded to the war at the invitation of the late President Franjo Tudjman and Gojko Suška. If a man is wounded at the call of the president of this country, this country must take care of him. It doesn't matter what I think of Francis Tudjman's policy to Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, the disabled should be respected, the disabled should be helped. For that, I am sure that I will have understanding and people in Istria and Rijeka because still about 8,000 citizens of my county, citizens, today perhaps more than citizens receive so-called. Italian pensions because these people gained the conditions for retirement in the way they were, among other things, in the Italian army. Clearly, they weren't there on their own terms, but because they had to serve the army, and I'm saying that out of the 8,000 he receives, at least 6 thousand of them, there were at least 2/3 of them in the Partisans after Italy's capitulation of September 43. That's just the way the times were, and that's how it was in these spaces from time 91 to 95. So, I personally condemn a policy that has led to Bosnia and Herzegovina, but people with disabilities from Bosnia and Herzegovina are not really guilty of this, and they need help. This law, I dare say, clearly, is clearly part of a political game. But if that Law helps people, then it's good. This law may also be part of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's pre-election performance. But if this Law or that Law helps the disabled of the Homeland War, at least 5%, and all defenders, because it will have a minimum pension of 45% when they get the conditions then, again, I say, that Law should be supported. How politically honored that will be is now another matter. The IDS will support this, not the presidential candidate, but this Law, but we call on the minister to understand, as she understands, truly understands, that the defence population accepts the conversation and those who are not its electoral elite, and are part of its ministries, and these are the fighters clearly II. World War I. HDZ, although it may have been expected of some others, e.g. Closed a few pages of importance. Let's just say, the Rabbit family case and the IDS insistence, the minority tension, I dare say they're after us. The relationship to The Hague is no longer as frustrating as it was last year when you created that hysteria yourself, but divisions from II. World War II will close when disabled, at least disabled II. World War II equals the disabled of the Homeland War or when, to be morbid, cynical, that population dies. So let us also allow these people of honor in such material security that this does not happen to them. And finally, response to the army, participation in the Homeland War. First of all, it was a matter of loyalty to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia to his country. That's why nobody needs any privilege. Clearly, according to the disabled, everything we have to do to make sure that their sacrifice is in every way possible, under quotes, taken on, and the defenders won't, I won't say, the privilege, the right place, by creating circumstances for their retirement, their pension, no matter what pay costs, will be at least 45 at that time of the average salary, and I claim that this is a major change of law compared to existing legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24025	Thank you very much, colleague. For now, seven corrections to an incorrect quote. 8, I hope that's the final number. Let's take it in a row. Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24026	Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to correct Mr. Cain's incorrect claim that he claimed he wasn't taking care of the NOB fighters. That's not true, but there are over 120 grand in retirement income, in the Pension Fund Office 45 thousand fighters by the age of 43, 38 thousand 43-45 fighters and other victims of war and paydays, Mr. Cain. And that's a total of 128 grand. That's true. Take out and look at the statistics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24027	Thank you very much, colleague Djakic. Please don't get out of the bench because we won't be able to do that. Next up is representative Pejo Trčević. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24028	Madam Vice President, and here I am, too. In fact, we are not discussing here today some law on NOB fighters, but it is explicitly about the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, and we know that the Homeland War is time-defined. So Mr. Cain's obsession with NOB fighters can be resolved by a legal proposal that will refer him to the debate in the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24029	My fellow representative, you have not corrected the incorrect assumption. I should have warned you. We have a deal with the Bureau of Parliament, the extended presidency to try to work toleranceally. Of course, we will be able to do that if we still follow the existing Rules of Procedure, so please. Next up is a colleague, Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24030	I give up, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24031	Thank you very much. Next up is Nikola Sopcic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24032	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'd like to correct my colleague Cain's inaccuracies. It's also related to II. a world war that ended nearly 60 years ago. The fact is that under the previous point we had a debate on the subject because we see in the report that NOB members are receiving a pension under more favourable conditions, and at this point they have 68 thousand 206...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24033	I'm asking nicely for a correction, a correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24034	... 206. So it's not true his claim that nothing has ever happened to NOB members before.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24035	Thank you very much. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24036	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Cain said "the veterinary organization of the world". I'm correcting, so we need the World Veteran Organization, and I'm asking Dr. Herman Vukusic to show later on whether it's a pure frodistic gesture.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24037	Thank you very much. I don't really have the right to comment, but this has been very useful. Let's take it in a row. He's a colleague of Markovanovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24038	Madam President, I am correcting the false allegations that colleague Cain claims that members, or those who are receiving a pension from Italy, were not at war by their own free will. Maybe a small part, but I doubt it. It reminds me overwhelmingly that even the Montenegrins were not of their own free will the other day and everyone else. Apparently, wars are fought in a strange way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24039	My colleagues and colleagues, I'm asking you nicely to stick to the Rules of Procedure. My colleague, Ruža Tomasic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24040	Dear Madam Vice President. I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that Mr. Cain has repeatedly reiterated that the defenders are privileged against veterans II. World War I. That's simply not true because veterans II. World War II could be seen with two witnesses, and they got everything they'd been receiving for 45 years. And even the dead, even the cargo in some Dalmatian places, were retired, while our defenders today, some have not yet received the status of defenders who are still wounded and disabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24041	Thank you very much. A colleague of Zdenka Babić-Peteričević, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24042	Madam President, as much as you will remind me, but I point out the reality today we are talking about a bill on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, and not on the fighters of the People's Liberation Fight, they lived well for 50 years, they could do something for their old age, and they had no right to live for 50 years by those who were in the Croatian Army or lived well, were imprisoned and killed, perhaps even those who filled the Croatian pits.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24043	Please, colleagues, of course you haven't corrected the incorrect assumption that you immediately said that at the very beginning I'm going to have to make warnings. Of course, some learn faster than others. Information. In accordance with Article 207(2), The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for 10 minutes in 12 hours 48 minutes, so you can no longer register. Let's move on with the debate. I apologize, the Deputy Prime Minister came forward after a heated correction of incorrect allegations, so please allow my colleague Babic to allow others to listen to the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24044	Thank you, Madam Vice President, I will not now abuse your time and, of course, I will not comment on everything that the club representatives have presented so far, I will do so after all the clubs present their representatives' views, or the club's views, but I have only reported to deny one part of Mr. Cain's exposure. In the part where he said it was part of my pre-election performance, therefore this Law, the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and members of their families, I vigorously reject such a claim and, please, I would like to thank Mr Kramarić for believing me, that with this information, that they do not deal with this position. It is about the fact that I am doing my job, I am the Minister of Croatian Defence and Vice-President of the Government, the Law began to work in February of this year, and I cannot because of the fact that I have the honour of being a candidate in the upcoming elections, I cannot lock my ministry, I cannot stop working on big projects and so can the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. The law will believe very quickly in the second reading, will be passed and will begin to apply 1. 1. In 2005, and ultimately for a year, two people will not remember who else was headed by the ministry at the time the good law was passed. Therefore, please once again it is not part of any pre-election campaign but of a regular job that is being brought into the first year of office, thank God the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24045	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Let's move on with the debate on behalf of the Clubs, Club LIBRE, Representative Jozo Radoš please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24046	Dear Madam Vice-President, Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Government, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen representatives of associations, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I would like to look back on behalf of the Club LIBRE on these fundamental objectives that the Minister of the State stated when she represented the Law on behalf of the Government as a Proposer, which is that this Law wishes to restore pride to the Croatian defenders, a law that will safeguard their dignity and the Law that will make defenders not subject to daily policy. When it comes to the pride of Croatian defenders and their dignity, it is likely that everything that has seemed for the past 15 years has been deliberately or unwittingly unable to endanger the pride of Croatian defenders. What they have done with their decision to defend their country is beyond any policy and probably the largest majority of Croatian defenders have not lost their pride because of being a Croatian defender. Therefore, this cannot be returned and no law should be returned because it is not lost, but it is true that over time there has been bitterness among some part of the Croatian defenders, but again it is a question of a broader context of social processes and yet cannot be returned by one law, which is the fact that there are those who have never seen the battlefield among the defenders, that there are also those who did not get hurt in the battlefield or in the way that the law predicts that there was war and war profiteers, people who, while others were bleeding, have become rich, have closed down factories, so when the defenders returned home they no longer found not only factories, but also their jobs, that some over the night they got rich, finished colleges, get apartments, get factories, and so on. This, of course, leaves bitterness with one part of Croatian defenders but I am convinced that all political mistakes and any attempts of political use will not be able to question the pride of Croatian defenders, their dignity and self-respect for having decided to be Croatian defenders, participate in one historic process, the chance thus also being seen which is provided very rarely because the state does not create 100 times but only once. As far as political use is concerned, there is, of course, something can be done, it would be good for Croatian defenders to stop being subject to political debates, to get or lose political points on the subject of Croatian defenders, but it depends on us, it depends on politics, it depends on the government, the parliament, the opposition, the authorities and, of course, it is a very important issue and, of course, if it is the subject and content of what will be the next week's adoption of this Law then there is no discussion. Under such circumstances the consensus will not and cannot be. Some of the signs of today’s return to other times, though moderately speaking, already find it difficult to avoid political debates. I don't think we've crossed the line yet today, but, of course, many times we've crossed the line of some normal controversy about these issues, so, of course, we should be afraid that this time too, if it happens, it's going to be a political use of this issue that should actually be a matter of every policy and not a question of disputes, then of course, there will be no consensus as it was when the last law was passed, then of course it won't be possible to avoid further politicisation and political use, regardless of what side it came from. I am saying this because what is part of our responsibility, we cannot return those times, those bad things that happened at the time and after the Homeland War that really caused the indignation of Croatian defenders and all Croatian honest citizens, but maybe after 10 or 15 years we can approach this topic in a way that we do not politicise it, that we really achieve a consensus, so that in the future, it avoids repeated, or return politicisation to call it that. When it comes to the Law itself, it should be said that this Law has been the subject of frequent changes, it can be a confirmation of its politicization. In only three years, the law has experienced four changes, this is the fifth change in the form of a new law, and only this year two amendments and the third touch of the law with this bill. In itself, it is not only the legal uncertainty of the rights acquired by this Law, but it is probably also talking about the content of a political law that this law should not actually have in itself. I would really like to warn you about one very important thing here, which is the cost of 3 billion and 641 million kuna. Costs that, as one of the MPs said, are 800 million kunas higher than those of 2003. It could be a political attitude. The cost itself is no problem if it's a major national issue, then it's not big money. But you should know that it is a great money for all those obligations that Croatia is waiting for. That's what I'm warning you. And the greatest shame would be that this money cannot be secured, so that the rights that will be recorded in this Law cannot be realised. In this sense, it would be good if the Ministry had presented us with the number of Croatian defenders, the criteria by which these defenders acquired the right status of Croatian defenders, the same for Croatian wartime wartime disabled persons, and also the projection of the increase in the number of Croatian defenders and Croatian wartime disabled persons by the basis of this Act. That's very important. It is a very important issue, important and for the sake of the country's political stability, it is not about small money, and it would be good to make it very clear there. That's why I should expect this law to happen in the second reading to have that analysis. The number of Croatian defenders and how many Croatian defenders will increase by the basis of these new provisions, i.e. the extension of persons who will be able to obtain the status of Croatian defenders. As far as the principles are concerned. So I'm not going in here in particular. I'm going to talk about principles, and that's the fundamental point of view of LIBRA, that defenders don't really want anything special from the state. The defenders who came out of the war only want Croatia to be a modern state and that they can live well as equal citizens in that modern state. They're not asking for anything else, most Croatian defenders. As for Croatian wartime wartime disabled people with disabilities, they should be given everything that the Republic of Croatia can give to the disabled without jeopardizing its normal functioning. And in that sense, the question is, is it 100 or 200 million kuna in these circumstances not a crucial question. But an important third principle on which, in our opinion, this issue should be resolved, which is that Croatian defenders and Croatian military disableds are indeed those who are right, this status one and the other uncontested acquired. It's important not only for money, and less for money, more for those people's feelings that they've done something big and that this is what's happening to inflation that doesn't put this into question. The question is, are these solutions that are offered here going that way? I, of course, welcome the fact that the law is going to be simpler, that it will be easier to get that status. But is that fair? The method of acquiring both status and status must be clear, it is not crucial that it be brief. If he's simple, it doesn't necessarily mean he'll be just. And that's what to pay attention to. There is even the danger of avoiding what is necessary in order to gain some status, if this is clearly prescribed in the law, that the consequence is reversed, that the acquisition of the status of one and the other is unfair, and this raises the third fundamental principle on which the regulation of this issue should be rested, which is that one and the other status and Croatian wartime defences and Croatian defenders indeed have those who were Croatian defenders, indeed in connection with the war, and also Croatian wartime war people whose disability is in this sense undeniable, so as not to question their participation and their victim for their country. And that's why it's a very important question. I would ask the Minister, or the Ministry, to pay special attention in this regard. And another note concerning Croatian wartime wartime disabled members of the Croatian Defence Council. The situation that was several years ago was the following, unsustainable, is that the same people, people who had the same condition, one had solutions and the basis of these solutions had social security, and the others were exercising some rights, but part of some cumulative group that was never known, because there was no complete administrative procedure when these rights would be abolished, and which were less than those of their fellow disabled persons who were injured in the same way, who got several years ago in some other circumstances of some other administrations got solutions. That can't happen. Therefore, it can be discussed how much the Croatian state can help Croatian wartime wartime disabled, members of the Croatian Defence Council. It is also necessary to look at the relations within Bosnia and Herzegovina to the extent that they have resolved rights there, of course, to look at diplomatic relations, but what must not happen is that some disabled Croatian wartime wartime members of the Croatian Defence Council in the same state have completely different rights. I have advocated that this issue be resolved over the past years and now, if to a large extent it is not solved it is bad, it is, of course, part of my failure I can say, but that question certainly needs to be solved. And finally, the issue of consensus and the final position of the Libre on this law. We will not be a party that will question the consensus. But the consensus makes sense, then if it's real, if it comes out of real relationships, and that means if it's not a fruit of politics, and then at the speed of the agreement that this is achieved by consensus, that consensus is not necessary, and we won't take up such consensus. And so our final position, we will be for the first time reading of this Law, to be of course in response to these questions that we have asked, and equally on how far this will be overcome here by what is the general interest and to what extent the politicization of this important issue will actually be avoided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24047	Thank you very much. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. Representative Jukic, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24048	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, I would like to correct the inaccuracies of my colleague Radosa, who has claimed, I quote, we all know that there are defenders who have not seen the front line, we all know that there are Croatian military disabled people who illegally use rights. Correcting, I don't know. I don't know about other colleagues, but I don't know. If I were to know that there are Croatian military disabled persons who are illegally using rights then I would fulfil my duty and file a report to the competent authority and of course there are possibilities to renew the procedure and everything that exists in the rule of law and I call on my colleague Rados if he knows of such cases to fulfil his duty and to back up his claims and not to generalise this before the whole public and reopen the question so-called. false disabled, which is inadmissible, which is in fact a continuation of the violation of the dignity of Croatian military disableds as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24049	Thank you very much. Representative Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24050	Here, I am now in a position to help government representatives because both counterparts Kajin and colleagues Radoš said the 2004 budget was higher by 800 million kuna compared to 2003. I wish that were the case. This difference of 800 million kuna is simply about transferring funds from one ministry to the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity so that only 500 million kuna was transferred from the Ministry of Labour from the position of pensions of active military personnel and remember when I called on the entire government to pay her lunch if the evidence that the 2004 budget is larger than the 2003 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24051	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Representative Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24052	Madam Vice President, Mr. Jukic did not correct the incorrect allegations but stated his position. Therefore, he violated Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure. Sam in the introduction said that he also knows that there are defenders who have never seen the battlefield but I don't invite him to report it because I didn't say it for individual cases, but as a phenomenon, and of course, all of us as people know it and to deal with applications at this level absolutely doesn't make any sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24053	Thank you very much. Agent Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24054	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Rados said there was no consensus because of politics or politics when the past law was passed. This is incorrect because the past law abolished the fundamental rights of Croatian defenders. Their rights were called privileges, the defenders were criminalized. There were more than a hundred amendments to the previous law that were all rejected and these are the reasons why it was not brought by consensus and not politicisation, and I sincerely hope this one will be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24055	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go, fellow representative!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24056	Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers and her associates, colleagues and colleagues and especially fellow defenders at the gallery! First, I would like to stress that I believe that all of us, as much as we were in our power, have defended and defended Croatia with rifles and typewriters, by collecting donations, money, cooks, holding hands of children who were hiding in the basements and every contribution was important and we all submitted our share of the burden but today we are only talking about one category of participants in the Homeland War, Croatian defenders. It is therefore unusually important to determine first the category of defenders. I made my own journey from an ordinary soldier to a commander of the stand-alone Skabrnje and commander of the Zadar battlefield and the southern battlefield. My wife suffered terrible traumas and experienced shocks every day of my stay on the battlefield but she, gentlemen, is not a defender. This is why they cannot agree with the proposal to include people working in the National Protection, Firefighters, civil protection members in the same category, with all due respect for their contribution to the independence of our country. The expansion of the defence population to people who haven't spent time on the battlefield is diminishing the possibility that we can channel financial resources to those who have fought on the battlefield and still suffer the consequences today. It wouldn't be fair to all my colleagues and comrades if we increased the defense population so much that we couldn't take care of her financially tomorrow so we could re-enact new laws. It's a danger that really threatens. On behalf of the Club of HNS-PGS Representatives, but also as a Croatian defender, I support the position of gentlemen from the Association of 100% Croatian Military Disabilities Group I, who propose to share the status of participants and defenders. This law should define and resolve the status of defenders, the status of members of national protection, fire departments and others should resolve a separate law, a law on participants in the Homeland War. This would also evaluate the contribution of Croatian defenders and participants of the Homeland War in a different but not less important way. If we allow the uncontrollable spread of volunteer defenders who are now, volunteers who are now in the minority compared to other defenders are in a position to become a marginalized group in the defense population. Because of the above, it cannot support the extension of the defence status. While this law without clear criteria extends the category of defenders, one category which I believe certainly belongs to the category of defenders of volunteers is left out, so I propose that the following article be included in the law: "The volunteer of the Homeland War is also the wife of the Croatian defender from the Homeland War who volunteered to make herself available to the Republic of Croatia and participated in the defence of its sovereignty before 15 January 1992 and spent at least one hundred days in the armed forces." It's about 700 to 1,000 women who spent that time with a gun on the battlefield. The issue of retired defenders as volunteers in the Homeland War, including a number of officers and officers and other pensioners, is also needed. Under the current law, they do not have the right to retire as members of the HV, although they were. Their participation in the war, and even if they participated for all five years, was not valued anywhere. We suggest that this category be given a choice between civil and military retirement. For this reason, I propose to the Ministry and the Government to produce and present to the Croatian Parliament an accurate study of the number of defenders and the amount of funds that would be sufficient for such a law, and to second reading explain it in order for the rights to be in line with the financial opportunities. Our goal must be to reach a solution that will be fair and for a long time implement it so that the law does not re-change what I think is an important issue. I would like to point out some more failures of this bill proposal, training and time spent in training cannot be a battlefield and we cannot classify this period during the time spent on the battlefield and on the status of defenders. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that the Homeland War lasted from 1991 to 1995, while the bill proposes the duration from 1990 to 1996. This would not only extend the list of defenders but would involve changing the Constitution. And I'd like to be told where we fought it in the '90s and '96s. I will quote you from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia's source base. In the first democratic elections of 1990, the Croatian people freely confirmed a thousand-year state self-esteem, the new Constitution of the Republic of Croatia 1990. And by winning the Homeland War in 1991/95. The Croatian people have shown their determination and willingness to establish and preserve the Republic of Croatia as an independent and independent and sovereign and democratic state. So, I think by changing this year from 90th to 96th, we should change the Constitution if we go along with it, and I agree. This Law also introduced some new solutions that we consider to be extremely good: the introduction of the rights of all the dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War to the burial of military honors and the cost of burial by the ministry. Unobsolete rights based on the death of a Croatian defender from the Homeland War who committed suicide and as a consequence of the mental illness caused by participation in the defence of Croatia. Prolonging the validity and medical documentation for the disease and death of the disease, and suicide from 30 days, i.e. from 2 years of PTSD to 10 years. This pension allowance, which becomes an integral part of the pension, and the attitude towards PTSD sufferers, which I certainly welcome. However, when we talk about retirement, we believe that the minimum pension proposal of 45% of the average personal income in the Republic of Croatia is too low and we argue that this amount is increased to at least 50% of the average salary. Unfounded suspicions are that a large part of the defenders will seek a 45 or 50% defence pension because a large part of the defenders have secured their pension by working time and will not even enter that category. Only the most vulnerable group of defenders will enter this category. The issue of internships and rights based on that internship for the time spent on the battlefield. We agree with the introduction of a participation for the disabled of the Homeland War. However, we would be much more pleased that the government has fulfilled its promise to restore the right to participation of all defenders, especially because the latest surveys showed that the population of Croatian defenders is 300 to 400% more than the rest of the population in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, gentlemen, don't be too afraid for retirement, half of them will be dead by then. And what about returning the right to import a car without customs for all the defenders? The financing of the basis of this Law is clearly visible and we see that this government gives about 200 million kunas more than the previous government. Therefore, I ask where is the return of the defendant's dignity and pride, but regardless of all this for the sake of Croatian defenders, i.e. The HNS and PGS club supports the adoption of this Act but requires that all the above-mentioned ambiguities and miss out on a hasty basis so that this Act will be seen in the second reading to the satisfaction of all of us, and especially Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24057	Thank you very much, colleague. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24058	A respected colleague of Kurt's claimed that it was at war in '96. Namely, in period 1. 1. June 96th to June 30th. In 96, a peaceful reintegration of 26 defenders was not yet carried out, and 26 families were killed in a situation with the risk law that they had lost or had to lose the status of the family of the late Croatian defender. And then I'll tell you where it all happened, Mr. Kurt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24059	Thank you very much, Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24060	Dear Vice President, I would also correct the incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague of Kurt's who said where this was fought in the 1990s and 96s. Namely, I must remind him of the balvan of the revolution, the national protection forces, the armed members of the police who went into the defense of sovereignty and also perished. And also in the 96th year in Eastern Slavonia 26 or 28 I think even that the dead and dead Croatian defenders during the time of their peaceful reintegration from the fifth, third guard brigades, homeland regiments and reserve units. At that moment, there was still a threat of war and it was at war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24061	Thank you very much. He's a representative of the Wrestler.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24062	I have to correct a colleague of Kurt's who says, incorrectly of course he doesn't know where the 90s and 96s were at. It may be true that he does not know, but it is incorrect that it was fought because we remember that the Croatian police formed the foundations of then Croatian defences with armed protection. So it was quite a war, and somewhere in June it seems to me the '90s were started by the balvanies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24063	Thank you very much, colleague. No more correcting incorrect allegations. Before we take a break, the Deputy Prime Minister will speak to us, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24064	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here at the end of this morning I would like to thank you for today's constructive debate. I believe on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that such a debate will continue in such an atmosphere. I'd just like to make some clarifications from the so far, about the previous presentations of club representatives. For example, regarding this minimum pension, i.e. protected Croatian defenders' pension. It was one of the questions that would be addressed and when at all, there were thoughts about how it would apply to some groups only in twenty years. It's not true, we've done very precise projections, very precise calculations. Next year, according to the adoption of this provision, if the law is adopted in this form, about 10,000 Croatian defenders could be entitled to this protected minimum pension. She'd be 1773 kuna. As for also one remark of well-intentioned, we accept it in order to abolish the right of living care for the prisoners and the missing, it is a single failure, absolutely not, therefore, housing, and it is very much continuing in all of the previous forms for that category, I think it is well noted and we will certainly correct it. It's about one little leak. There have also been remarks that not all associations have been consulted on the drafting of this Law. They did! Namely, I noted in the introduction, therefore, the coordination of associations from the Homeland War that includes all associations at the state level plus HVIDRA, plus the Union of widows' associations agreed on their representatives. So the representatives participated in the draft law, of course not every association has delegated its representative according to this agreement. And as for lower-level associations, county or some other, of course, it was impossible to include everything in the previous debate on the law, clearly that now everyone has the opportunities to do what they do, send their comments and their constructive proposals. Thus, there was also an observation that the Association of the Parents of the Dead Croatian Defences was not consulted, no, however, Mr Kovacek, a representative of the Association of Parents of the Dead Croatian Defences participated in the presentation of the draft and was one of the constructive factors I would say in making this law because much of the law knows and really helped. As far as HVO is concerned, many of you ladies and gentlemen have so far mentioned problems related to members of the Croatian Defence Council. I can announce that an agreement that should regulate their rights in preparation is, in fact, already in its completion, and I believe that it should be signed or obtained by the end of this year. And, of course, regarding some remarks about defenders who are not or Croatian wartime disabled who are not, I also, as Deputy Prime Minister and as Croatian Defence Minister, invite all those who know about such cases to report it. I don't know about cases like that. The people I keep in touch with every day, who are with, along with my associates, trying to solve problems, I don't know, I haven't met. I only meet people who are sad, people who have problems, people, I said on the edge of existence, people who are often with a sense of right and humility and insult. I've never met the fakes before in my work, but I call upon those who know to report it. And by the end of the number of Croatian defenders, ladies and gentlemen, we have worked in parallel with this law on the project with the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence, the programme of the register of Croatian defenders, and I believe it will also be completed by the end of the year. It's a complicated job. We are just at the conclusion of the production and the criteria for enrollment in, i.e. for the entry of shares into the Croatian Defence Fund. This job is also somewhere near the end and we will know the final exact number of Croatian defenders. It is also necessary for the implementation of this law, but also for the implementation of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund, which is one of the strongest funds. It's going to be difficult, under quotes, about 4 billion kuna. Here's my thanks again. The debate will take a long time. Thank you very much for your constructive remarks. What I can promise right now is that we will take a good look at all the comments and indeed try to put in what is possible until the final proposal. I repeat again in these circumstances and current opportunities of the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24065	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. 13.30 hours for lunch break. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. The first was reported by the HSS Club, a fellow representative of Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24066	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. On behalf of the HSS Club, a respected representative, Željko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24067	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Vice-Presidents, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, I am taking the opportunity to particularly welcome representatives of the associations that are with us this afternoon on behalf of the HSS Club. This is when we talk about the proposal for a law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, the HSS Club in principle supports the adoption of a new law. We believe that precisely defining who is considered a Croatian defender, the time, the time of participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, the recognition of the status of Croatian defenders, the extension of these statuses to members of civil protection, national protection, then covering part of the cost of health care, then determining the lowest pension, then determining the status of Croatian people with disabilities of the Homeland War are extremely important issues for all defenders and we believe that such laws and similar laws should be passed, brought by consensus in this House. When we talk about this, we must also say that so far there have been laws that have been passed by consensus and that have been spent some time but what is particularly bothering us in the HSS is that we do not yet have a finished register of Croatian defenders, d. we do not know exactly how many defenders there have been and that with every change of power new Law on the rights of defenders is being passed. So then from these various discussions can be read how the defenders had no idea what great rights, I can say that as a defender I didn't quite feel these rights to myself except that I had the possibility of importing that car by, without customs practically. And the other rights I personally don't remember being able to make them happen. Therefore, these rights have never been too great, and it is clear that only the definition of these rights depends on how much the state can allocate funds to its defenders. And the defenders are the ones who created this country and surely should take care of them and pay all the attention and attention. When the Deputy Prime Minister spoke of the goals that motivated this law to be passed, I personally support them all. It just seems to me that unfortunately we won't be able to achieve all these goals. That is why there are certain, certain problems that we suggest that in the second, for the second reading the Government around them is manifested. I will briefly try to count them because the obvious to these problems depends on and the final vote of the HSS Club on the adoption of this law. These are as I have already mentioned the question of the defence registry, which the vice president also found not yet made, although certain data exist because they are 400 and a few thousand defenders. I'd like to say that this register is finally being established and that we know because a whole series of legal regulations that are foreseen here depend on that register. Practically, it won't even be possible to enforce the law if that register isn't parallel to the law. The issue of beginning and ending of the Homeland War is also treated differently in different laws so far. This law stipulates that this is the 5.8th, although we had a proposal on the Veterans Committee and that it would be differently regulated, and I think it's high time we finally regulate the start-and-end date of the Homeland War, not to say every time we bid on it and say whether it was before, after. And today we had this in replicas. I generally think that it is known in military circles, and it is our proposal to finally make military, scientific and official announcements when it was the beginning, and when the end of the Homeland War and that this professional service that is in charge of it finally publishes, not every time we discuss it in changing certain laws. Furthermore, what is certainly inevitable with this law is that there must be also a register of combat units, a register of their actions and a commander who is also with the registry of defenders inescapable so that this law can be consistently and accurately implemented in the coming times. I think it's time that those questions were finally resolved and that sometimes we don't know how many years someone mentioned that, as mentioned today in the debate that with two witnesses we got the status of counsel or I don't know what. Therefore, I would like to ask that we have a particularly established register of combat units of our own who participated in the defence and creation of our country. This law should also be in line with some other laws that have already been passed. I mean it first and foremost with the Family Law, with the Defense Act because we can't carry out any further law if some of the rights that are passed are now less than they were in some of the previous laws that have been established. We've had these 14, 15 years of different laws, and our victims shouldn't suffer now because of this law if we're changing something in comparison, and before that, they're more comfortable with it. There are examples like that. We discussed them on committees. It means compliance with those laws. Especially before the second reading is here, I'd like that too, the professional services that are working on this to harmonize. Also, compliance with the pension system, with the health system of this law, is certainly necessary. And in this way we will only allow the implementation of this law to be long-term so that no other change of government can happen again and such laws as are certainly one of the most important. One of the objectives here I am personally supporting, which is the right to a minimum pension. We at the HSS Club particularly advocate the adoption of a minimum average, minimum pension for our defenders precisely because we think they are now a Corps of people who are relatively young but already said the vice president that even in the years that come they meet the conditions for a parliamentary pension and those people must surely have that minimum pension. What's she gonna be, if 45% is enough, that's some of those 1700 and some kunas, I'd personally say she's not. However, I believe that this depends on the amount of the budget and that amount, and we at HSS advocate that this minimum pension is no less than the average pension that is in the country today. So she should be higher, I believe with these, those 45 or how many associations have asked 60% for that solution somewhere in between. Further in this second part of my address, I would like to highlight some things that still need to be brought into line for another reading. So this is what I mentioned, compliance with the pre-existing laws that were regulated by certain concepts, and then it wouldn't be good for us to now determine to our disabled that those who have more than 30% have the right to participation and somewhere else it's already solved differently. And I think it would certainly be necessary to free all Croatian defenders from criticism. Also, when we talk about the honors that every defender has at death, he would like us not to come into some kind of inadequacy with a local self-government that will need to single out a part of our resources for that. And that's precisely what the law provides for local self-government. Or local self-government will charge some of those funds to the ministry. I think we should define that more precisely. Furthermore, part of the proposal in the law that I have already mentioned in short, it could practically not be implemented without a defense attorney's register. And here I point once again to the necessity of passing just to know exactly how many defenders there were. Likewise, when it comes to the implementation of this law, it provides for additional employment of some field workers. I think we've got defense administrations and offices that already today have all the information that we need to unite our jobs together. And I don't see any reason why these services that are doing this part of the job today wouldn't be able to do a part of the job if it's going to be increased by this law. When we talk about the amount of funds that are foreseen by the scope of moving the dates to change that we are bringing the possibility of other members coming under the status of defenders, I don't think these means that are predicted will be sufficient. And I'd like to get a detailed calculation for the second reading. So we know exactly how much this means is and what should be provided in the budget. It was the same in Article 5 when we speak in the list of diseases that each government has so far had in its own medical commission. Each government has so far formed its list of diseases that I would like that part of the job to continue to be even and that we all have the same lists. Not to change them as needed or by government changes. Also in Article 6, when we talk about members of the family of the death - stricken defender we have cases, there are very few in Croatia where our defenders who unfortunately had no family. Who lived in homes, and after that went to war, there are only a few. And their brothers or sisters, who are the others, I think they should have the same rights as members of the family of the dead defenders. I think there are all four such cases and I think that for such a solution could be found in the ministry, or if someone died a brother and didn't have anyone or him. Or sisters if a brother died too, that such cases should then be classified as family members. I say, those who lived in homes because they didn't have the opportunity to live in a family like everyone else. Furthermore, in Article 14, I think that in the last indent when it comes to pensions, there should be room for that amount of pension that should not be less than the average pension today. These are some of the indications that I wanted to mention here in this opening part of the coke that would be important to meet so that the second reading of the HSS Club could take the final view on how it would support this law. Finally, I would like to conclude, the HSS supports the adoption of a new law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families. We suggest that these few points that I have mentioned here from the defense registry, questions of the end of the home war, then, establishing the battle forces of commanders ai joint actions of their own. Then they establish a consensus about it military and official and scientific when it began and the war ended. From compliance with existing laws such as the Law on Defence and Family Law. And making that pension right, minimum pensions for our defenders are issues we expect to define until the second reading. More specifically, we'll be able to take our final position at the club on the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24068	Thank you very much. SDP club respected MP Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24069	Mr. President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister. Representatives of the Homeland War Association, ladies and gentlemen. We have long been announced by the current government and long expected by the entire public a bill on Croatian defenders. According to the Prime Minister himself and other government members given on various occasions and today. Among other things, the aim of this bill is to restore dignity to Croatian defenders. In that category apparatus, dignity, and so on would be discussed. Especially in light of the current government's new policy towards the International Court of Justice in The Hague. But maybe some other time. This debate on behalf of the Club, I'd like to tie a representative of the SDP to the facts. They can be cold, they can be inexorable, but they are based on every serious and responsible policy, and I believe that is the only place in the Croatian Parliament. We are a small country to allow ourselves the luxury of voting laws and making decisions that would not be designed to create a strong state-owned and developed civil society that will allow for full and quality life for the citizens of our country. Because for such a country, Croatian defenders initially fought in our defence and fair Homeland War. Fight and win. Unfortunately, many have not returned to their homes, their families, or returned without body parts, or with serious health problems. The task that is then put before each responsible political community is to help these people and their families. In the mid-90s, the Republic of Croatia approached the legislative solution of the victims of the Homeland War immediately after the end of the war, and accordingly established an appropriate system of care that I think is far more quality than any system of care in the former Yugoslavia. Because from the Club of HSP MPs, it was heard that the system of care is even more of a quality of Republika Srpska than the care system in Croatia. Which I couldn't agree with. Unfortunately, in practice, the system has, with all the good it has brought, started to generate problems in terms of a series of irregularities which not only were a financial burden for the state, but also created dissatisfaction among the Croatian defenders themselves. And the late President-in-Office of the Republic of Francis Tudjman at meetings with members of the then government spoke openly about it by seeking a break-up with such practice. For certain reasons, however, there was no change and we know why. Therefore, the 2001 law was adopted exclusively in order to create a more rational system that would protect true Croatian defenders of true stables. And if we haven't been able to agree so far. However, the satisfaction of us in the SDP is the fact that a postulate which we have been taking place is also present with the promoter. And that is that every law must be within the framework of Croatia's financial and economic opportunities. That is why we considered most of the promises to Croatian defenders since the opposition, and the current authorities, to be unrealistic and demagogue, and this is precisely the proposal of the law to confirm this because it is largely based on the current so-called attack law of 2001. Let's remember which dictionary, I hope only in the heat of a political struggle is called. In short, not to be too long, it was an anti-defense law that was to be repealed and rewritten by the same words. This was said by people here in the Parliament who today say something completely different, because they knew it would be impossible to implement, because the economic situation in Croatia unfortunately does not allow it. Therefore, in this proposal for a law that is acceptable to the SDP, there are no fundamental promises. For example, there is no increase in the disability base from 115% to 160% and a return of a special allowance that would increase disability by about 90%, but instead offers an increase in family disability by 10%. There is also no import licence for Croatian defenders' cars, except for several hundred Croatian military disableds up to the 4th group who did not use this right. There is no exemption from health insurance participations for all Croatian defenders and members of their families, but this right is being extended partly for Croatian wartime wartime people and families of the dead, prisoners and missing Croatian defenders. So instead of a million people, that law will cover several tens of thousands of people. There is also no change in the existing model of housing, and there is not so much announced return of child allowances at the maximum amount for children of HRVI except for children of the deceased, imprisoned and missing Croatian defender. And I'm still not counting, all in all of the nearly 5 billion how hard the pre-election promises have come to some 100 million kunas. So instead of 3.5 billion, the budget will be 3.6 billion kuna. And it should be said that it is a Croatian reality. Surely all of us here would want far more, greater rights and greater resources, but because of the economic situation in Croatia, it is not possible. And to conclude in this part. We in the SDP are pleased that HDZ has largely taken over our policy to build systems of care for Croatian defenders and to say especially after the debate of counterpart Milinovic on behalf of the HDZ Club, gentlemen of the HDZ thank you for taking over our law to the greatest extent. We also support the introduction of physical rehabilitation, and facilitate the right of families imprisoned and missing, etc., etc. I stress that the terms "Croatian volunteer", as well as "member of the national protection and the Hos" are included in the 2001 law, and not now, but we have nothing against that being further emphasized. Also, there would be no confusion, Croatian defenders and prisoners of Serbian concentrationators and under the existing law in the beginning have HRVI status with 20% physical damage, so that the inclusion of that provision in the Nispat law does not bring about significant. I don't know why the law laid down the right to compensation during unemployment, because unfortunately more Croatian defenders and children of the deceased are coming to the Employment Office. It's probably a mistake. That's what we agree on. However, the desire of all of us is certain that this law is passed by consensus, and exactly what I'm going to talk about is part of the law in which we in the SDP are looking for and offering the possibility of agreeing and improving this proposal. The key lack of this bill is the lack of basic control mechanisms that would eliminate the possibility of abuse, as the promoter also boasts that he has simplified the status process. What we consider controversial, and if the parliamentary majority wants a sincere consensus, we also expect concrete moves. First. Using the term "deadly injured Croatian defender" instead of "dead Croatian defender". This is not just a formal change, it's a change in content. The Association of Parents of the Dead Croatian Defences also wants to leave an existing provision, as this change would lead to new irregularities. Second. Prolonging the period for patients from PTSD to 10 years, and with skill and longer. Without high-quality medical committees, precise regulations and the possibility of continuous settlement of irregularities, the number of rights abuses on this basis will increase significantly. I think the goal must be to provide us with full health care to every disease, try to cure it and bring it into the world of work, means to hire it. Retired people at the age of 40 cannot be a solution and would like to see that argument taken into account. Third. Returning the possibility of retirement based on disability and persons who do not have HRVI status is a return in the 1990s when, illegally, 5,000 people have gained the right to a disabled peacemaker without having the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid. This was also pointed out by the HSP parliamentary representative, as this is an additional possibility of further spreading corruption between various commissions and pensioners in the pension fund. So something that was illegal is legalized, and it's still being encouraged. Also guaranteeing pensions to 45% of the average salary in Croatia, which they say is 1,773 kuna is the right which, according to the promoters, 10,000 people next year, but we have not heard how many Croatian defenders will make use of it and within what time. It would appear to be an obligation that some of the next Croatian governments will have to fulfil. If they were to be sure that the number of defenders would not increase, the assessments could be made, however, this law further extends the circle of Croatian defenders with members of national protection, with that if it remains only on armed orders, then there will be no problem, but there are no guarantees, and civil protection. Many will see the way out for their inexplicable social situation in these peace insurance rights, and this means increasing the number of Croatian defenders. At the end of 2003, according to the MORH and MUP figures, there were around 405,000, and according to the minister in charge, it was said several months ago, the number rose to 570,000. Later on, the same ministry tried to defuse it. So, if that trend continues, and the controls are gone, audits, i.e. Translation has been cancelled, the figure will grow to meaningless scales. I don't know who it'll be in the interest of, but I certainly know that true Croatian defenders won't be. Due to the increase in the number of users on all grounds, this law will be very difficult to follow financially in the coming years. And another concrete objection and proposal, to Article 122, which provides for the establishment of new regional units of ministries by county and the city of Zagreb, which would have an advisoryly informative role. We believe that this is completely contrary to the government's declared policy on reducing and rationalising the state administration, because it is about hiring new ones, as 100 people have been said. If we could run the ministry then with the name of Croatian defenders, you could, I suppose, do this with a strange name. Employment of new people in jobs already performed by officials in state administration offices and part-time employees at PSP centres will be exclusively a plastic proof of the total incompetence and incompetence of the ruling furniture, and I don't think the government wants it to. Let me say a few more words about additional issues that will soon be opened to some like it or not. Due to changes in individual basics in some family disability rights, pensions will increase the difference between members of other veteran groups, i.e. Veterans II. World War II and other disabled groups. It is particularly interesting to include the Republic of Croatia in international integration and the obligations followed by the recommendations of the World Veteran Federation, so that there is no confusion, which has already been called here, on the same treatment of members of all troops or all veterans. This means that new legal solutions will be needed for members, above all, of the anti-fascist movement and also of the regular armies of the then military and civilian victims of war. The importance of anti-fascist fighting in Croatia was least ignored in the 1990s. However, after the latest statements by Italian post-fascists and also the top government officials of Italy to whom Istra, Primorje and Dalmatia belong, it is likely that all in Croatia whose hearts Croatia sees the importance of the anti-fascist struggle and its participants who, among other things, have returned to the Croatian coast, will preserve its Croatianism. This is why it is an obligation for all of us to appreciate the contribution of all the armies that fought for the Croatian homeland. It should also not be pointed out that the Homeland War was an anti-fascist war, a war against large-serb fascism. When I said that all the troops who fought for Croatian interests should be appreciated, the members of the Croatian Defence Council should also be mentioned. The constitutional obligation of the Republic of Croatia is to assist members of the Croatian people no matter where they live. There is no need to particularly explain why this is particularly important for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The former government prepared a proposal covering all families of the dead, and wartime military disabled with higher percentages, with around 500 million kuna in security. It was said by this government that the proposal should be amended. In any case, we in the SDP advocate that, either in this law, we write a commitment to the systematic resolution of the issue of HVO victims, of course in real possibilities or commit the Government to come out with a new special law or an interstate contract. And let me get this straight. In order to protect true Croatian defenders and victims and to protect the fundamental values of the Homeland War, given the country's economic potential, the SDP welcomes the taking of most of the solutions from our current law, also accepts some new changes, but asks the promoters to take the second reading into account the objections and to achieve full agreement on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24070	Thank you. We have a series of corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24071	Dear Mr. President, Honorable counterpart Pancic said Mr. Djapic claimed that the system of Republika Srpska's care is better than Croatia. That's incorrect. Mr Djapic spoke about the level and content of rights according to the scope in Republika Srpska. The second incorrect thing is that the problem of members of the HOS was solved in 2001, it was solved in 97 as volunteers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24072	Dear Representative Josip Djakic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24073	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I will correct Mr. Pancic's imprecise claim that the demagogue promises have been decommissioned and that this law will not cover a million Croatian defenders. No million Croatian defenders are involved. It's just over 400 thousand Croatian defenders and the final register will be by the end of the year, so you'll see how many Croatian defenders there really are, and that's what you're begging to do. That there is not enough stuff in this law from the 96th, there is as much space as you have left us in the state budget to cover the entire population of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24074	Thank you. Petar Mlinarić, a respected representative, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24075	Mr. President, Your Honor. I'm correcting Mr. Pancic's incorrect allegations. It is an incorrect assumption that HDZ has prescribed a law from the SDP. The HDZ law existed before 2000, it was good, which you inherited and adopted, but also very poored it. We're just improving it, the one from before 2000, and now we've improved it, and if you had created the state, you would have it. Therefore, you have no reason to look forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24076	Dear representative Bozica Šolić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24077	Thank you very much. I'm correcting Mr. Pancic's incorrect quote. You said literally, and I quote, "Thank you, gentlemen of the HDZ for taking over our law." Mr. Pancic, that's not true, and I'm going to tell you now what's true. You are correct that this bill on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, which is before us today, was primarily created on the basis of the profession, because a wide range of experts participated in the drafting of the law together with representatives of associations from the Homeland War. Mr. Pancic, this is your actual state of origin of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24078	Dear Representative Frana Matušić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24079	Thank you, Mr. President. Although my colleagues had already corrected, I would also like to make my contribution to correcting this incorrect quote for the sake of the Croatian public. In fact, it is a completely incorrect allegation that the Croatian Democratic Community has taken over or rewritten some SDP bill. It is true that the SDP had its own bill of law and passed it in 2001, and with that law it caused a huge dissatisfaction of all defence populations and associations. So today it's a whole new law, and otherwise HDZ has given 155 amendments from which you adopted only one, if you remember. So it's about a whole new law that's coordinated with all the associations, with all the groups being defensive, so don't give us anything that's not true. And it's also the truth that this law, it's going to be hard to follow financially. It's a complete lie. This law is very clear that it is very real and that the funds in the budget have been secured already for 2005 based on all projections of the application of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24080	Okay. Thank you very much. Dear representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24081	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Comrade Pancic, it is not true that this law is 80 percent prescribed by the existing law. At the time of HDZ in 1996, the first Law on Croatian Defence was passed, so please read the first page, here are no changes. We pass the law on the basis of Article 84. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 129 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submits a bill on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and not a proposal to amend the law, it is the first amendment. Second correction, please, Mr. President, I have raised the plate twice regarding the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24082	There isn't. There isn't. Easy, easy. There's no twice you've picked up. You can only pick up once.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24083	Here please need an agreement to change it is not said by the Croatian Government's promoter, but should be completed and we will bring it to Christmas this year, where you have raised your hand for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24084	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24085	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24086	Honorable representative Velimir Plesa, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24087	Thank you very much. Well it is completely incorrect, Mr Pancic's statement, to quote: "Thank you, gentlemen of the HDZ, for taking over our Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences", etc. It's incorrectly simple for a few reasons, and I'll only count two. It's one of those because if you did that to me then you'd agree with your thesis in 2001 when you passed that law, where you said that human life, or the life of a dead defender, has no price and cannot be measured by thousands of kunas. Unfortunately, and then today, we think in HDZ and myself personally that human life has a very price, but it is not measured by money but by thinking about how much and how much we pay attention to Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24088	Thank you. And finally, the esteemed representative Furio Radin. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24089	Thank you very much. Lately, there have been many unfortunate and inappropriate statements by the Italian right about Istria, Rijeka and Dalmatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24090	What are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24091	From Mr. Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24092	Which one, yes?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24093	But it is wrong, however, that even on that side, I point out, even on that side, that someone has adopted Istria, Rijeka and Dalmatia. If any statement is read, I say, they are unhappy, historical assessments in the tilateral, but there is not one, however, and even in those statements it is stressed that they are not changing borders. I stress that because of what and even when they are in a position, it must be thought that the relationship between the two states remains good. Well, then, please take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24094	The clubs are over. The clubs are over. We're going to an individual debate, and before that, Vice President, Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24095	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. I'd like to say two more words, of course, by referring to the performances of two other clubs. So, after the break of the HSS Club and the SDP. The question has been asked why there is no register yet as if it were the sole obligation of this government and it is as if for the first time in life someone in Croatia is talking about the register. The truth is, the register was supposed to be made, ladies and gentlemen, somewhere up until 2002 at the latest. The register of Croatian defenders has not been made. Here is the Regulation on the single register of Croatian defenders with an obligation, which is from February 2002 to be made within 6 months. It wasn't done. The job, also a big, difficult, painful job, was welcomed by this Croatian government. We, in our ministry, together with the Ministry of Defence and Home Affairs, have dealt with that problem, and I believe that we will solve it by the end of this year. So it could have been, the registry could have been, but it needs to be done two years ago. So much for the register. It's not the department's jurisdiction, it's the defence department's jurisdiction. And of course, on the issue of what is, here, highlighted by the HSS Club of Problems, issues of the beginning and end of the defence, participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. We have accepted the position of Croatian defenders and the position of Croatian defenders has been incorporated into this Act. The position to make it August 5th 90th to June 30th, 96. It has already been pointed out several times in the debate here today that in 96, therefore, it is the position of Croatian defenders, which this government eventually accepted after talks and agreements. It is true that in the original foundations of the Croatian Constitution it was written in 91-95, but we felt it was necessary to respect the facts, and the facts were those already spoken of by ladies and gentlemen representatives of the 28 dead, etc., etc. As regards the minimum pension, therefore, protected pensions and remarks that it should be greater than the average pension, i.e. in accordance with the average pension, I would like to warn that this minimum protected pension is here somewhere. In fact, it would only be 32 kunas less than the average pension in the Republic of Croatia. As regards the observations that came from the SDP Club and the observations that this Law is based to the greatest extent on the 2001 Law, I must say that this is not true. I will remind both the ladies and gentlemen of the MPs to read the assessment of the situation and the basic issues to be addressed by this Law, where we have made very clear a few facts about what happened to the 2001 Law. First of all, it was demonstrated through the implementation of the 2001 Law that the Law imposed the collection of a series of unreachable documents to establish the status of a Croatian military disabled. As you know, this law reduced the basics of a family pension by about 50% and disability pensions by 30 to 50%. The biggest objection to the public was addressed to this institute of famous translations which we, on the first occasion, amended, the Government proposed, the Croatian Parliament accepted in accordance with the recommendations and at the end of the judgments of the courts which annulled the solutions of the first-degree bodies and the Croatian Ministry of Defence from the Homeland War and where the instructions that the process of translation of recognised rights could not be done, that no new proceedings could be carried out and that the rights acquired could not be abolished. In addition, in the 2001 Law that we also changed, as you remember, right at the beginning, there were some according to us totally unconstitutional provisions on the fact that a single category of Croatian defenders were unjustly punished. This was related to Croatian defenders who, for example, were detained or convicted, and then, according to the instructions that came from the ministry itself in response, the answers that we have, were said to have been another measure which allowed Croatian defenders who were convicted or who were punished for supporting the sentence to lose certain rights that other citizens in Croatia had not lost regardless of the convicted. As for the promise, I would certainly like to deny what the representative of the SDP Club was saying about some 5 billion kuna promises. No one from the Croatian Democratic Community, from this government spoke of 5 billion kuna promises, but in fact, we remember before the January 3rd 2000 elections, the Law of the same club was proposed, or was spoken in pre-election time about the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, which would weigh 19 billion kuna. However, it happened exactly the opposite, as you remember, in 2001 the Law was reduced and squeezed, and the rights were certainly drastically reduced. So, 19 billion, I remind you, and I ask you once again, really, that we are not politicizing in this debate and that we are not saying things that we are going to return the whole debate to the beginning, so we will remember a variety of statements about how HVIDRA should not be given any kuna, or lip, etc., etc. As for the observation of post-traumatic stress disorder, the 10 years we're proposing. I once again want to repeat and ask you to accept this position of the government, the ministry, in line with the defenders. That, as far as the deadline is concerned, we should finally listen to the profession. The profession says it's the deadline that needs to be accepted, and I would ask you all not to scare the public from the possibility of waking up people with post-traumatic stress disorder, which is a very bad message, which especially we who deal with politics have to guard ourselves. Finally, here we are finally in this session these few months came up with this real final number so far, the number that is terrible, which is great, which speaks of 1366 defenders who are suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder having committed suicide, so raise your hand to themselves, the scariest thing that can happen. Therefore, I agree that the most important goal, which I spoke about yesterday, and today, is the most important goal of introducing these people into the world of work, is to enable them to work. Absolutely on this we seem to have done a lot of things, we believe that the figure is around 2,500 thousand Croatian defenders who are employed according to our 6 measures that we have taken, i.e. which we have allowed to employ a number that is respectable and absolutely certain that projects of this ministry will, therefore, be the backbone of this ministry's work in the coming years. There you go. And just for the end of another, one correction, so it's not about a hundred people who would be employed in our district offices, because they're founded in the county and in the city of Zagreb, and it's about a number of 21. So 21 counties, the city of Zagreb. Thank you very much. Of course we will continue to listen carefully to this debate. And I believe that the Ministry to which I am headed and a team of people who work with me, who have worked on this Law, can guarantee that it will be a fair law that Croatian defenders will support, as well as my co-workers in the Cabinette, most of whom are Croatian defenders, particularly the advisers of Mr. Bestek, but also my dear colleagues in the Cabinette who are Croatian defenders, namely the guys on the Trpin road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24096	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I plan to wrap up this debate tonight on this bill today. There are still 59 deputies reported. When the individual debate begins. I appeal to the MPs to comply with these facts and adjust both the time and duration of their debate. Mr. Caine, which dots tomorrow, look in the agenda, after the point eight that dots go. It's right here. And accordingly, I also plead to the use of the institute to correct the incorrect allegations and replicas that everything is reflected in the light of today's conclusion, let us conclude this debate on this important proposal of the Law. Now we have two corrections to an incorrect quote. A respected representative of Pancic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24097	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm gonna try really hard to stick to this recommendation of yours, and I don't think I'm gonna take another word for it. But I would still correct here the incorrect quote of the Deputy Prime Minister, and that is also related to the earlier corrections by HDZ MPs. When it is said that when no one has ever spoken of 5 billion kunas of promises, this law is not based on the law of 2001. I'm saying I shouldn't be trusted, but I'm asking to read the amendment to the 2001 HDZ Law. It stands there, increasing the disability base from 115 to 160% of the budget base or from 115 to 130% of the average salary. There is talk of returning importers for, and personal cars for all Croatian defenders, and there is no such thing in this Law. There is talk of a release from the payment of a health insurance participation for all Croatian defenders and families of the dead. It's about child benefits about the maximum amount. And here I am bringing the end, and we are talking about changes in housing and another one in five, six rights. And that's the basis, so it's your amendment phonograms of your discussions on my finding that this law is based on the 2001 Law, as is the law of 97. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24098	Thank you very much. And the esteemed representative of Željko Kurt's correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24099	Mr. President, I must correct the assumption that in the 1990s and 96s there was a war. There was an accident. Was there any damage, yes. Should these people help who died in the '90s, '96s, yes, the Croatian state needs to help their families. But there was no war. And we cannot help these people with this Law to Croatian defenders, but the state of Croatia must help them in a way that other means.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24100	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate now. We are aware of all the circumstances related to the number of participants reported for the hearing. The first is the respected representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24101	Mr. President, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister, Mr. Secretary, Assistants, Counselors, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. The debate on the proposal of the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders in front of clubs said a lot, a lot of things some would like, but this Law is real not on wishes, but on real opportunities, on the real needs of Croatian defenders. So I can begin by saying that neither the time of his draft nor the time of his compliance with the professional associates who helped in his work nor the time used by the association representatives of the associations and their representatives in the committees for the making of this Law was spent without a matter, but that it was really reasonable to elaborate every article of this law in order to ultimately propose his content to be evenly fair, social, and decently distributed to the entire population of Croatian defenders who certainly because of their participation in the Homeland War because of their wounds, because of their sacrifice they did not expect to buy their trust with money as they did not expect even in the time they entered the units as volunteers as they would have been paid, how they would pass, whether they would ever experience their Croatian free. They were convinced they were strong and that they would win. They didn't know what was ahead of them or what was ahead of them. They didn't think about the rights that followed them, because they never thought of the rights that could happen. Their goal was for all together respected colleagues, defenders who follow this debate, everyone together was to defend us, free Croatia's homeland by not counting on the territorial incomes that we will also have for the mother in the later series. Therefore, I would like to say to this occasion that the 28 articles that are newly formed in this Law, with those two amendments and additions to the Law, are 30 novelties and new, completely new things in the rights of Croatian defenders and certainly satisfy the strongest population of the creators and defenders of the Croatian Homeland. Entering the financial projection of 3 billion 641 million kunas certainly for today's budget of the Republic of Croatia is a large amount, it is certainly greater than the amounts that have been allocated so far and certainly cannot be higher because the debts are, because the state budget situation is such that it cannot enable everything that should possibly still be settled in these legal forms. But it is for the first time that the institute of these minimum pensions is being instituted in order to really take care of those who have not participated anything in the present time from the right to what they have served the Homeland. When we talk about the people's protection that is included, it's strictly and clearly and precisely that it's about armed provisions of national protection and they're recorded in every form. Even of those divisions by HDZ, they brought in and they were recorded as the Croatian police reserve. So there's no doubt that someone might abuse it. In all those things that are said about the division of Croatian defenders, I believe that we as Croatian defenders are divided into only two categories and that is the perilous population and the defence population. And there are no third categories, attempts to divide ourselves into 50, 70 associations like the parties in the Croatian state certainly carry extra divisions in the population, and we want today when we have a development ministry, when we have people who respect Croatian defenders, when we have a government that has a transparent conversation from budget to legal basis, to all other things we want to welcome such treatment and we want to accept and what it is called that can no longer be asked or given. I also know that my population, which I represent as president of HVIDRE, has certain suggestions in order to obtain some of the immaterial rights, but by listing all legal norms, there are also for the population of the most difficult victims of Croatian wartime persons from the first to the fourth group, there are all norms to be really taken care of by those who are the hardest, who are burned in a wheelchair, who cannot live alone, but have to have a person who will take care of them and take care of them. Those of us with mild physical impairment certainly have fewer incomes but they are not so small that they could not live solidly. It is true that certain things can still be done if they are nomotechnical or other natural that some of the immaterial rights can be included in the Law, but therefore the following is experienced as of 2001. If it could not be supported, in the Croatian public it was presented that these are abnormal privileges and I would never want to mention it, I would not want to hear in any debate that is about privileges. All the wounds, all the deaths on the battlefield, all the trauma after coming from the unit in the families, in the relatives that were happening, all have their reasons and basis and there are no such material goods that can compensate anyone who has suffered, who is without a body, who is mentally distracted, cannot be compensated by any financial means for what he has invested in Croatia's homeland. But it can be done with this normal treatment with the population of Croatian defenders, with understanding, with no exaggeration in statements, and I hope that these legal norms and provisions will certainly stop any stretching by newspaper articles, by television shows, that any calling of the population most responsible for the Croatian Homeland will stop. I hope that these forms that are given, these indices that have been used in the calculation of the pension, these formulas that have been written, can certainly show everyone that clearly and transparently wants to say without any hiding what they belong to and how much rights they exercise. It is true that the Croatian state is rich enough to ask for more, but because we wanted it so much, because we love it so much today we cannot ask for all the long economic world to be neglected to develop an economy, employment and everything else to stop because it would give Croatian defenders too much income. They are in line with the possibilities and I certainly believe that by the second reading we will still have a certain few meetings where we will say what could possibly be done to make everyone happy. I know that my disabled comrades have objections but they are reasonable in that the state budget cannot be tolerated, that not even the citizens of Croatia, everyone else does not want to be further supported by both the workplace and the children's allowance and the care for the elderly and everything else. There's so much and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24102	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative, Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24103	Mr. President, I have to replicate my colleague Djakic. Of the 99 laws passed in this House 81 was passed by emergency procedure. And this law, when the 2005 budget is passed, will already pass. I am truly afraid that the adoption of this law after the 2005 budget does not yet take place by cutting the rights of the defender and that we did not have any money, you know, in the budget we did not vote and so on. And we've had time for this law to enter the procedure before, if not by emergency procedure, then by regular procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24104	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24105	Mr. President, I have to replicate, this law is not in any rush procedure. I said he was timely in the proposal that there was plenty of time for him to discuss in the first reading. That there's enough time between the first and second readings to work as long as it takes. And that it has time to bring it in the second reading to apply from 1.1.2005. And it can't be said that if the funds are planned in such an extent that they're represented here in law, something else will change. It will be presented and planned and in the state budget. And we'll see about that when the state budget comes in. Why do you have any idea why you're prejudicing something that can't happen? It can't happen. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24106	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24107	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored Deputy Prime Minister. Ministers with associates. My colleagues and colleagues. Here's a little bit of an election time when the aces are shone with pumice and no binding passwords. Time has passed, and one of your strongest pre-election promises we will pass a new law on defenders with new significant changes. Returning rights to defenders, restoring dignity, dignity to defenders. Which had passed their coalition hate power was so unscrupulously taken away by the Law on the rights of the 2001 defenders. For months you've announced revolutionary changes, and correcting numerous innumerable injustices that were then done. And what do we do now? Even though you finally said you'd do it immediately as soon as you came to power, it's been 10 full months. But still, we'll agree it didn't take long to wait. Here's to first reading. But that's less important. It is important that all promises have spread to thousands and thousands of pieces, which I believe unfortunately affect almost every defender. It was really naked promises that served as a smoke screen. What you promised most firmly was not done. Your proposal does not provide for a promising increase in disability. It has not been abolished and no payment of participations for defenders and members of their families is foreseen. There is no memory of the reintroduction of benefits for new cars. There's no mention of an extra charge for children of military disabled children. There is no mention of a minimum pension of 60% but a much smaller percentage. There is basically nothing that was fundamental that cost the most, why that former law was declared anti-Croatian where you ended up doing a good job and won the election. And now you're giving up on it. It's basically how it's actually done here and it's been established by the representatives of the SDP club that it's prescribed law with some cosmetic changes. In the end, the figures talk about it. But what we promise is calculated. It costs over five billion dollars. And you have an increase in the difference between the existing law and this proposal for a new law of barely 100,000 kunas. And it's that hundred million kunas, and that's that revolutionary change. It's a lie when you say that the law was passed in cooperation in absolute hearings in agreement with the defense attorneys, and with defense organizations. Which is why you share defense associations. The president of the independent volunteers of Croatia, Ms. Slavica Kruškar, literally says. I quote, "What made us HDZ power is far more perfidious and rude than anything else. That's why we have no idea to support this law," she further said she asked to be accepted, that it was not done. THE Ministry gave them a table where no one alive could calculate the lowest pension. And she says, she concludes, that's where we're rudely deceived. Likewise, the president of the Association of Croatian Veterans says that if such a law remains, they will not be able to support it. So I don't know where you're sharing it from, it's not funny. It's not really funny. Because that's what the associations are talking about and you're saying that you've reached agreement with the associations. The truth is the president is our parliamentary representative, a member of the HDZ at the head of the association says he agrees with this proposal but he's also real and says this. Croatian defenders fought not for money but for Croatia. And that's true. That's all it was worth then and beyond the time of the former government. So, what happened? That's something I mean to answer here and give an answer to. What a relationship towards associations at the end is not only a question and a defence but everyone else and especially a defence one is not just a matter of adopting both consent and consensus, but of otherwise the government's relations with associations. It is a question at the end of democracy and strengthening civil life. And as the government refers to associations, they give some real selections. They only gave us associations to celebrate power, or they would be a control mechanism of power or in some way and take over part of their responsibility. It's the foundation of a healthy democratic life. And the development of civilian life. But until yesterday, many associations were abused. Yesterday, putting up posters was a patriotic act, a couple of excelances. And today, at least as our prime minister says, it's group members, when beautiful posters, with very, very, very dubious intentions, say the Prime Minister. Yesterday, it was currently decided not by world powers. The Hague, the International Monetary Fund, as an expression that did not, was the expression of the greatest patriotism, the higher Croatian self-esteem. And today their will to forgive us not for us but for you has the power of absolute law while the HDZ was in opposition yesterday was bitterly opposed to co-operation with The Hague court. And today she's the boss of trust. Today, The Hague is very popular. But why am I saying this? I am speaking precisely because it is also an irresponsibility in the opposition and irresponsibility of the government that and today when Croatia is asked for impossible conditions, it leaves one suspicion of Croatia's unworthyness or unbelief. And that's not how it's supposed to be. According to this ejah here, I'm talking about abuse often of associations and the most dangerous thing is when es is doing it with associations derived from the Homeland War. Because if we had some pictures and then we were in opposition, we'd be more at heart and less on walls and Croatia, and we'd all have a lot less problems today. Yesterday, from the DSZ's opposition times, the Hague indictments served as something that would destabilise the Croatian government, and today it is running away from these issues as the devil from the incense, so that the Croatian public would not get too excited with them. Today, for us, it is a simple legal and even legal, administrative problem. Yesterday, the Defense Association was being abused for these purposes, and that's why I'm talking about it here. And thus the dignity and of the war of the land and of the defender shall be defended, that they may be given to everyone who belongs to him without being abused. And to return to the very law that seems very dangerous to me for the legal certainty of the defenders themselves, which is that this syntagma of the "dead defender" is now being abolished, the new term "deadly injured defender" is being proposed. It opens up a great opportunity for volunteering. This is what we're going to give, this is not what we're going to do. He's gonna have a lot of problems. The least of the problems are that the courts will have problems, rather than that of a specific defender. And there's no adequate control and protection of the defense attorney's interests, because, under the terms of the defense attorneys in the category, those who are not defenders can get involved, and they are doing it to the harm of the defense attorneys. Therefore, the control system and the mechanism are in defense of the truth and the interests of the defenders themselves, and this is not here. Madam Minister of the Court is just the current procedure, it is those who have abused the entire system that have falsified such charges, falsified the documentation, and it is this person who is now on the run, and ten people are covered by this procedure. We therefore need to strengthen the control mechanism in order to precisely protect and fund the defences and defenders themselves. And here I am, time is running out, what to say, we cried until yesterday over fate, I believe our tears haven't dried up, but who cares about consistency, we leave it to losers, some idealists of consistency. And what do we have left? He's paying for his beloved land.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24108	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have pleaded, asked and appealed to such a character of debate that will not cause many reactions. In this debate, we have in this debate, Mrs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, eleven corrections of incorrect allegations and one replica. More tolerance, more understanding and more reality, less entry of a particular kind of policy that is then answered, less accusations, and then better solve what we are here for, and that is to solve and try to find the best solutions for the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Returning to an uninterrupted past, mutual accusations won't get us anywhere, but let's take a turn and learn a lesson. The first correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24109	Your Honor, Mr. President, I can turn a correction to an incorrect quote because I've come forward with a replica. I can replicate so it'll get better.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24110	You once reported for correcting an incorrect quote, and twice for replication. I followed that closely.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24111	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24112	You're giving up correcting an incorrect quote, so you'll be in line when the replica arrives?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24113	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24114	That's it. Okay. Other respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24115	Mr. President, by respecting what you said, we still have to correct some incorrect allegations. In fact, it is quite clear, especially after such a move by counterpart Anticevic-Marinovic, that she and her own party are the revolution especially of the communists in the blood, but HDZ is not, so it is incorrect that HDZ promised some revolutionary, revolutionary changes and revolutionary changes. HDZ has promised a fair law and it is before us. HDZ has promised a law that will be in line with all associations and it is agreed and it is incorrect also that HDZ shares associations, it does not share them, it has collaborated with all associations, or their representatives, with representatives who nominated these same associations to co-operate with the ministry in preparing this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24116	Dear representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24117	Thank you very much. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Agent Anticevic. Madam representative, you said it was smoke promises, so smoke, Ms. Secretary's smoke promises that those promises will not be carried out. That's not true. It is true that this law is enforceable and financially covered. It's true and it's a fact and it stands in this bill of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24118	Dear Representative Bekavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Anticevic-Marinovic said there was no mention of importing a car for people with disabilities from the Homeland War, which is not true. Article 60(3) of this Law states that Croatian military, wartime disabled from Homeland Work from 2nd to 4th group whose damage to the organism has been established as a result of damage to the function of extremities and visual impairment, has the right to import a personal car without paying customs duties, in particular taxes and value added tax in the amount of the determined percentage of damage to the organism every five years. Isn't that for you, dear colleagues, the disabled of the Homeland War?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24120	Dear Representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24121	Thank you, Mr. President and Madam Vice President. Obviously, a part of the tactics is a demagogy, and I appear to correct the allegations that my colleague Anticevic reiterated the claim that this is a prescribed law. But since democracy has short legs and this isn't 74th, I'm correcting the quote in 2004. It is not prescribed by the SDP law, but rather SDP's law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24122	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24123	My colleague Bekavac hurt the Rules of Procedure because he fixed something, or he misread me,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24124	An article?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24125	Article 269 because...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24126	Which one?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24127	Based on the 209th, I'm raising a bat, 214 because he said what I didn't say, I didn't say it was about introducing, or not introducing car privileges for disabled people, but generally for defenders. So I make that difference, but you don't seem to be making a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24128	Comrade Antičević, you are an excellent lawyer, in 209. you know that it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and 214 are the envisaged tightening measures, the MP is given a warning if so, etc. So you were correcting, and you were correcting a quote that was not lawful. ... How did he use it? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, I can't be an arbiter. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Honorable representative Maria Byte. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Speaking of the bill, Ms. Anticevic said that all the promises were scattered in a thousand pieces, that is not true, because the proposal for a law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families was proposed by the Croatian Government and kept its promise in agreement with defence associations and we are not like you that we promised to adopt the Privatisation Act at the first session of the Croatian Parliament, so you brought it to the last one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24130	Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24131	No, I didn't answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24132	Honorable representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24133	It is a completely incorrect quote by Mrs. Anticevic, to quote: "It is prescribed by law with some cosmetic changes". That is incorrect because if it were true and if it were prescribed law then probably, as in 2001, outside the Parliament building, they would be large forces of the Ministry of the Interior, and up at the gallery would not be representatives of the associations. That's why I'm showing your inaccuracies where you said this wasn't consistent with defense organizations. It's consistent with those associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24134	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24135	Mr. President, it's an incorrect assumption that we're misusing associations. With a large number of associations, it is normal that some associations will keep their opinions on their own terms. It's also an incorrect assumption that it's your law, colleague. As you claim, cosmetically improved, so if he hits any defender as he's just guessed yours who hasn't been improved.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24136	Dear Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24137	Your Honor, Mr. President, it's an incorrect assumption that associations can be abused and that's completely ignorant of the character and the people of those. They can't be abused, no one can manipulate them. These are people who have their pride and dignity, and there is no party or individual to manipulate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24138	Dear Representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24139	Mr. President, I'm out. Already Mr. Jarnjak and Markovanovic have said everything about abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24140	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24141	Dear Mr. President, I will replicate Mrs. Antunovic in a normal calm tone. An antique. Because her quotes in the presentation of the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders, she has indeed forgotten, she has forgotten everything that has happened and all that has happened has been forgotten. I have to repeat because in this House I have already talked about it once, and it is about 500 families of the dead Croatian defenders who have been denied the right, the powerless old men and mothers who lost their swear of acceptance during the 2001 Law. Also, over a thousand and 500 people with disabilities from the Homeland War lost their status with your audit. And don't go back to what happened, say, we didn't have a beat, we didn't understand enough Croatian defenders, we went to the bottom of them, and then you'll actually get support with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24142	Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24143	Not only do we have support, but part of the SDP is a large number, but we're not going to, and we can count ourselves, they're actually defenders. It's about that. I haven't forgotten anything, but it's less important that I'm here as a member of an opposition party now to forget something. But you haven't forgotten anything, you've forgotten everything. We never went to the bottom but we walked in the truth, but now you've come to collect so you can't make what you promised, gentlemen. And we told you that, and that's the problem. You're in that trouble now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24144	Just before I read the correction of the incorrect quote at that speed I wrote Peter Mlinarić, it was actually Darka Milinovic. Here you go, correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24145	Thank you, Mr. President. I will correct the incorrect allegation of the distinguished representative Antičević and quote: "make the difference between the associations of the ancients of the Homeland War". Of course, your finding is addressed to the Croatian Democratic Community and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On the contrary, you are asking for a signature of loyalty as a prerequisite for inclusion in the state budget to make a difference between associations, so we will say, HVIDRA is not included in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24146	I take care of the Rules of Procedure, but we all take care of him and the weather. Dear Representative Drago Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24147	Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Minister with his associates. Namely, I have finished my final speech on the defenders and the final amendments to the Law on Croatian Defences by calling for this Law that was then in preparation to really be the last law we will talk about in this way in the House. Because really frequent changes or the adoption of laws are also certainly not on that path to protecting the dignity of the defenders we all believe we all want. And here's the law that I would call one real result of real promises from the defenders on the one hand and on the other hand the real financial opportunities this country has at the moment. It is pointed out here, and I think that this Law makes it possible, a more even distribution of funds, precisely what the previous laws did not well regulate in my opinion, between members, or persons who had HRVI status and those who died, or those who were injured with the other defence population. And finally, I think it's very important to stress that the law is fully enforceable, not just declarative. Perhaps it would be good to highlight a few details of this Law which I personally like and I think they are very correct and concrete, which is to include members of the HoS and armed national protection teams in the possibility of obtaining the status of Croatian defenders. Who was in the war and who hung out with people who were members of these troops, well knows what they were doing during the Homeland War. The second is the introduction of the lowest pension institute, and I believe that, regardless of the recommendations about its height, we have protected the very most socially endangered part of Croatian defenders. I would like to remind myself that it has been good 15 years since the start of the Homeland War and that, unfortunately, such defenders who will not be able to provide their pension in a different way have. And as a doctor, I want to point out for me also a good, quality decision to allow the patient to extend the deadline. Because it is very incorrect, and at the very least beyond the knowledge of the profession to limit the period of latence between causes and the occurrence of the disease by one administrative measure. If I had to admit, I'd be even more liberal here. I think my colleague Vukusic will agree with me safely. There have been so many words here about consensus and the need for consensus to pass this Law. I really do not dispute one good intention of all those who have spoken about it and indeed because of those who, above all Croatian defenders, such a decision would mean a lot. I must admit that it might be good to do what really bothers me personally, to remind myself that even today about some of the important things that determine our newer history and the Homeland War, it seems to me, there is no consensus, or it is often a declarative nature. Well, I would really not like to believe that there are different opinions today about who was the aggressor, and who the victim of this war, who these countries were aggressor to the Republic of Croatia during the Homeland War, really still seems to me unwell that the requests of the defenders are not seen as requests for privileges but as requests for rights to them as the people who participated in the creation of this country do indeed belong. It seems to me that, unfortunately, I also say for years after the Homeland War ended, and despite the fact that both the historical facts are very clear and the day remains one of the problems that little talk about today. And these facts and the need for consensus on these things, about these historical events, will of course not change the Law but rather a fair relationship with their own history, towards participants and history who seek the expressed sensitivity of such events in the history of a nation and deserve. Of course, it should not be forgotten that the sense of responsibility and responsible behaviour of the government by creating conditions for a rich, normal state is primarily worthy of its defenders and is also part of the responsible tasks. This Law, along with those laws that we have had during this year, has, above all, been amended by the Law on the Defence Fund, the Law on the Memorial-Documentation Centre is certainly on the way to really in the right sense, to return the position, reputation and dignity of the defenders as they deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24148	Thank you very much. One replica, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24149	Mr. President, I'd like to replicate my colleagues on this part where they say that Croatian defenders, meaning from my discussion that half of them will die by the time they get the right. It was simply intended to say that 300 to 400% of defenders suffer in this Croatia more than the population of the rest of the population, and I honestly think that while Croatian defenders come into the situation to exercise their rights but not with a bad intention, means at age, etc., that the great mortality of these defenders will be cut off, therefore, I remain in that claim that we will not damage the much budget of the Republic of Croatia by giving defenders 45 or 50% of their own personal income in the Republic of Croatia to have as some of the lowest pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24150	Thank you. The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Drago Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24151	I must admit it's very difficult for me to respond to the replica, my colleague has remained in his position, I remain in my position, knowing a large number of people who, under this law, will have the right and will gain that possibility of this right that this Law is passed, I still consider it to be one of the best new segments or parts of this Law. And as for this second act, that many because of the disease will not, clearly and increased mortality as well as professionally established, they will have the opportunity precisely because of this extension of the period of application based on the disease of obtaining the status of disabled people to have the opportunity to come to that second position of gaining rights on other grounds. So I haven't seen any big differences besides your fear and fear that this part of the law won't be applied so often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24152	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Family and Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24153	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I reported after the presentation of Ms. Marinović-Anticevic, who is not here right now, but I still have a few things to say for the public. In no way would it be good if, at the end of this debate, there were some things that were half-truths, fictions, or simply an attempt to manipulate. As far as the association is concerned, I made it very clear that defense associations support this Law. We also confirmed this joint intensities agreement on the draft bill at the press conference, where all representatives of the co-ordination associations, plus the HVIDR plus the widows' association other than Mr Mercep. So it is completely incorrect that Ms. Slavica Khrushkar did not accept this Law because she was present at the press conference. Also not that it is incorrect but it is incorrect a billion percent that Mr. President of the Veterans Association and that is, as you all know, Mr. General Djuro The Boy does not support this Law because exactly the opposite of Mr. Boy's associations have authorized to speak on behalf of everyone at that press conference. So, at the press conference where we talked about the Law, Mr. Boy, the president of the Veterans Association, who gathers about 200 thousand Croatian defenders and I spoke as a minister, all the other representatives of the associations were present so that I firmly reject any thesis on the manipulation of associations. All of you who know how associations work, all of you who have ever been with any Croatian defender or member of a defense family once in a while know that this is absolutely impossible, and I also warn this would be the ultimate underestimation of associations or members of associations, these are the people behind whom experience is, these are the people who have defended and defended Croatia who would defend them and in what way and what, which promises they could manipulate. So, I absolutely want to deny it most decisively. In addition, Mrs. Advocacy may not have been, I did not follow, she may not have been at the beginning of today’s debate, so she may not have followed what I said about the most important signs of this Law, perhaps the Law did not read or read it to the end, so she does not know that we have announced revolutionary changes. We never would have announced revolutionary changes in our sleep, but since she claimed that all promises had been made, of course it is in conflict with the support we receive around the Law, but I would like to maybe again maybe she will be silent, some of the most important elements that speak of what we have recently entered into the Law. We give prisoners in the enemy camp the right prescribed by the 96 law to have the status of the 10th group Croatian military invalid means at least 20% permanent damage. The peace of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War reached according to the general rule, so the Pension Insurance Act increases from 10% to 30% depending on the time of participation in the Homeland War. I don't think it's smoke or soap or anything that's spread into a billion pieces. Then, we introduce the first time, I repeat once again, for the first time a brand-new institute of the lowest protected pensions for Croatian defenders, so 45% of the average salary in Croatia, so something completely new that allows Croatian defenders to meet the conditions laid down in the general rules of the lowest pension of 1773 kuna, so something that has never been, something that really turns to Croatian defenders, and to claim that it is an empty promise that has spread I think is simply difficult to accept. Also, customs and tax reliefs for the import of a private car would be recognised as different from the applicable law to persons with disabilities 2 to 4 whose damage to the organism results in damage to the limb function or visual impairment would also mean damage to the lower and damage to the upper extremities. Then, the basis for the establishment of the right to the family disability of members of the family of the dead Croatian defender from the Homeland War who died or killed increased from a valid 40 to 50%. It's not soap and it's not smoke and it's not something that's scattered. The family disability and the deceased Croatian wartime invalid, 1st to 4th group, who used the care and assistance of another person, rose from the current 15 to 25% of the base. Not to list again all those provisions concerning children of the dead Croatian defenders, of the family, and now I return to my promises. I also remind the lady of the distinguished representative of the SDP and HSLS project at the end of the 99th year that he spoke about so-called. open door. It was a project for Croatian defenders. Among other things, there were also talks about sick deadlines and about a number of other promises to Croatian defenders of the project that was valid I repeat, weighing around 19 billion kunas. However, something else has happened, as you know for example, the right to care for 100% of people with disabilities from the Homeland War I group has been abolished. Remember all those who were representatives of the last meeting of the painting when we were lined up by the gruesome images of Croatian wartime disableds and groups in a wheelchair blind, with no legs and arms and when we fought for the return of that institute to law. I don't want to go on about fake people with disabilities, etc., about an MMPI2 test that suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder literally led to the edge of endurance that we finally removed and abolished. Therefore, it is not good for us to respect all that the former government has abolished and I don't think it will bring us anywhere. I continue to appeal that this debate should be turned to the future, not to mention the past, because this is not the Law on the Past, this is the Law on the Future, on how we will ensure a decent and dignified life for Croatian defenders and members of their families. And in the end, since Mrs. Advocacy spoke of crying in the past as Croatian defenders, and that's what we came up with. To confirm he cried, for example, Mr. Darko Beshtek, that's true. And today, however, we are speaking realistically with associations, speaking to Croatian defenders realistically. And if anyone understands the situation in which Croatia is both economic and social, they are. And in the end, it is not true, too, that the HDZ was against co-operation with the International Tribunal in The Hague. I remind you of the time when the Co-operation Act and everything we've said before was passed, and of course what we're talking about today in the Croatian Government. Finally, Mr. Representative, I'm glad you find it funny. More clarification to Ms. Prosecutors on the concept of the death-sufficient Croatian defender. Namely, the problem should be known, it is something that the Croatian defenders of their associations have insisted on, it is about the fact that some have died, some have been killed, and some have died from the consequences of the injury, that is, the consequences of the torture and this is one way of actually equating them and that their rights, which they have, are derived from everything they have actually endured in this Law and confess. So it's not some invention of this government or the Ministry, it's something that's just been brought into line with life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24154	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24155	It's an incorrect claim by the Deputy Prime Minister that the promises didn't go off like soap balloons. Here's a balloon that's getting dirty. On October 18, 2001, Madam Vice President here with your signature of the amendment, you are asking that the monthly amount of a disabled disabled person from Group II to Group 10 be identical to the percentage of personal disability. Which means for Group II 100%, and now that you're able to offer something, you're now offering 73%. You asked for 90% of the group for III, you're offering 55. For IV you asked 80 you offer 41. I can't list it all because I can't make it. You asked for 20% for the X group, and you're offering 3%. Why don't you offer what you asked for on October 18, 2001, with your amendment with your signature, I can show it to you if you don't believe me? It's a soap balloon.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24156	Comrade Stazić, you are putting into one context the amendments that are representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community Club which the Club put in place during the discussion of the Law on Amendments, the additions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War 2001 with one, with one construction with election promises from HDZ ahead of these elections. It is quite two different things, and, but I thank you, if we are gentlemen and ladies to go with the fact that we are quoting which political party is at the time of the position or opposition, which is in a particular debate, which the amendments were filed in which the law and I am putting into context with this now, then we will come to such positions that we have come to because they were the cause of the great tensions that prevailed in this House, and also if we put it in a context that someone who was in 99 years was an opposition to what amendments and proposals were then submitted to the budget regarding the Law on Defence and sums that should be realized for them. I beg you to plead that we do not return to the past all the time. This is a law relating to the present and future for Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. We're going to cause an uninterrupted not only delay in the debate, but we're going to lead to that kind of controversy constantly returning to the past by confrontationing what someone has said to the opposition, the position that we're going to simply lose the real purpose and the purpose of why we're discussing this law. Here you go, Mr. Stazic, I'm asking you to lead on this, it's not just directed, it's not directed towards you in general. I'm pleading again, because it repeats that kind of debate, replica, correcting false allegations that don't lead us towards the goal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24157	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for giving me your word, but I wouldn't have called if this argument hadn't been so long and so exhausting. No, it's really not my intention to discredit someone, I'm just wondering why now that we're in a position to achieve what we offered four years ago, we simply don't do it in the interest of the ones we offered it to do it then, and we're proposing nothing else. Mr. President of the Parliament, so this isn't politicizing the subject. This is really caring to make those amendments come true that are so warm and justifiable... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24158	The minister and vice president answered the floor. We have another correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24159	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I welcome the statement by the Deputy Prime Minister that they, I think, were the first to co-operate with the International Court in The Hague. I have nothing to add to that, but I would have it on the application of the MP2 that brought Croatian defenders to the brink of endurance. Please don't underestimate Croatian defenders. In the application of the MP2 Regulation, it shall read. This rule is applicable to the reading skills of fourth grade American primary schools and most of the issue is adapted to the intellectual abilities of seventh and eighth grade students of American primary schools. I am sorry that some MPs at the time said that they simply did not know and can not fulfill these 500 questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24160	Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24161	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I have to react because I have to answer the question asked by my colleague, Mr. Trazic. The answer to your question why. That's why, Mr. Stazic, who would have thought in 2001 that the foreign debt would grow and $24 billion. It's an external debt inherited by this government that the former government left behind and who would of course think that the hole in the budget would be 7.5 billion kuna, who would think. So, we didn't know what the situation was, and we couldn't even imagine that the external debt would be 24 billion, a hole in an estimated 7.5 billion kuna. As far as the MMPI2 is concerned, Mr. Agent, a very short answer. So it's a test that really freaked out Croatian defenders but I beg you don't listen to me. Please contact the president of the association of Croatian defenders of post-traumatic stress disorder Mr. Svedrec and ask him what he thinks and all Croatian defenders who have had problems with the MMPI test2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24162	Thank you. Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24163	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! After less than a year since the takeover of power, we have received a proposal on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Only the time spent says enough how important this law is, how complex it is, and I'd say sensitive. By doing so, more than fifty of us have applied for a hearing, my claims confirm it. I have no idea what to politicize when it comes to this law, and I'm sure that's how we all think about it here, or most of it. Or, briefly, when it comes to Croatian defenders or members of their families, any policy ends. As the brother of three Croatian defenders, I feel the need to say a few words about all Croatian defenders, not only with a rifle on my shoulder but with, not only with a rifle but also with an athlete's brigade, I would say one small contribution to the defence of ours. The very word "Croatian defender" obliges us to speak with great respect and pride about them, not only because they gave all theirs to defend Ours beautiful but also because they are our brothers, relatives, neighbors, boys from our cafes, acquaintances, etc. I can't talk about Croatian defenders, not mention some things that bother me very much. Of some demeaning Croatian defenders, declaring disabled with false, combatants for privileges, and all without any arguments, evidence, and the worst I could hear was that they became disabled returning home, I can't say this, drunk from some sub-slime restaurants. Gentlemen, as a athlete, I was lucky enough to go around the world. I've been to the halls and seen the defenders of many countries, disabled in a wheelchair, and when we listen to what some of our politicians say, I can't help but look back. As a parent of two schoolboys, I am concerned and bothered by the lack of education of children about the Homeland War. As a student of the former state, I had to know every day and night all the offensives, all the SCOY secretaries, what was who ate, what he said, what he said the last words he said when he died. Gentlemen, it's not funny. I'm telling you from personal experience what I've been learning for 12 years. Every day at noon and midnight, I had to know all the SCOY secretaries. And why did I tell you all this? Why? Our children in schools very little learn about the Homeland War, about the heroes of the Homeland War, about defenders who have defended one superhuman effort and defended our beautiful one so that all of us could do as we deserve. I believe there is nothing more beautiful, more honorable but binding that we teach our children the values of the creation of the state, the values of Croatian defenders, their heroic exploits, the victims, everything else they have done for this unfortunate period. So what now? After eight years we meet in the House of Commons and discuss and nothing spectacular can be brought, we can't do a thing because Croatian defenders, I've had a lot of conversations, I've visited rehabilitation institutions, they're asking for only one thing from all of us. They're looking for dignity. We have to give them dignity, respect, not war profiteers, not frauds, all kinds of people. We must work together to ensure that every Croatian defender, every Croatian disabled person in a wheelchair has our respect and that we will certainly satisfy most of them. We must also give them the dignity of how they were worthy and defending and defending Croatia. And going back to the bill of this law, I didn't say much about the law, because everyone else is going to talk about the law, who brought it, when he brought it, whether it was prescribed from this one, which I don't think Croatian defenders are interested in. They're only interested in getting back what they're trying to take away, taking away their dignity. We can't let that happen. And now finally they return to the proposal, I think that this Law on the best way, that on the best way to resolve that dignity for one reason because it was, he was brought in agreement with everything, so I can say with all the gangs, maybe one or two did not support but all associations came out of the Homeland War gave support, because I personally talked to many and got this bill and all the associations received support. And the point of this law itself is that he should be, that he be enforceable, means that he is able to spend as painlessly as possible in part without being declared. When we were in November last year, I personally went on a campaign with Madam Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, never mentioned any of the things that are listed today. We have always said that we will restore dignity to the Croatian defender wherever he is, in which place beautiful ours. And normally take care and care of their family members. And I can safely claim that this law will confirm that. I would like to make another request in the end, let's not talk about Croatian defenders only when we're here in the Parliament, when we get the Law on Croatian Defences, when there's an affair in the newspaper as a Croatian defender did that and then we talk about it for five days. We always talk at every moment, in every place about the Croatian defender, the superlative defenders because they deserve it. Let's forget in the end all of which we're from, from which right, left, let's forget party disagreements at least today. Let's not make any political points on something sacred to all of us. Because neither one of us has the right to hold any defenders, nor me here and Mr. Leco there as far away from me as possible. They are all, they are also Croatian defenders and they fought under no flag but only under one flag, the flag of our beautiful Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24164	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Lino Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24165	Mr. President of the Parliament, members of the ministry. As a athlete, I argue, and some politicians have given me the right to not actually need a political decision in Croatia, we need gentlemen of moral renewal of a society that respects ethical and all other values. Our Croatian reality was best photographed by the late Mr. Zarko Dolinar, scientist doctor of anatomy, genetics, pathology but a great athlete, winner of the Order of the Just, the highest ethical recognition that says: it is obvious that in Croatia everyone is arguing, competing, wasting precious time and energy, and the people are poor, uneducated, dissatisfied, unemployed, unemployed and unhappy. I made sure for a short time that politics was a damn thing. At one point in time, all mouths will be shrugged about national dignity and pride about protecting national interests so that at another moment it will give up without anyone blushing because some other goals will seem greater, more likely, more useful. In its pre-election programme for parliamentary elections, the Croatian Democratic Community has shown itself to be the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, so on defence relations, as a measure of state self-respect. Let's be honest and admit that other parties of opposition other than HSP and did not stress the problem of Croatian defenders' rights in their election programmes. Without this uprising, it is very difficult to trust debates about some sincere concern about the lives of Croatian defenders and members of their families. I know that the main speakers from the parties in the Parliament as well as the usual lawyers, professors of philosophy and literature, psychologists who can best articulate the views of their parties or their political mentors, but also polarise people. So, it's not about politicians by walk-in, it's about focused MPs. In fact, this is also the main reason for the poor view of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and, in a certain way, a negative assessment for all speakers is mainly for those who are crampingly catching up with the Assembly microphone. This is a classic example of how precious time is spent ineffectively and ineffectively. Today, when it comes to the bill's proposal, the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, the excessive play of words and rhetoric of quarrels, hatred and suspicions and division of Croatian beings with the resources available in the state budget wants to address in the best way for a long time the problem of people who together with the victims of the Homeland War gave everything they could for today's free and independent state of Croatia. They gave or risked their lives, mothers gave their sons and husbands. Why they gave their lives rather than for us, for our children, our grandchildren, to live in peace as our own. I didn't mention what left of those people, they lost their homes, they ran out of houses, they had nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, they've been deprived of the right to live a worthy man. And don't forget these are people who never once looked death in the eye. Of course, there is no need to resist the broad democratic debate of the various options, proposals and solutions. However, I remind some here in the Parliament that in 2002 and 2003 there was no one from the state summit in Knin on the Day of Victory and Homeland Thanksgiving. How to interpret it differently than to say that something with our victory was wrong. It's not a hypocrisy of ladies and gentlemen, hypocrisy is of the people of that option, to be heroicd by patriots and caring for defenders and members of their families by offering them honey and milk. No, I don't want to say as if it's about how one of them is stronger, very nationally-oriented, it's about patriotism and patriotism, and the other one's about to be liberally oriented. After all, patriotism is part of life as a historical value. However, there is no common concern about the division of guilt in the Homeland War and the care of defenders. So, the the thesis where at one point the postulates were raised by the Croatian state while at the second moment the big elected words speak of all sorts of solutions for achieving the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. Not to talk about those MPs and not only those who play overseers and insist as if they want to prove that half of Croatian defenders are a set of fake heroes, robbers, bluffers and imaginary patients. And that's what ladies and gentlemen insults and hurts. That minimisation brings people to despair. That humiliation also kills a healthy man. That's not right. By supporting the bill, it proposes that with a lot of dignity, understanding, respect and dignity, we talk about the proposal for a law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, calling for consensus, regardless of possible differences regarding the finding of options of legal solutions. In the most difficult moments of sports struggle, we drew strength on examples of Croatian defenders, for example their courage, strength and determination. The message, therefore, is for athletes that Croatian bile and envy have devoured the nation for too long and made life very difficult for the brave on their way to the top. And that's why it's time for harmony and unity. Otherwise, I do not see how we will find suitable solutions for Croatia in the economy, production, science, technology and any other areas of life. Ladies and gentlemen, except for the struggle for human survival, nothing is more important than honesty, justice and identity. There's still a chance, there's hope. Let's prove with our support that these people who are without exception in charge of the people in front of the day-to-day policy. Thank you. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24166	Thank you. We have two replicas. Dear Representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed and respected representative Lino Cervar began very realistically. I thought it would continue in that tone and that the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences would be observed through the real state of the state of society and the economy of the Republic of Croatia. And that it will see through whether it is possible to achieve what is proposed, is the proposal just and fair to those to whom it applies, and will it be able to withstand the economy of the Republic of Croatia this much or more? And then he continues to discredit those who think differently. The proposal itself and continues to fight for the better past of its side. I don't mind, but then we shouldn't call for consensus. It is realistic to turn to the future and assess the possibilities of this society and then call for consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24168	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Lino Cervar. Answer, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24169	Can I at the end? Yeah, I can now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24170	Replication response. You asked for an answer to the replica, did you?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24171	Yeah. There's only one thing I wanted to say, and you won't blame me, of course. Like this, I'm a man of the people. There's a theory about me. And listen, that's my opinion. I respect everyone, I respect you both, and you probably had a reason why you said that, but I'm what I am again, a athlete and I say they still have politicians plenty of pot on their heads. And that's why there's a German proverb that says, "If you have a butter on your head doesn't come out in the sun."
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24172	Replica, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24173	You are a athlete, Mr. Cervar, but there's more of us here athletes, but this isn't a dressing room. You are here, you are here in a constant way to teach everyone in Croatia a lesson about how not to argue. Of course it's very popular and many will like it and you've probably provided some points, but I objectively think that we have the right and that we are mature enough to think differently. No one needs to think about any of us. We don't all need to think the same thing. The second thing is that we should get a consensus on being national issues. But on these issues, you gentlemen, these questions are not on the agenda. These are the questions that are our priorities in Europe? How are we going to increase exports and hire people? That's what we need a consensus on. How are we going to deal with our neighbors and our borders and everything else? But those questions don't come to the agenda. We need a consensus on this, but we need and we can think and talk about anything, and we need to talk about it in this assembly. And secondly, I'll tell you, defenders, defenders, every honor and opportunity. But, gentlemen, the defense attorney, everyone will tell you that it's not an occupation. We were defending the state because it was our country's obligation, our human obligation. The obligation of a Croatian man to defend the state, but not to be his profession. After that, the man should be given a job and others, but not treated as someone who is no longer for work, who is, who needs social assistance, who only needs giving and everything else. It's another thing for disabled people, disabled people, and others who need more help than here, but here it's understated.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24174	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Lino Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24175	I don't think Mr. Agent, he probably didn't understand me. I didn't come here to teach anyone, and this isn't a dressing room. I know very well what to do in the locker room. If I'm talking about it one more time, I'm telling you that athletes know how to connect people, and they don't separate. That's what I said 100 times. And politicians can pollomise people, but one other thing that matters most is that you said there are diversity. I respect what you said and I can't do anything and it's an honor, it, it's nothing. I would just like to say that if it is understood that the moment has come for these questions, in matters of our defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families that it is in everyone's interest, especially if we want to go to Europe to find solutions, if we have to face different options and eventually reach consensus. And I think that's what we all do if we love our country and respect our defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24176	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24177	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government, gentlemen of the Ministry, respected representatives of association of defence, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a new Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and members of their families. This is one of those important pre-election promises, and it is very important for me that the government has fulfilled it already in the first year of its term. There have been criticism and haste and other proposals. If we've waited a little longer, I think with this new bill, we can all be satisfied, and certainly most of all, the ones most concerned. These are the most relevant Croatian defenders and their families. It is evident that the procedure for the recognition of the rights under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers will be implemented much faster and by simpler procedure than before. I think it's important that es return this and some of the rights prescribed by the 1996 Law that have been abolished by the 2001 law. These are brought and recognised by some new rights for Croatian defenders, especially volunteers from the Homeland War. There is, in particular, the most news in the area of pension rights. Article 31 specifically regulates the lowest pension, which is very positive and commendable because for the first time Croatian defenders who are not disabled are being dealt with. This enables them to have a somewhat guaranteed decent income on their way to a retirement or disability pension. Article 35 of the Employment Right is well prescribed. But as so far, this should be very rigorously controlled because of course we are far from doing it now because there have been a lot of audits and have not given some results but I say that if all the receipts in the above-mentioned institutions and businesses are thought of by the state, local self-government, public, there would probably be a lot of abuse. Therefore, I should also stress this by law that the responsible persons who would abuse this article should be sanctioned by firing. Retirement insurance rights Articles 13 and 14 Because so far, the status of defenders has not affected the level of retirement. The new law introduces an increase in the pension by 10 to 30% depending on the time spent in the Dovin War. Article 15 shall return to the exercise of the right to a disability pension and in the event of reduced working capacity. It was already in Law 96, but it was abolished in 2001. Articles 16 to 20 are prescribed a special starting factor which is applied differently depending on the type of calculation of the special in the case of defenders with the status of Croatian military disabled Guard troops and volunteers. Article 21 provides for Croatian defenders who make a disability pension under conditions and in a manner prescribed by the pension insurance law, his pension is increased again depending on his participation in the Homeland War. The past 2001 law gave that after a professional rehabilitation was completed, the Croatian defender applied to the Croatian Employment Service and belonged to a fee of 12 months. Now, according to this bill of law, it's 24 months. A new legal institute is being introduced in relation to the previous law, the minimum pension institute of 45% of the average net salary. Now Articles 36 to 50 regulate the right to housing, but I would say what I think is very important is the atmosphere and atmosphere in which this law was created. After a long time, the dictionary changed completely in communication between the Ministry i.e. proposers and defence associations. There were no harsh words and no messages. The minister and her team have shown exceptional will and tenacity to resolve all issues in a tolerated dialogue with full respect for defence associations. As a result, I would say this joint bill which is almost an ideal combination on the one hand of the defence associations and the financial power of the state on the other. This is therefore what makes this law valuable because it shows that it will also be enforceable. What should change to another reading is said in personal experience because several defenders and one widow of the dead Croatian defender who has 3 daughters spoke to me. These people will not be solved by a sea called debacle unless Article 37 of this bill is amended, which says who does not have the right to provide housing. Article 37 needs to be changed in that section that says that the right to care for housing does not have those defenders who are residently provided under the Law on Reconstruction. All these defenders were reported not as restorers, but as members of the household and according to the law of restoration that went as well as 35 + 10 squares for each member of the family. So it turns out and that's actually the whole truth, that a few defenders from the field of special public concern over 10 squares of the restored parenting house have lost the right to apartment or housing care and now I have to say from experience that they are experiencing drama. If we add to this that generally these defenders did not even know that their parents or relatives had put them back together, you can imagine how they feel today. Therefore, Article 37 should be amended to read. If it is housed by the law of restoration and added as the holder of the renovation, in such a way that the renovated house or apartment was the fourth, fifth or sixth categories of damage. Believe me, there aren't many of these defenders mostly in the jettisoned squad brigades were in the 4 guard brigades and so on. So they simply cannot come out of this vicious circle until they change, or until the second reading is put on if they were not bearers of restoration. That means if the house isn't on them, but if it's on their parents, then they actually got between six and eight thousand kunas and they lost. And now they've already got families moving out of the apartments. I'd like it to be taken care of, and I'll try to deliver and amend this article in Article 37 that regulates it. However, it is necessary to say and defile all who participated in the drafting of this law. That he returns not only some rights but also dignity to the Croatian defender. My colleagues and colleagues have finally been given a law that doesn't change beyond every election. It would be nice, therefore, to bring it by consensus of all parties in the Croatian Parliament. That would be a very nice message to all the defenders if there were no political bickering when it comes to the interests of those who are very much of who we are grateful for the state and the freedom that we enjoy today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24178	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24179	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable representative of the Ministry of Family, Croatian defenders and intergenerational solidarity, respected representatives of the Associations of Homeland War. Going out with this Bill on the Rights of Croatian Defences and members of their families was an imperative of this government, but also of others that it was in this place, because the law of November 2001 was simply unsustainable, and thus all those unfavorable events and dissatisfactions and dissatisfaction with Croatian defenders. To all of them, the message was very clear. According to some, the law was long awaited, long worked on. I believe that's not the case, because if it was in consultation with all those concerned by this law and whose rights are being spoken of, and if it was participated by all the associations that came from the Homeland War, and that everything but one supported it, then it was concluded that it took time. Besides, this should be a tour of how every law works. This Law restores the dignity of the Croatian defender. It's said, how? Through a law that prescribes both his rights and his family members, as I narrow down, and so spread. This bill of law did not even see the light of day, and there was a cry for it to be a set of free desires. The law is fair and enforceable. That he is just, we see by the scope of the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families, because in one article they say, all the dead Croatian defenders of the Homeland War have the right to bury with military honor, no more, this one has, this one no, but all the dead defenders. And the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity bear the cost. The second is said, all prisoners in enemy camps are recognised the status of the Croatian military invalid at least 10th group, or at least 20% of the permanent damage to the organism. One of the articles says, and the circle of the dead and wounded extends to members of the fire department, as well as to members of civil protection. The second is said to all Croatian military disabled in the Homeland War, the right to medical and physical rehabilitation is recognised. So if only these listed rights include all the law can be no different than just. That the law is enforceable, speak between these two facts. First. It is essential to reduce the scope of the documentation for the recognition of rights, and secondly that it is enforceable, speak and the financial resources with which this Government has gone public and says that 3,641,000 kuna and 0 June are needed for the enforceability of all these rights, meaning that the implementation of this law is taken into account in the following year. I would refer only to the health condition of a very vulnerabilities population, as well as the morbidity and mortality of the same population. This topic or this problem was dedicated to the thematic session of the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health of the Croatian Parliament held on 4 October this year. The sign of the problem is as a problem recognized and deserves increased attention. In the morbidity and improvement of this population, the diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder and of all patients with this diagnosis is more than 56%. The second is the psychiatric diagnosis without post-traumatic stress disorder and is represented in 8.04%. In third place, the disease was caused by injuries, 8.99% and wounding 7.94%. And precisely because of this data and this fact it was necessary to post-traumatically, when post-traumatic stress disorder caused by illness, death or suicide to extend that three-day period, or 2 years to 10 years, and even longer with skill in an authorised health care facility. And this law has done it. Clinical studies unquestionably found that war stress has a negative effect on the body. The immune system of the organism has been impaired, and defenders are more susceptible to acute infections that have and weighs the clinical picture, longer duration, and the unorthodox outcome. I personally processed the data on the civilian victims of the Homeland War, the exiles. Children and adults with developmental disorders, driven out of the Vrlika kolovza in 1991, found their temporary refuge in Split and very recently began to improve from acute respiratory infections. Since the conditions of life in persecution did not allow ambulatory treatment, everyone was taken care of at the Clinical Hospital Center and for 7 months 21 people died. Of which, only one accident, when an epileptic attack with an unfortunate blow to the head, was caused by a resulting cerebrovascular stroke. But 20 people died of an auto-respiratory infection that, with all the medical care and all the help at the Clinical Hospital Center, they couldn't cool it down. This has been published by all of the world’s medical records and proved to be a condition of acute illness. My message to these was to send the world a message of the bestiality that happened during the Homeland War in Croatia. Now we can only imagine how many defenders there have been and how much more stressful their reactions are, and we know that the stress is also proportional to the damage. Croatian defenders, more often than other populations, suffer from cardiovascular diseases, cerebro vascular isolates, and partly because of the negative effects of stress on both endocrine systems and more frequently this population has increased blood pressure, hyperlipaemia, hypercholesteria. How much the relationship of society to this population as a country's relationship through the applicable laws can affect, both positively and negatively, this population, I will try to illustrate. The largest number of unemployed defenders in the Republic of Croatia, 3.150, were registered in Split's Dalmatian county during 2003. For example, they were registered in Zagreb County during last year 2,324, and in the Vukovar-Srijem County 2.212. The number of unemployed defenders is just proportional to the number of patients treated in a daily hospital with a diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder, so in the first 6 months of this year in a day hospital, in the Split KBC 1347, it is precisely proportional to this number and to the number of hospitalized defenders with PTSD, 587, and the number of ambulatically treated 9.622. The lesson here is to include them more quickly in the world of work. Why and medically justified acknowledge both medical and physical rehabilitation for all Croatian disabled people? Because stress and inadequate living conditions, and moisture, both winter and trauma are the reason for wartime, early-growing forgiveness, and extensive degenerative changes. They also reduce the quality of life and lead to disability and reduce the life span. For all of these reasons, I support the law with the belief that it will experience changes, but changes in a positive sense, which will be consistent with economic and economic opportunities in the country of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24180	The word has a distinguished representative, Pero Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24181	Mr. Vice President, the honored representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the honored representatives of the victims' associations, colleagues and colleagues. For months now, a number of discussions have been withdrawn in the Croatian public on the new Bill of Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Most often in these discussions in this House and in the Government, especially the ruling party in Croatia, HDZ respects the lack of goodwill and delay in passing such a law. I remind you that this law is part of the pre-election promises of the Croatian Democratic Community, and as it is a very serious issue, it is also necessary to approach it seriously and responsibly. So right at the beginning of my obvious and exposure, I have to say, for a good and quality law, it's never too late. And HDZ, the Croatian government and the Parliament must "cold heads" bring such an important act. Since I come from Vukovar and Croatian Podunnova, the city and part of Croatia that suffered the greatest losses and suffered the greatest sacrifice in this terrible war in the creation of an independent Croatian state, I feel invited to talk about the law itself. I don't think it should be reminded that the Vukovars are still looking for more than five hundred of their loved ones today, as all those defenders, volunteers, members of the ZNG and the People's Protection who fell in the defense of the Croatian City of Heroes still remember. Many civilians were also killed, and the entire city and all its inhabitants survived and survived the horrors of a three - month experience over one city. Thousands of people were exiled and found their temporary roof over their heads throughout Croatia and throughout Europe. The economy and factories have been completely destroyed, and the damage to family homes, apartments and infrastructure has reached hundreds of millions of dollars. Therefore, Vukovar is a symbol of Croatia's struggle for independence and all its defenders are particularly interested in adopting a better quality Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences. The consequences of the terrible war and aggression in Croatia are still felt today among members of the defence population and members of their families. Stress due to all the experiencing, psychological consequences of war events, post-traumatic stress disorder is only part of the health bulletins of veterans of the Homeland War. Unfortunately, in a large number of cases, it is about disability, from those easier forms to the most difficult 100% people with disabilities. Just come to Vukovar, talk to wartime participants, surviving campers from Serbian concentration camps who today die from the consequences of torture and see Croatia in small, the same one Croatia that is famous in 91st year proudly stood before one of the strongest military forces of Europe then. That is why it is necessary to take special care of 35,000 wartime wartime people as long as they are registered in our Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity by September. More than 8,000 families of the dead Croatian defenders should be cared for as well as the necessary support for all those victims of the Homeland War who experience and experience different crises, psychotrams and other consequences of participating and witnessing difficult times of war. For this reason, I believe that the proposed Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence provides comfort, support and fulfillment of the promises we made to our comrades. Without any doubt, I would support the Government's proposal for a law on Croatian defenders, not only because it is better, better quality and more concrete than the previous law with all its amendments, but also because of the fact that in a special way it restores the dignity of the Homeland War, all its participants, especially Croatian wartime people, volunteers, families of the deceased, deceased and missing Croatian defender. What will be particularly grateful to the Croatian Government and the Parliament, all of you esteemed colleagues, Vukovars, and before the sad thirteenth anniversary of the fall of Vukovar, in their own kind of hands, is the fact that in a very concrete way the rights of members of the armed national protection teams are recognised. These men helped numerous civilians to bear one of the greatest burdens in the defence of Vukovar. Today, there are many who have failed to exercise their rights, so the new law corrects the great injustice that has been done to them. Every day in Vukovar, these people and members of their families and I speak to them with a lot of faith in the Croatian government and the Parliament, but I also give final justice hope that there will come a time to correct the injustices and failures that have been committed to them and their loved ones. Unfortunately, what is still the everyday life of Vukovar is the slow and quiet dying of war veterans. Now, let's face it, this isn't about people who, as the people say, have clocked. It's about people whose body, because of disability, was wounded by the heavy beating they suffered during their captivity in Serbian camps, simply and suddenly die before time. Data from the Croatian society of former Serbian concentration campers say new cases of cancer appear daily, resulting from torture and torture that they survived in captivity. That is why I am seeking to move a time provision in which a single participant died from the result of a wound or injury sustained in the defence of Croatia's sovereignty. That date is December 31, 1997, but I assure you, our defenders are still dying today. There is a ease of circumstance in this story of additional skill and determination of the causal link between death and participation in the defence of Croatia. But on behalf of all former campers and colleagues, I demand a little more flexibility. However, this law prescribes most of the details related to this issue, especially the necessary medical documentation to prove these causal linkages. Fear of administrative complications, therefore, has led me to point out that problem. In addition to the symbolism of the discovery, the mention of the markings at the sites of mass graves or the sites of the victims of Croatian defenders, the proposed law makes a number of concrete measures to improve their situation and position, but as normal as their family's life. I will only briefly mention the rights of health, pension and disability insurance, the right to employment, housing and shares, the personal disability, the addition to orthopaedic aids, medical and physical rehabilitation. Their families will also be adequately taken care of. Due to the total credit and the unmistakable prices they have given in defence, Croatia does not need to spend much on the financial projections of the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. They saved neither their bodies nor their lives nor their loved ones, so we must act accordingly. Finally, compared to the annual expenditure we have had to implement the law so far, there is no greater cost, and yet I think that we will take much more quality care of our defenders and their families. It is quite clear that the material satisfaction of this money around which everything revolves, cannot bring back health to our defenders, cannot compensate them for the losses, parts of the body or prevent the suicides of the disappointed, and in particular the families cannot return the loved ones, all those to whom Croatia was at heart, to whom it can be heard these days, Croatia is not a nice property but a homeland and for whom they were willing to give the greatest sacrifice. This law is in fact a confirmation for all of them that neither they nor their merits have been forgotten in light moments of Croatian history. I'm going to quote the Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, who has repeatedly reiterated that this law will restore full dignity to the defenders and fully agree with that finding. This isn't about any privileges or privileges, because we can all be grateful for everything we have today, freedom of peace, independence and country. For all of this, and on behalf of all Vukovars, I call on this distinguished House, all of you esteemed fellow MPs to unanimously and unanimously support the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24182	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24183	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Government Vice-President, respected representatives of associations, defence associations. There is finally a law before us that prescribes the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families that corrects the wrongs committed to Croatian defenders by the 2001 law. The proposed law systematically resolves the entire set of rights, and the law actually reads the good intentions of the promoters towards the defence population, the defence population that is extremely vulnerable to the injustices and the desecration of the Homeland War and the people who stood up for their homeland for whom they died, for which they were left without parts of their body and who defended it. It should be said immediately that the rights are somewhat less than the rights prescribed by the 96 law, but some new rights are recognised which have not been in the laws so far. The concept of a volunteer of the Homeland War is also defined, which I hold particularly important not because of rights but because of the fact that in Croatia there were people who were volunteers, who stood willingly in the defense of their country and it is a personal honor for me to belong to that group of Croatian defenders. But I'm also good at the fact that the place in the law was found by members of the armed national protection squads and members of the HoS who also made a huge contribution to the Homeland War. There may have been room in the law to cover some of the other participants of the Homeland War, such as war rapporteurs, but the most important thing is that the law is unequivocal to allow the law to be implemented and implemented entirely without unnecessary administrative obstacles. For the implementation of this law, it is necessary for today's Croatian reality to be truly large 3 billion and 640 million kuna, but this law restores Croatia's state of dignity to Croatian defenders who have never sought neither privileges nor privileges but only clearly established rights, respect and proper status in society. I hope this law will be adopted unanimously in this House of Commons, but it will also be accepted by all Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24184	Thank you. The word has a respected representative of Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24185	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, representatives of associations stemming from the Homeland War. The proposal for a law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, which was referred to by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the parliamentary procedure, correcting some of the injustices and correcting some of the illogicalities of the existing law. With this bill, the rights taken away, not only worry about the victims, but for the first time, the protection of all participants in the Homeland War is being introduced. The new law aims to restore the dignity of all Croatian defenders and members of their families, but the dignity of Croatian defenders is not raised only through unpleasant audits or by the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and their families. The story of the lost dignity of the Croatian defender appears to be life, not just legal articles. As far as the opposite is concerned, the greatest blow was not audits, but more than lost rights were affected by other things. Here we can mention an example of a project to make defenders priorities in the employment of janitors or security guards in schools. The answer to that was painful, she spread paranoia and prejudice about fear of PTSD in schools. It was a real confirmation of what part of the Croatian public thinks when he is mentioned as a participant of the Homeland War. The change in this widespread unfounded and negative perception of the average defender will seem to be the most difficult task of our ministry. In this direction, it seems to me that the opening of direct telephone lines for Croatian defenders, the confiscation of weapons to security guards at the entrance to the ministry. But some truths still find it difficult to deal with the fact that the defence population no longer has a separate ministry. They even go so far as to have their eyes dig and detail that the ministry does not have an adjective "Croatian". However, it is much more important that Croatian defenders be welcomed to their ministry. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders was passed in the Parliament on 19 October 2001. This law lays down the rights and procedures for the recognition of the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their family who seek to equalise themselves with rights, with wounded and injured Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, but it has proved that the law in a series of provisions is difficult to implement. The law reduced the basic family pension by about 50% and disability pensions by 30 to 50%. However, the public's biggest objections were to the provisions on the enforcement of recognised rights on the basis of which bankruptcy status rights were abolished if the new documentation provided that there was no injury, it did not occur in a direct armed conflict with the aggressor. Although no renewal has been carried out and these irregularities are being warned by the administrative court of the Republic of Croatia. The law quickly experienced several changes and the first changes came in 2002 when it returned to Croatian wartime disabled 100% of the first group to have the right to care and help of another person have the right to care. At the same time, other amendments have been made to stop applying the provisions of Article 39. Law on compensation, customs charges and sales taxes on personal cars introduced by Croatian defenders without paying customs and tax. In 2004, other amendments were made to the implementation of psychosocial assistance to Croatian defenders in accordance with the National Programme and deleted provisions restricting or denying the rights of users from the Law during their detention or detention. Also, the provisions on the translation of recognised rights have been deleted, and in pension rights translation is prescribed only if it is more favourable for the user. Proposing a new proposal for a law on Croatian defenders, the Government is seeking to make this fully enforceable law and to be in line with the state's capabilities at the moment. It should be a law that will be in force after all the next elections, so that finally Croatian defenders and members of their family know what the rights they belong to, which will not change and will not depend on anyone's political will. The adoption of this Law should finally become the true service of Croatian defenders. I will only mention some of the most important differences between this bill and the current provisions. First, the definition of "Croatian defender from the Homeland War" included alongside members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and volunteers of the Homeland War, as well as members of the Armed Forces, People's Protection and Hos. Perhaps here this right of the Armed Forces, the People's Squad, should link that right to their given participation in the Armed Forces, that is, the front line of the front line. The circle of the fatalities extends to members of the fire department as well as to other persons who, under the authority of the state authorities, took part in the defence. As a time for participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, time is recognised from 5 August 90th to 30th September 96. Perhaps here you should consider moving this time period to May 30 as it was in the first Law of 93-96. What is important is the introduction of a minimum pension institute, which will protect a large number of defence populations. Although 45% may be low, but it's probably consistent with the state's current capabilities. The basis for establishing the right to the family disability of family members increases from 40 to 50%. Family disability increases from 15 to 50%. Children of deceased defenders who remain without another parent also have the right to retire and one year after their regular schooling. Children's allowance is introduced for children of the dead and imprisoned, missing defender, etc. It is also important to reduce the scope of the right-recognition documentation for the implementation of this Act in order to speed up the procedure and to make the law applicable. But I think we should think about it here and solve the HVO problem. Appropriate solutions should be found for all members of the HVO. We know that some today have those rights translated, others should not wait for a bilateral agreement between the Republic of Croatia and BH. And to conclude, these and other provisions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers of the Homeland War would ensure that rights are evenly distributed between Croatian defenders and Croatian wartime wartime peoples and members of their families, that the provisions of this Act are enforceable and that no rights are prescribed which are only declarative and because of financial opportunities could not be realised. From all this I believe that this law will be passed by great consensus regardless of all differences between political parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24186	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24187	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Prime Minister and gentlemen of the Ministry, above all, the respected representatives of defense associations, colleagues and colleagues. Today, so much has been said about these laws and the present and this bill that is before you, but I would make a simple short contribution to this debate, first of all, that I come from the County of Sisak-Moslavina, where thousands of dead, wounded defenders and families are still, unfortunately, looking for their loved ones. Not long ago, we discussed the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2003, which showed that many of the rights were reduced by the current Law. I don't want to mention a disability review here today or anything like that. There's been so much talk about this today. However, daily conversations with Croatian defenders have proved that during the past period, public defenders were considered to be large-rights and privileges of the population. However, what are these rights and privileges and about which rights and privileges we asked in the 1990s when these same people defended the borders of their homeland. This Law restores some of the rights prescribed by the 1996 Law and recognises some new rights for Croatian defenders in the field of pension rights, defines who is considered Croatian defenders, the time of participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, and today I have heard several times that in 90 years it is questionable. I must remind myself that in Croatia we in Banovini, Pounj, Posavina, in the City of Sisak were unfortunately defending our country in the 1990s. The status of defenders, members of civil protection is also recognised, which is extremely good. From a series of rights returning to Croatian defenders I will look back at the so-called family rights, and they are based on the basis of the right to determine the family invalidity of members of the family of the injured Croatian defender from the Homeland War who was killed or killed and who increased from 40 to 50%. Also, the family disability for Croatian military disabled from group 1 to 4 benefiting from care and assistance, increased from 15% to 25%. And especially important are the rights relating to the rights of children, fosterers or stepdaughters who were entitled to a family pension and would have the right to a family pension a year after the completion of schooling, which is in accordance with the applicable Family Law, as well as the right to a family disability during the service of the military period after the termination of regular schooling, if the service began no later than one year after schooling. In Article 34, point (a) is The law states that children of the dead or the injured Croatian defenders have an allowance for children at the highest level. Perhaps it should be built into the Law and the right to pay for children of the late Croatian defender because unfortunately more and more defenders die today from the consequences of suffering, of stress, of PTSD, of stress-related diseases. It is good that the paper in the Law that rights based on the death of a Croatian defender from the Homeland War who committed suicide as a result of a mental illness caused by participation in the defence of the country do not become obsolete. The scope of the documentation has also been reduced, which speeds up the process. Interesting is the report that we received on the benches on the health status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, which was submitted to us by the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, which shows that post-traumatic stress disorder is one of the leading causes of the disability and disability of Croatian defenders. I must say that these days in Sisak-Moslavina County, we have completed a health picture of the population of Sisak-Moslavina County and among the first five health and social priorities that different analyses of our population's mental health are in third place. In this category, unfortunately, the most run are the families of Croatian defenders, so not only Croatian defenders themselves, but the entire family. And that is why I agree that special care in the healthcare system should be devoted to this problem. Madam Minister, I welcome, although I have also heard some concerns about whether there will be an increase in the number of officials, and I welcome the establishment of these branches for legal assistance to Croatian defenders, I will say on the ground, where they are, because it will indeed be more accessible to them. They will be closer to the ministry and closer to solving these problems. I don't think that's going to cost this budget very much. I must also point out in the end, although I believe that this will be a very positive solution to the victims, the defenders who moved here to our county, and they are indeed numerous from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Most of them have no status resolved or have very small pensions, and other rights such as disability and failures. I believe that the government, and as far as I know, will be able to solve this problem through an interstate agreement soon, and at least some of their issues. And in the end, it's said here that we don't need to politicize. But the government's pre-election programme quoted me as saying, "Protecting the rights of Croatian defenders must become an integral part of the care of security, values and defence of Croatia". We have before us a new Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and their families, so we have done the promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24188	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Bozida Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24189	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, fellow MPs. Here is the important thing at the very beginning of my debate to say that this bill on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families who are present today came primarily from the foundations of the profession, because a wide range of experts participated in the drafting of the Law, together with representatives of associations from the Homeland War. He's expected and eager for more than one reason. Not only was it necessary to redefine the catalogue of the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families, as well as the procedure for the recognition and exercise of the right to deprive excessive bureaucratic obstacles and to simplify and protect acquired rights, this bill is a response to injustice, to systematic marginalisation, to the inconspicuous traumatic consequences of the 2001 law and in the way it is implemented by the climate in the society that was created in this regard by the defence population, including members of the defence family. Any law which regulates the material and status rights of those to whom it applies, including the procedural provisions under which it arises and is adopted, by its provisions. With sufficient material basis to ensure a certain level of rights prescribed by its provisions. It must be firmly based on the principle of righteousness. And he has to be able and he wants to spend it. These are all points and moments at which the 2001 law was conditionally dropped. And because it reflected one time, one policy and one system of values according to the main protagonists of the Homeland War. There's a split between two laws, two social environments and two concepts. And look at the role of Croatian defender and indirectly their families. All the institutions of the bill that is before us reflect a new spirit, a new relationship, but also practical solutions through appropriate rights and legal institutes that are prescribed and determined, taking into account the real material opportunities of society. According to the Homeland War and the Croatian defenders. It is important to say what has been avoided by this bill before us. A complicated procedure and endless paperwork have been avoided in proving status and proof of rights and conditions. There was a lack of clarity in the facts, definitions and dates. A reduction in the basis of a family disability pension has been avoided. The abolition and reduction before the rights acquired was avoided, which included the 2001 Law of the Institute of Translation. It is important to say, for the sake of the Croatian public, Croatian defenders and their families, that this proposal restores the rights and dignity of the Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime disableds, members of their families and all those subject to the provisions of this bill. To make these people feel grateful and concerned for those for whom they were willing to sacrifice lives, health, body, family life, professional careers, education and civil peace. That is why I support all the solutions from the proposed provisions of this bill, and in particular, I support the definition of the Croatian defender from the Homeland War, which includes except members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and volunteers from the Homeland War and for the first time members of the armed national protection teams. In particular, the role of armed national protection teams and their importance should be focused on the role of the armed national protection teams in the crucial moments of the Croatian state's creation. The defences of its sovereignty and the creation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. National protection appeared as an expression of Croatian citizens' determination to defend their country, and it was created as a reaction to the huge Serbian aggression that raged in some Croatian regions during the war summer of 91. Armed provisions of national protection during these difficult times have carried out precisely and in time all orders. Unfortunately, many were killed and had no defence rights. This is now for the first time in a legal proposal to recognise an immeasurable contribution, a role, but also the loss of members of armed national protection teams in the creation and defence of the Croatian state. To this day, many of these volunteers have been wronged. First of all, moral, because it systematically denied the historical truth. That they were the first or among the first Croatian volunteers, and certainly the only ones not on the payroll. Pure volunteers. Unfortunately, various interpretations of the so far.propis are not recognised by the status of Croatian defenders, which is clearly an example of the lack of recognition of international conventions, whose status of defender or fighter has been resolved in an unequivocally manner. It is important to say that from the point of view of constitutionality and legality and the primate of international conventions whose member of the Republic of Croatia the problem of armed national protection squads had to be resolved long ago. I am free to say that the proposed solutions that resolve status and recognise the appropriate rights of members of the armed national protection teams, the result of joint activities of the profession, representatives of the associations of national protection, and confirm the execution of the promises made by Ms. Jadranka Kosor and her ministry 10 months ago to resolve the outstanding issue in an appropriate and fair manner. And in the end, this law is fully enforceable and financially covered and I fully support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24190	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24191	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, the esteemed and dear Croatian defenders. What to say about this law I would say the simplest thing is this is a good law because in the best possible way it harmonizes the available, limited resources of the state budget with all those rights of all Croatian defenders and solving and the task for good, quality I would say optimally is one important feature of this Law that we have here today in the Croatian Parliament. Good law, I would say even the best law is not in practice a good law if it is not provided with adequate funding, too little funding. On the other hand, we cannot afford to ask more in the realisation of these laws because if we were to ask for more, we would be more vulnerable to someone's other rights, and today in Croatia it is difficult to take care of this balance and it is very important to solve this important political, social and any other task is the purpose and quality of this Law. What are the rights of Croatian defenders resting on? I'd say open on three pillars. The first pillar is the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, the second pillar is what we talked about several months ago in the Croatian Parliament, it is the Croatian Defence Fund and I think that in the future when discussing the rights and the rights of Croatian defenders should be increasingly discussed about this positive interconnection between the quality Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and the Croatian Defence Fund. What's the third pillar? The third pillar is what these laws rest on, meaning the Law on Rights and the Fund of Croatian Defences and that is the truth about the Homeland War and it is important to know that without a quality, objective but permanent picture of what was happening in these premises these laws can be appropriately threatened and in this sense I will in particular talk about an important document adopted in the Croatian Parliament and this is the Declaration on Homeland War. However, first of all, I would like to point out some less important things, but I would say certainly important things for a large part of Croatian defenders, particularly the defender of the Croatian Defence Council whose status has not been properly resolved to this day, should be reminded that without these people, without these defenders, the Croatian Defence Council, there would be no Croatian South, that the number of victims and material damages in Croatia would be far greater. And by respecting these historical facts, respecting the contribution of Croatian defenders, the Croatian Defence Council certainly hopes that not only through this Law but also through the Croatian Defence Fund we should be unique. Fund of Croatian defenders and Croatian defenders and Croatian Army and Croatian Defence Councils but also through the interstate agreement to seek and find quality solutions. Between a series of issues and the rights to be regulated by this Act, from the right to health care, pension insurance, allowance, employment rights, etc. I would personally look back and say something more than PTSD syndrome, because the health condition of Croatian defenders, and we had the opportunity to see the recent report that was delivered to us on the assembly benches is warning and worrying and in that sense I think that it is a very good change in this Law, which extends the time limit for achieving the rights of Croatian defenders on the basis of this type of diagnosis. Ten years is not much, modern world experience in the United States still shows that Vietnamese veterans have serious problems with this type of disease that evolve, which expound because, with all the efforts of the medical profession, it is one of the most complex health problems facing Croatian defenders. This fact in the Republic of Croatia proves quite clearly, over 100,000 interventions a year, with growth tendencies, it is something that concerns us and world statistics clearly show, for example Vietnam, that 15 to 30% of the population of war veterans suffer from this type of disease. I certainly hope that we will do everything possible to give this kind of Croatian defenders special attention in new therapeutic methods and all those efforts that today seem not only in the Republic of Croatia but I would say in the world because these problems are faced with modern armies, and every day in increasingly numerous peace operations than those in Iraq, Afghanistan, etc. And that's one of the most significant problems that today stands out among the defense population everywhere. I would look again at that third pillar of which I said something on which all the rights of Croatian defenders rest, which is the Declaration of the Homeland War. Because when the truth of the Homeland War is gone, when the truth of our recent history that is being threatened in various ways disappears and the rights of Croatian defenders are under threat, and those three pillars always have to look at each other somehow. I'll say that's what some of our recent pasts have warned us about. Someone once said that in these areas nothing changes as quickly as history, and that history has changed, and unfortunately today we have witnessed, I would say not controversial, not random events, but when we connect all these individual segments to one whole then we will either have to conclude that it is part of a redesigned recent event in the areas of the former Yugoslavia, in these areas where the facts are very good, well known but they are given special attention to various statements, various media statements, various misinformations, and I think that's why I need to pay special attention to this problem. For that reason, I will highlight what it says in the Homeland War Declaration. I quote Article 2. The Republic of Croatia has waged a fair and legitimate defence and liberating war against anyone in which it has defended its territory from major Serb aggression within internationally recognised borders and in accordance with the fundamental principles of justice, the civil solidarity of the Republic of Croatia will provide material opportunities for all Croatian defenders and families of the victims of the Homeland War who are the most responsible for its creation, full dignity and care, and I stress this in particular, as well as the following article that the Croatian Parliament's House of Representatives commits all officials and all state bodies of the Republic of Croatia to protect the fundamental values and dignity of the Homeland War as a provision for our civilization's future. However, there is not by chance a whole series of unacceptable statements that threaten these facts and these requirements. Croatia has never fought with Montenegro nor Serbia. Everyone needs to apologize to everyone. Bryon transcript manipulations. I'm one of the participants of one of those brijun meetings and I warn that a lot of what's standing there isn't true and it doesn't fit the facts and that's the stuff they're worried about. Therefore, what needs to be taken care of doesn't try so quickly, I will repeat, organized in these areas, change as the truth of the Homeland War. That looks random, but nothing's an accident. One day maybe ten years from now, and I hope this never happens, we may find ourselves in a situation that will dominate a lot more terms like civil war, civil war, and the Homeland War will be mentioned or the negative associations will bond with it. Certainly Croatian defenders won't allow it because they didn't deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24192	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24193	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Today you had the opportunity to hear in the presentation of Mr. Djapic's president on behalf of the club several examples of the status of defenders, fighters in our environment with accent, emphasis on the rights of those who were aggressors for our Homeland War. The reason for our emphasis on legal solutions in neighbouring countries is the fact that in the Croatian media and in the good part of the Croatian public there is a delusion about allegedly too many Croatian defenders and allegedly too many Croatian wartime wartime disableds. After all, we also had the opportunity to hear this today through exposure to a small number of our fellow MPs. Well, in this context, I would like you, colleagues and colleagues, given that there is no transmission, and I would like to introduce you to the state of this problem in our neighbouring country of Slovenia, a country that is a member of the European Union and which, as we all remember well for a few days in 1991, has had war events. So listen. Veterans who became disabled in 1991 and have the status of a permanent military invalid enjoy special rights. Among 63,000 498 veterans, I repeat 63,000 498 veterans, Slovenia has 35 thousand 638 with that status. So, the status of a permanent military invalid. In the Republic of Croatia, the number of Croatian military invalids after six years of the Homeland War is 34 thousand 610. So in our neighbouring Slovenia there is a larger number, i.e. There are more wartime military disabled people from 1991 than in the Republic of Croatia. So much for the number of war people with disabilities. They have the right to a life-long monthly rent whose amount depends on the degree of permanent disability and is paid in the range of 8 to 600,000 tolars, or 260 to 19 thousand 360 kuna. As a basis for determining the rent, the maximum maximum amount of life-long monthly rent recognised by World War II struggles is taken. As a basis for determining the wage for war people with disabilities in neighbouring Slovenia in 1991, the maximum maximum amount of life-long monthly rent recognised by World War II fighters is taken. People's liberation struggles, triple the amount. Members of the fallen families in the 1991 war have the right to pay war damages and children of fallen veterans who are regularly educated by 27 years have the right to a scholarship of the highest possible state-run scholarships increased 10% for students and 20% for students, an advantage in receiving a student and student home and paid cost of school food. This is the situation in our neighbouring country of Slovenia, which has a slightly better economic situation, but I'm going back to the beginning, it's had a few days and not a few years of war, and you've heard the number of wartime military invalids. So much for whether this number is too large, why it is so big in Croatia, and I think the best answer to all those who are persistently speculating with the fact that the number of Croatian military disableds is unrealistic and that we have too many defenders and that I am not talking about those who are constantly showing any doubts about their fair status. What I'm saying and I have to say about the law itself because I'm one of the few representatives of the War Veterans Committee who was unhappy with the proposed solution and I was dissatisfied for the following reasons. What so far, in my personal opinion and the opinion of many fellow MPs, was the biggest problem in the implementation of the laws so far, was their ambiguity and intransparency. The argument that this is so is thousands and thousands of lawsuits in the administrative court which is still overrun today with claims by Croatian defenders. The fact itself speaks in favor of the fact that the law is either unclear or difficult to implement, or inconclusive, as it has been in most parts of the law so far in 2001. My second objection to this bill is lack of simulation. However, it would be very important and valuable for our colleagues, for all Croatian MPs to have simulations and calculations by individual categories so that we can compare solutions from the current current law in relation to the solutions to this new bill. Unfortunately, there are no such simulations, so we can't objectively assess which solutions are better. The third remark I have on this bill is a calculation. However, as you remember a month ago or something when the proposal for the HSP law was discussed fundamentally and fundamentally and the government's only objection to our bill was calculated even though we accurately calculated the needs for our bill. We now have a calculation, but I do hold that given some and new rights that have been introduced and there are as many as you know. It is difficult to assume that with an increase of 80 million kuna, these new, new rights will be able to be financed. I believe it would not be good and it would be very unserious if we passed the Law without being sure that the budgets of this law could also be financed. What I have as an observation and what we have heard several times already is the lack of mention of status, the advent of the Croatian Council of Defense in this law of ours on defenders. For me and my colleagues from my party, members of the Croatian Defence Council were Croatian soldiers under Croatian command and they are members of the Armed Forces, Croatian Armed Forces and have every right to have equal rights as all other members of the Armed Forces. The more the majority of HVO members resolved their status through the Croatian Law and one small part is not and the injustice needs to be corrected, and the easiest way to solve this problem is to do what others have done to ensure that the territory in which the participation is recognised is the territory of the former SFRY and that should not be any problem and that would solve all the doubts and disputes that were related to members and the Croatian Council of Land but also to members of the HV who had activities outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I stress and warn that I have the knowledge that there are already rulings of Croatian courts related to the status of members of the HVO and it would not be good for the Croatian state that members of the HVO exercise their right and that things are going to happen easily through Croatian courts, it would not be fair or fair if their problems were solved by Croatian courts and there is no dispute that would be resolved in their favour. I have the biggest objection to housing, not to the decision of the law, but to too little resources in the budget. And it should be well considered that the Croatian Defence Fund's income is somehow involved in solving housing issues. There's 13,000 people waiting, so that's billions of kunas. If we know that last year there were 144 billion kunas, we wonder how many tens of years will wait for that 13 thousand. In this respect, account should be taken and part of the Fund’s income should be directed towards housing resolution. The biggest problem and the biggest grudge I have on this bill is the issue of participation. These rights Croatian defenders had, this right is absolutely necessary and important, you have all fellow representatives report from a joint session of the Committee that speaks of the dramatic state of health of Croatian defenders, not a few percent but several hundred percent of the occurrence of many diseases in the defence population compared to other Croatian citizens. And if we know and know that health care will be increasingly expensive and expensive, that we live in a market economy, it is easy to assume that the issue of participation in the coming months and years will have a growing and greater importance and I believe that it is necessary to think about it well and to free all Croatian defenders from participation. Let's not even allow a situation as suicidal as it has been so far to be driven through legal solutions. We now have a solution that the Croatian defender does not have to repay the loan if he commits suicide, his family does not have to return, we now have that 100% military disability if he commits suicide his family will receive income and pension, his wife and if he dies, don't let God die, then if she doesn't have 48 years left without any rights. This should be considered in a very good way that suicide as a category should simply be thrown out of the Law on Croatian Defence. And finally, just one sentence, let's not let the second reading of the law be after the adoption of the state budget because then we won't have to discuss it, so I ask the vice presidents to make sure that the second reading is done before the vote on the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24194	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24195	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will well purposely and constructively present a number of objections to this Law, first of all, to support the bill but I must point out the following remarks. First principled nature of the remark. It was expected that in the assessment of the situation, it should stand exactly to whom all this Law would apply, which means figures. To say precisely the number of Croatian defenders who are now and who will be after the entry into force of this Act. The number of Croatian military disabled persons with status so far and how much further is estimated to be able to obtain the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid in this law. The exact number of the families of the dead, the dead, the imprisoned and the missing and the number that will come to pass after the entry into force of this Law. In this way, it was necessary to make the exact specification of all these groups in order to know that the monthly amount from the position of the Ministry of the Family on the disbursement of persons with disabilities will be exactly that and that, the annual level is that, such a matter for pensions related to families of the deceased, related to Croatian wartime wartime people and these new two retirement groups for volunteers, i.e. for Croatian defenders when they leave, whether it is an age pension, whether it is professional incompetence. In this way you would get the right picture and you could do the right simulation to see if this Law is truly enforceable or to what extent it is enforceable. Speaking of principled remarks, I must say that the principled nature of the law has a significant number of drawbacks of nomotechnical nature. They're so natured that they make him inexhaustible. Why do I say that? Look at the transitional and final provisions. The transitional and final provisions say that on the date of entry into force of this Act, if it were to cease to be in this form, the former Law but also all sublaws shall cease to apply. And what will happen to you? This will happen to you, you have the sublegal regulations to be adopted in article 108. Article 159 states that the deadline... bring it in within 90 days. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the period from the entry into force of the Law, it shall mean that the entry into force of the Law shall apply from 1. One, let's say. One, let's say. One, let's say. And for 90 days, there's nothing you can do, you can't do a single item, you can't solve any status. There's nothing you can do. It's total confusion and blockage. That is why you need to put in transition and finals that sublegal regulations are laid down under the former Law remain in force unless they are contrary, so that the same thing that happened to Mr Pancic will happen to you when he said that, at the end of the day, they will not be in 90 days, but they are 9 months, and then there has been a build-up of cases, everything else, and we have become in the situation that we are now in. You also need to be careful when speaking in article 108 about all the rules to be laid down, let’s say that this register is also to be provided in Articles 2 and 3. But you don't mention the register at all in Articles 2 and 3. You've got to point it out right. There is a big, big gap being made regarding Article 159 has been said that the minister will bring within 90 days, that the government will bring within 6 months but one regulation. In Article 60, paragraph 9, you also set out the sublaw of the Government relating to these privileges which are regulated here. So without it, you also miss that part. And now I would look back at that part of the individual. So you'll have a lot to do in that part of the job. Just watch when you define the concept of confirmation. Once you speak in perfection, twice you speak in presentation, for the third time in futur, so those parts must be. You will have particular problems with this part of the civil protection certificate, such as labour obligations and others. The competent authority, the competent authority at that time was your crisis staff. You have to determine exactly who you're going to be, who's the legal follower and what's the competent authority so that those regulations don't come out, so that problems don't come out. And on the other hand, when it comes to this, you have to put sailors on it. You know for a fact that the sailors took part in the defence of the Croatian Adriatic, so if you will, I think to the end that we can solve all these things. Now let's go to that part I have to tell you that a provision has particularly startled me by knowing the minister and vice president of the government I don't think she's very familiar with. Look at the employment you have article 35 paragraph 2 is about the employment championship and then you say who it's all about and says, that's the championship, mandatory when it comes to employment, except say management jobs. It's very dangerous. That provision could be interpreted... It's a very dangerous provision, I'm asking you to delete it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now I have to say right away when Mr. Milinovic was saying the truth is that from his left, right and middle, there are Croatian defenders, but we also have two volunteers, or volunteers, who are also there and now it turns out that... We could come to the Parliament without a problem, and we'll limit the defenders that they can't get executive posts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now what are executive positions? There's nowhere to go. We have the Law on Officials, right? You know that. They're the executives. It's about a company called the president: "That's the management post and the head of the cleaning lady," right? About their... It's going to be a management post. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then, on that point, one other problem is Article 35. They forget about one part of what was agreed on on the Legislative Committee, which is the part that public enterprises are no longer and these funds are mandatory to publish an advertising tender. So they're not anymore, we don't have regulations in Croatia that they're always obliged to publish an advertising contest. But this way without introducing that part of us, the government's commission that will in any case not leave it to the inspection. The inspection will determine its own, the one who suspended the defender will make it a second time in such a way that he will put on conditions if he announces the advertisement that he is fulfilling. To make a commission of the government that will do so, the state can do so because it is about her things that will then react. I also have to say in retirement that one provision doesn't seem good to me, and that's the part, don't make a difference in Croatian wartime invalids according to those factors, coefficients depending on what status he had when he was wounded, injured, sick. It's a very dangerous situation. For this part they can agree on, for volunteers and for Croatian defenders at... Factors and coefficients, and give the same coefficient for this situation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because you're going to have a variant especially for those who haven't earned the right. Let's say two members were wounded by the same mine, had the same degree of physical damage. One of them was a member of a special task force, say the MUP or was a guard force, will have a higher pension than the other one, which was, say, the backup of the police or anything else. Speaking of which, you forgot about rank and... The special police station was called. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have to make a couple in that part, calling it. It was made in 1998, 1999. That's, in that part, you also have to make an important correction. Also for HVO members, Mr. Jukic said, please consider being related to pyrotechnics and to participants of Croatian military peacekeeping missions. We ourselves know that members of the Croatian Army who are participants in peacekeeping missions protection is nothing. It would refer to that part of some insurance that today is, tomorrow, and the other part would refer to their rights under the Law on the Protection of Military Disabilities, and we know the level of that protection itself. I think it'd be wise to say the same thing. Furthermore, it is important to say in some things, although you said it was a retirement radio, for example, referring to article 19 which speaks of pension factors for disability pensions because of professional ability. It's said to be that factor 0.33.0, yes, 0.33333. And look, otherwise for this part of your professional ability is a risk of 0.5 according to general regulations. It turns out they're getting even less. Because he's a defense attorney. These things I believe Mirovinski participated in, that it worked for you but that, that's not what should be done. Look, honorary acts. I don't know how this will work out for, ourselves, and we know that the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces has abolished the honorable act and the current Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, Article 2 has also been abolished. That's where the same difference was made. That should try, we've in our bill of law had here... an act of honor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Try to see from the construction sites and everything else because there's a big situation, we know that people have been acting in construction places far higher. There's not even a confirmation of everything else. They never made an act, and now there's this difference, here's the representatives of the associations who know there was one group left to get rid of. Unfortunately, it was never solved because Pancic didn't send it to the president's office or what happened, but unfortunately that didn't work out. So you'll have a lot of work to do, and I wouldn't deal with it any further, and time is running out, and we're offering you in that part of the help. You're really gonna have to remove a lot of these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24196	Thank you very much. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Meanwhile, 15 MPs gave up the debate. I'm calling on the others to join in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24197	I thank Mr. President, I will be brief, and I will adhere to those who are satisfied that this law is finally based on the experience of the 1996 law, the 2001 law and the months-long talks with those to whom the law refers have resulted in one comprehensive acceptance of those good measures that existed, but also by introducing a series of new ones that I would point out, in particular, only two of whom I think further provide security to our defenders whom I have not particularly welcomed, and so I welcome them. And these are the lowest so-called. Protected pension and, in particular, what I believe to have remained in the younger world, the right to grant children, and may be allowed to propose this is the first reading, to consider in Article 55 a possible deadline within which the Government should establish this special fund for the scholarship of the children of defenders. So, in some ways, the deadline is set, and by joining these who are eager to wait for the defence register, so also the Defence Fund, which in some ways would try to reduce abuses at any level. I am also pleased with the high penalties provided for those who would thus be engaged in these areas of abuse, and I would also suggest that an excessive range of those penalties may be considered. So the minimum penalty of 10 grand and the highest of 300,000 is too wide for someone's discretionary right to determine who made the mistake, so I suggest we consider agreeing on those penalties. Speaking of defenders and this population, of course, we can't go back to something that makes up a total picture of these rights. So it's not about benefits. It is the minimum right of those who have their flesh, bones and blood to the foundations of this country, so if we say that the state is the vessel that keeps everything on the cup and keeps it from being scattered, so our minimum duty is to safeguard the rights of these people, and we should not give it to them, but we should all be proud and they are essentially the pride of our people and thus observe this defensive group because today talking about the time is different than being a participant of that time and not forgetting that they were young men from 18, and there were many younger people who were running away from home, and they weren't minors, won tennis shoes, a bare-armed third military force in Europe, so they were unprepared for the situation where they were, but that they were guided by ideals, and I don't want to remember when I was responsible for the ideals of killing fools. I'm just going to say that ideals are immortal, that it's also immortal to those who have died for these ideals and that, in total, through this law and through that Law on the Memorial-documentation center and through the system of education and through the whole relationship in all areas, we need to build one picture of our Homeland War in a way that is done by polite countries throughout the centuries, so let's remember all the Roman monuments, remember the Prussian monuments, and remember our neighbors who have turned their historical defeats into epics about their heroism. So we have something that is realistic, which is there, which is also protected by the Declaration of Homeland War and, to that end, I would like to say that I hope a consensus in this society in relation to both the defenders and the Homeland War, and as far as this law is concerned, if the consensus and consensus of all political parties are not possible, then I think it is a pleasure to see that a consensus has already been reached between the legislator and those to which this law will apply. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24198	Thank you very much. Meanwhile, six other MPs withdrew their applications. From all kinds of parties. So that's 21 total. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24199	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a bill on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families which, in my opinion, means a test of the conscience of every individual and society in general against those who have defended Croatian freedom, independence, who have built themselves into the foundations of the Croatian state. Generally speaking the history of the human race is largely the chronology of warfare. From the beginning of the old century until the dawn of modern states, there were different forms of stimulation and rewarding of soldiers for participating in wars. And the great military leaders were elected into political bodies and there were political leaders, as in the Roman Empire means in the first superpower, so America. In the 19th and 20th centuries, the defence of the state became the legal obligation of militaryly capable men, who, if war victims became disabled, were concerned by the state, state pension, and other forms of assistance. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The law we are discussing today is above any policy and politics, and we are in a position to discuss in the Parliament and we can also say public debate. Because in its adoption of the association came from the Homeland War, the law was passed by consensus, which would definitely be returned and confirmed in the first order the dignity of Croatian defenders, and also the material status of defenders in line with the economic opportunities of Croatian society. The debate on material rights led defenders to the wrong impression that the defence population in the Republic of Croatia only cares about its material privileges. Many defenders rightly today complain that after a mere decade after the war, society has forgotten its defences, its tendency to generalize all defenders through the crimes of individuals. And war is often written and spoken sensationally and factually incorrectly. Starting with the fact that anyone who has voluntarily joined the defence of Croatia was willing to lay down his life for the Homeland and his people, therefore for the public good is an uncompromising obligation of society to create a public consciousness. That defenders are a social group from which individuals should be recruited, for the conduct of the most responsible duties in society in the country, with the satisfaction of general and legal conditions. Croatian defenders and their associations must be the moral verticals of a society whose voice is respected and respected. And they must take up the roofs of all associations and choose men with impeccable war and human biography. The symbol of the Homeland War must be more impertinent in the social everyday life of Croatia, as it is known that the peoples who quickly forget their history are condemned to live it again soon. The Doomwin war and the creation of an independent Croatian state are among the highest achievements of the Croatian people's history, so no one has the right to capture defenders for daily political purposes. Homeland war and defenders must be above current social confrontations, and polemics. Protecting the dignity of the Homeland War and honor and reputation of the defender must be a moral obligation for every Croatian citizen of every Croatian individual. It is indicative that individual media in each individual violation of the law, indicate the identity of the perpetrators to the Croatian military, for example. The retired defender does it and so on. As long as aphimative cases do not indicate that such belongings create mistrust in the defence population in part of the public. The Defence Act must provide fair and permanent rights for defenders who will not be subject to any change and relationship between political parties and changes in government. The company and all its institutions have an obligation to preserve the non-transient values and achievements of the Homeland War, and therefore we have a commitment to its affirmation through the educational system of the Republic of Croatia. Obligation to explore the historical structure of the Homeland War, the affirmation of war heroes, and to raise awareness of the importance of preserving the tradition and achievement of the Liberation War, which the Republic of Croatia was leading to the end of the 20th century. I have an obligation on the proposed law to pass on the views of the defenders of friendly associations from the Cetina region, which, of course, consider the proposed law to be good and the minister to Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, I convey their satisfaction. Because with pride every one of them can say I'm the defender, I'm a member of the Homeland War armed forces from the Liberation War. Finally, I support this well-conceived law which can be completed with any amendments and I hope by consensus of all political parties and by a representative adopted in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24200	Thank you very much. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24201	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to cut my exposure to the maximum, and out of this big, strong law that's ensnared, I'm going to single out some of the parts that I think are important. And maybe this is where they wanted to be reduced in the debates so far. The laws we had so far on Croatian defenders in fact regulated the rights of the wounded and the injured. And what's important and I think it really deserves special attention is what they get in fact Croatian defenders which means they didn't get sick, they weren't wounded, they were just Croatian defenders. And what they've got now is certainly justifiable it's necessary and we can't reduce it. And that's the right to retirement. So far, Croatian defenders who have obtained the right to retire under the law on pension insurance status of Croatian defenders have had no impact on the level of pension. Except for that internship they spent that was calculated for a single or double duration. Now they get that pension increases 10 to 30%, depending on the time of participation. And I think it still deserves a special accent and attention. It would also stress the same right to a disability pension, which is regulated in Article 15, where it means other than the current provision where disability pensions could only be made due to general incompetence, and now this right can also be achieved because of professional incompetence, which is also very important in my opinion. And what is particularly important is to introduce the minimum pension institute. Which means 45% of the average net salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia that in the previous year, the previous retirement would now be 1773 kuna. I don't know if we can imagine what it means to someone who's not receiving, and there's about 60 years away for a woman and 65 for men, and now they'll be able to have so much retirement. Not enough but guarantees one basic security. I'd like to take a special look at employment here. I think we should be hiring Croatian defenders. These are all other accompanying measures. We saw here yesterday Mrs. Minister pointed out that we have 6 employment measures, that 40,000 calls were sent and these programmes were offered to employ 2 and a half thousand Croatian defenders in this way. And I think that's the most important way to go, because Croatian defenders want to work, earn and receive here as some think charity. It is also important to see that these 13c thousands are still residentially unsettled, which is a really large number. And here I conclude that I support the adoption of the proposed law in the first reading. I think he's just that he's spent, and he's expendable, and he's righted a lot of wrongs so far. And solved a lot of unresolved issues so far that it is in line with the country's economic power as highlighted in front of the government. And that the law won't have to change as often as we've had before and that it won't apply from the song "Best Croatian Tambursts", "I used to be a warrior, now I'm just a passenger". With this law, I think their suffering will still be less.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24202	Meanwhile, several other MPs withdrew their application, and in the meantime the number increased to 28. Dear representative Jelena Pavicic-Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here, in fact, in the debate we've heard a lot of things so far, and indeed in order to rationalise time, I wouldn't repeat myself, and I wouldn't repeat a lot of the things that are said here, especially not to refer to any promises of this or that government, but instead I'd rather say something about the spirit of this law. In fact, the conditions of our lives and what Croatian defenders, the families of the victims and actually volunteers of the Homeland War are right and what they will actually be able to accomplish. Croatia is a small country with its 4 and a half million inhabitants, in fact there is no citizen who is not in one way or another who has participated in the defence of the dignity and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, in fact who was not either a participant or a member of the family of victims or participants of the Homeland War. I therefore support the extension of certain rights for these very specific reasons, but I would also like to warn some of the traps in implementing this Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Therefore, I support the extension of the rights to categories of participants in the Homeland War, members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and volunteers from the Homeland War and to members of the armed national protection teams and the HoS, as well as certain privileges and to the victims members of the fire department, and to other persons who, under the authority of the authorities, were killed in defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, as victims of civil protection and intelligence services. The fact is that Croatia was defending itself not only from trenches on the front line, the fact is that, with their presence, they defended Croatian war rapporteurs with their faithful reporting, that Croatia defended and medical personnel, that they created and defended all those anonymous people who thought that they were only defending their hearths, even those old people and children who escaped from the warring area, but actually encountered new war dangers away from their home. Our human and civil rights are guaranteed by the Constitution. The Constitution guarantees us the right to a decent life in quality conditions, the right to work, the right to quality health care, the right to education, the right to housing, of course, in an extended sense. That's actually all the questions that are being treated by this law for a very specific category of people. In my view, therefore, it is not a question of whether these rights are too wide or too narrow. Unfortunately, the question is that all of us, both as politicians and as a profession, are doing that in fact all citizens of the Republic of Croatia would have these rights, the rights guaranteed by the Constitution. If we were to live in a society that guarantees and enables the realisation of the constitutional rights of every Croatian citizen, then things would be much simpler and the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families would not have 162 articles, but perhaps only one who would read about this: the Croatian defender from the Homeland War is all the person who, as a volunteer and a member of one of the legitimate teams, organised in defence of the independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia during any period of the Homeland War. All rights of Croatian defenders are guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, though, we do not live in ideal society, nor can we get carried away by some forms of utopia today. We know that some things just can't be realized. And therefore, no matter how much I support the adoption of this law, I am also expressing the fact that we are going to achieve all these provisions of the law, how we are going to implement them, how actually Croatian defenders are going to consume those rights. Yesterday, an IMF mission came to Zagreb, publicly interested in drawing up the State budget for 2005. It was heard about the need to change fiscal policy, to reduce public spending, to reduce social rights. A meeting was held with union leaders who were called for understanding and were actually seen on those serious faces that the situation was also very serious. It is obvious that even union leaders had an understanding of the need for cutting in public consumption. Then, of course, there is a question to which I would also ask the answer, if possible, how we will actually provide financial resources under such conditions for the realisation of these rights of Croatian defenders. If we don't invest in development, then there are actually no new jobs, and then these rights can't even be realised, let's just say priority employment of Croatian defenders. If our health and social care is poor, then this poor health care service will be used just like any other Croatian citizen by a Croatian defender and, of course, by members of his family, and let's say that if we cut public spending, how will we actually provide the families of Croatian defenders, or how, for example, will we pay for the planned child benefits? When we are, of course, living in the care of the family of Croatian defenders and victims, I think that instead of integration into the normal environment, our society is still, for some reason, unfortunately doing geotisation. In the final part, let me have just one more thought in the spirit of some general human norms and the positive laws that apply in this country, each person is innocent until proven guilty. In that sense, I've read this law. So it is in the spirit of this bill, that it is better to give some right more to the Croatian defender than perhaps the Croatian defender and the victims of the Homeland War and the members of their families to end because of bureaucratic obstacles to the exercise of some right. I think that, at least I think it's a more honest approach, personally I don't like to bother myself with these bureaucratic obstacles, and I really think it's a greater shame if you deprive someone of some right, but if someone is using some right that maybe there's a whole right. So, here, I support the intensities of this law, but I am really worried about realising, not only are there so far the rights that exist in the current law and in the budget for this year, I believe in making a budget for next year, but actually for fulfilling all these rights that you have foreseen for the next, I hope for the next fiscal year. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24204	Thank you very much. Meanwhile, another 5 MPs and MPs withdrew their applications, increasing the number to 33. Dear Vice-President and Minister Jadranka Kosor, and the rest of them may consider the same example.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24205	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Madam Representative, thank you very much for your support. You've asked a very good question about the IMF and thank you for giving me a chance to answer. So there are no restrictions in the agreement with the IMF concerning the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, nor any obligation of the Croatian government in this regard, so that we are convinced that all of this, if the Croatian Parliament accepts, will be possible to implement not only in 2005, but also next year. I believe it will be a law that will be in force for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24206	Thank you very much. Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24207	Mr. President, Madam Minister. Croatian defenders left the gallery. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues I'll try to be brief, I promised you only three minutes, so I'll tell you next. The history of the Croatian people began long ago as long as it was so rich but was cruel to the Croatian man, we often knew how to punish ourselves throughout history. Well, I'll only mention that part of Croatia's latest history. From 1941 to 45, there were no winners at the time and he was a loser of the Croatian people and I will compare this only from 1990 when in the history of the Croatian people every day they were written and written positive pages of Croatian history. They have been special since 1990 because they were created in the unity of Croatia's homeland and emigrated, in the unity of the Croatian people from Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the unity of members of the Croatian national minority in European countries, and therefore this common wealth has created today and freed Croatia's sovereign, independent country, and brought us to the Croatian Parliament and I hope that this history will never be questionable. The truth she was trying to reduce that value in some way, I will not repeat the statements through what kind of story that has tried to diminish but has not diminished because what was created with Croatian blood cannot be reduced in the Croatian man in the Croatian people, the Croatian people who are responsible for the created Croatian state because it was created only in Croatian blood, because it was written down in the very history of the Croatian people with the victory of Croatian defenders led by the chiefs of the Armed Forces Dr. Franjo Tudjman. Gentlemen, until the recognition of the Croatian state, Croatia's blood on the ground of our beautiful ones was shed. But let us not forget when the powers of this world, when fate was shared at the tables of Europe and the world about the fate of the Croatian people, felt the powers of the world and Europe that the Croatian soldier had become organized, that he was rich, that he was strong and that he would create Croatia a state with his last drop of blood. Since then, according to the Croatian people, there has been a new relationship towards the Croatian state, and there has been recognition on January 15, 1992, and I always point out that only the Croatian defender put a banner in front of the United Nations building. But I'm going to cut this part short, and now I'm going to look back on the law, the bill that is before us, I support it, and I hope, regardless of today's debate whether they're painted SDP-ovski, HDZ-ovski that it's not going to change because it's good, because it's good. And through this law we will not be able to thank or thank those who have died or those who are alive. And this is little to thank them for what the Croatian soldier did. However, there is, everywhere in the world, that there must be one basis on which Croatian and Croatian defenders in the Croatian state will exercise their rights. Madam Minister, I am in my short opening speech, otherwise my opening speeches are longer than today mentioned that the Croatian people defended Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Croatian national minority and Croatian emigrants, so please my oral amendment to Article 1 I propose Article 2 which would vote, I hope that it is acceptable and that you will accept it. The rights of Croatian defenders, members of the Croatian Defence Council, will be regulated by an interstate agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this would be the basis for us to resolve those rights of members of the Croatian Defence Council which are partially resolved and which we need to resolve. In this way, we would have a very good basis to respond to what members of the Croatian Defence Council have tasked the Croatian state. And finally. Madam Minister, yesterday on our Committee on Immigration were members of the Associations of People's War, members of the Croatian Defence Council. They gave a single amendment in writing, and I'm not going to read it now because I promised three minutes, but I guess it's been four and thirty. I will give it to you in writing and I hope that you will consider it and, in the expectation of a positive I, with my heart, support this law and hope that it will correct the wrongs, and the merits are much greater.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24208	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, Vice President of the House Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24209	Mr. President, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is the law in the first reading, the law in the first reading, which means there will still be opportunities to fix it with any proposals of a concrete amendment or something like that. And I would say, this is a law that confirms that when a problem is seriously approached no matter how complex it is, it can come before the Croatian Parliament as a quality, well thought-out, good and balanced law, and that it actually guarantees and promises consensus in its adoption. This also means that we, as a state after 9 years of war, have matured to a degree that we can seriously reflect on this epochal event and on everything that is the consequence of the Homeland War and that we can adequately, how much this allows for opportunities and circumstances to be paid back to those who have defended and defended Croatia. In doing so, it is necessary to point out that it is never enough to say that our defenders did not defend their country in any territory, but that they did so on our national territory by defending it and establishing a Croatian state. All the committees that have submitted their reports here today show that the law has been adopted with various observations, additions and proposals by consensus. It means he's good, he's acceptable, he's balanced. And the fact that it was not brought at speed, that it allowed one period of harmonisation and agreement with the associations of the home war, and that it was necessary to invest a lot of both the capacity and the strength and the will and the understanding and the understanding that it was actually one quality and that this law I would say so, under the direction of the Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister, under its care, led to a successful end as regards the Government's proposal, i.e. that in the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, I dare say, more or less accepted by consensus. Now we have a time until the second reading to stabilize it all together, to see where certain minor or larger repairs are possible, but I think the core and foundation of the law is good and that we can pass this law so that it can take effect from 1.1.2005. I think that this Parliament has also shown all the parties in this House, that after 9 or 10 years after the Homeland War, it has been stabilised views of the Homeland War, that more or less everything that has come out of it has been accepted, so what we're talking about today, the rights of defenders, and that this is one of our common gains to which we can especially, if we bring it at a time of consensus, be all together proud and show one political maturity and agreeing on the essential issues of the Homeland War and the essential issues of the population that actually carried out the Homeland War and defended the homeland. It's one big gain of ours, and I don't think we should do anything to question such a single mood in any way. I hope we won't, and we'll soon bring in another reading like I said with our law and consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24210	Thank you very much. Five more MPs have also given up. Honorable representative Damir Spaincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24211	Dear Mr. President, Madam Vice President and Associates, I welcome you all, and I will speak very briefly, and I will not come from the Pacrac and Lipik area, the cities that were extremely injured in the Homeland War, since a large number of people have given up my speech, but I have to report with just a few sentences of praise and satisfaction. So I convey the pleasure of the Pakracans, Lipicans and people of Požega-Slavon County who really felt the worst form of the Homeland War. In this area there are also a number of defenders, volunteers, and I am glad that they are now directly involved in this group, in this law forgive and I will not list a whole series of new provisions that are incorporated into this law that will directly result in a better life in the area of Pacrac and Lipik. I especially welcome what will happen on the ground, which has already been done on 1.3 this year, so when the representatives of the ministry have been in our area and have already collaborated with the associations by preparing legislation on the ground, but also by talking to people about their problems. We now see in the law that, by the basis of such conversations and suggestions, they have incorporated the ministry into law a whole series of their proposals and recommendations. Allow me very briefly to express my satisfaction, therefore it has been extended to both firefighters and civil protection and to the members of the HOS, so we really think that there has been an injustice that has been corrected in recent years against the people who have defended this Croatia. As far as what is most important, and I consider not only what applies to the law, but also beyond, so to us here, it is the employment of Croatian defenders and the resolution of their problems, therefore existential. We have them in the law, but I suggest that both the Ministry and the Croatian Government pay attention to the resolution of life's existence, which is to ensure work and therefore ensure work, and thus retaining people in war-suffering areas. And in the end, I want to say something on behalf of the Pakistanis and the Lipics, and I'm going to have to read it. Madam Vice President, we had no doubt that you would meet what you've been doing for a number of years, but you weren't in the position of the minister of this ministry, so all that you've been saying over the past few years is now built in and I don't think there are any obstacles to this law being adopted in the second reading. We who come from these areas appreciate it. So all that has been done so far, but these have been the words, have been translated into acts against people living in the still difficult territory of the Republic of Croatia. And maybe something, just something to end. I express my personal satisfaction that the ministry's decision of 21.11.2003 two days before the parliamentary elections abolished the solution to the family disability of Dr. Ivan Schreter and thank you very much for being very quick on March 22nd, so you corrected it and returned all the rights belonging to Dr. Ivan Sheter, and I think the Croatian public is very well aware of who he was and what he was doing for this Croatian state. I certainly welcome once again and express my satisfaction and hope that soon, in the second reading, we will all accept this law together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24212	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mirko Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24213	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the government. Now, as far as this law is concerned, which we've all been looking forward to, I'm not going to talk much, although it's a good thing that this law has come out with a lot of people, a lot of people won't agree. But I'm just going to look back at one special category, which is the defense population, which is police officers, or special police officers. I place my biggest grudge on a point that says that members of the Croatian police who have failed to achieve HRV status will not receive any additional pension time spent in the Homeland War as is the case for Croatian defenders of 12 months for other categories. 10%, 15%, 20, 25, 30 and Homeland War volunteers 30%. It means that this category is unfairly abolished and I believe that the text of Article 14 of this proposal should be amended by putting a 4th point that should look like this: "That the Croatian defender from the Homeland War who is entitled to early retirement under the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials is thus increased by a corresponding percentage depending on the time spent in the Homeland War, up to 12 months 10%, from 12 to 24 months 15%, from 24 to 36 20%, from 36 to 48 25% and from 48 to 60 by 30%". The reason for this is that they are thus increased because without accepting these supplements, this category of Croatian law defenders from the ranks, I am talking about the police and the special police of the MUP will not be able to use any pension insurance rights other than the benefits of work that are absolutely unacceptable, which is provided for by this law, although they are Croatian police officers, or specialists, and we all know that they were... Croatian defenders from which the choice of the National Guard was later made, etc. etc. Now I don't think it should be mentioned, nor is it time for the victims given by the Ministry of Interior, or the Croatian police. 711 MAP employees died in the war. I think it's pointless to say anything further about it, and I think it should certainly be included in this Law, and that's my biggest regret being left out of the law, this particular category of defense attorneys. Next, I would say that article 19 for the pension factor, pension factor for disability pension due to professional inability to work. That instead of 0.33, the word "separated activity" is placed in 0.5. With this amendment, I propose that the disability pension be determined by the professional capacity to work, but remains a working capacity during employment, with the application of the pension factor 0.5 as set out in Article 80, first point 6. Pension Insurance Act. In this way, people with disabilities from the Homeland War would be equated with disabled workers who were the cause of disability or professional illness, which is indeed a minimum of the material security that Croatian defenders should have with HVI status, who did not want to use the right to a disability pension, have already decided on a demanding job and professional career in the right job, whose salary is significantly less than the amount of disability pension they have the right to make, but because of their youth they do not want to achieve because they are committed to their profession. And one more thing about importing cars. I think article 60 needs to be completed. That's my opinion, now whether the government accepts it or not. To recognise the right to import a single car without paying customs, special tax and value added tax to Croatian defenders who have acquired this right under the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and Family Members, the Law on Croatian Defences of 96, provided that they did not use this right during the application of this Act. Because I find it unfair, unfair to make a difference between defenders in any way. There were many who failed to achieve this right for these and those reasons. Whether they didn't have any money, and I believe that those who didn't do it, and if they did, I think it would be fair to allow the import of cars to all the defenders. Because once the rights of Croatian defenders are acquired should not be abolished, and there is no need to bring dissension among the defenders, because this clearly leads to unnecessary frustrations and conflicts, and yet it is not aimed at anyone. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24214	Thank you very much. There are five MPs left. Vice-President and Minister Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, so there's no confusion about this discussion of yours regarding members of the Special Police. So you read article 14 which speaks of the Croatian defender to whom he belongs, etc. However, I ask you to read Article 2 of this Law which defines what is the Croatian defender. Article 2 clearly states that the Croatian defender from the Homeland War is a person who is as a volunteer and a member of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, in the brackets of the Croatian Army, the MORH, the Police, the MUP, the Croatian Defence Forces, the HOS, etc. Therefore, the police are involved. So Article 14 speaks about regulating pension insurance rights for Croatian defenders, but it is of course also a member of the Police and certainly a member of the Special Police. I don't think there's much to explain. As for cars and privileges of importing cars, unfortunately it was abolished by the 2001 Act. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24216	Thank you very much. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24217	I would like to thank Mr. President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here is after the spectacular announcements of the new Law on Defences, which will, above all, restore to the defenders the dignity which, according to the publishers of the new law of the last years, has been trampled and trampled, which was to correct all injustices, we have before us the bill of law that defense associations say. Aside from cosmetic grooming, little has changed. Representatives of some associations say: "This is the cartoon of the law that we supported and which went before the government. Although we received the bill late, we in the County of Ship-Posavina", therefore, County of Ship-Posavina, "organised a round table attended by representatives of all associations who expressed regret that no one from the Ministry of Family, Defence, intergenerational solidarity was present, although they were invited". So in my debate, I will use the exclusive views of the representatives of the associations, even though what I heard here today in the assembly, I do not understand who is speaking on whose behalf. Because we have a tone record, and we have a phonogram, so if you have to, Madam Minister, or Vice-President of the Government, we will deliver it to you to see how the county associations speak. Their common position has changed a little. Such an attitude is collapsing with the opinion and attitude of the promoters, who, in his explanation, says, "return some of the rights prescribed by the Law of 96, and recognise some new rights for Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, and especially volunteers from the Homeland War, especially from the area of pension rights. This is how the law is meant to be fair and enforceable at the same time." The truth is that there is an increase in disability, but only certain categories of people with disabilities. Partly and children's allowance is increased and the minimum pension institute is introduced on all pensions of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War reached according to the general rules as well as under this Law, and 45% of the average net salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia in the year preceding the year of the exercise of law. The vast majority of defenders are supposed to benefit from this provision in 15 to 20 years. Perhaps at that time this will not be a convenience, it will only be seen then, and today most of the defenders have nowhere to work and does not know how they will exercise their right to retire. It is not evident from the Law that these are the great rights of the volunteers of the Homeland War. It is true that Article 2(3) defines volunteers, but of all rights is the only right of volunteers to an increased pension of 30%. Speaking of definition, it is good to consider whether it provides a guarantee of righteousness. If he doesn't carry volunteer status with him, so-called. material rights can then be concluded that the acquisition of status brings only moral satisfaction. And that is why the definition must bring justice and righteousness, not bring new divisions. And the law says, "The volunteer of the Homeland War is the Croatian defender who participated in the defense of its sovereignty for at least 100 days, and in conclusion until 15.1.92." By surface reading it would seem to be okay, but it's not like that. Thinking about what this definition means in practice, then I remember a young man who was to me in early November, Madam Vice President, I have a remark that I would like you to hear... who came in early November 1991 with a request to be his, to help him to go to the battlefield as his principal because he wants to defend his country. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[You can't hear the phone.]] He was already disabled because by accident he lost his left hand. I'm trying to explain to him that he's disabled, and he's explaining to me that he's a tanker and that unlike some people who run, he wants to defend his country, even with one hand. In agreement with the competent doctor, the young man went to the battlefield, but they brought him back from there as a disabled man. Once again, we return it to him four times in a row. He went into the Medak pocket four times and lost his leg there. Under this law, he is not a volunteer of the Homeland War. If he's not like him, then who is he? It seems it was those who took the Kalashnikovs with a lot of enthusiasm and walked the streets with them, but only until the moment the first bullet was fired on the enemy side. Some of them ran off with their heads no matter what they did with the guns. And we know that. Unlike the young man mentioned earlier, they are volunteers of the Homeland War. According to this definition, the volunteers of the Homeland War are not even women who were never obliged to wear the uniform of Croatian soldiers, and they put on and took the rifle in their hands, for example, at the end of October, November, if you will in December 91st. Since this is the first reading we have enough time to find a definition that will be satisfactory and be a factor of uniting all and real volunteers, not a factor of further division. Furthermore, this Law bears the name of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families. Therefore, all defenders of this Law expect the solution to most of their problems, even though we know that this is not realistic. When we take a fundamental look at it then we will see that the defence attorney's status only gives the defender the right to release the fee for the re-use of agricultural land and this law introduces the right to bury with military honor, and according to the promoter in the explanation of the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity will bear the cost of burial. That part of the defender who realized it said, "My children, my wife and I are cursing fate for not being killed or at least not being wounded." This isn't easy to listen to, let alone think about, which we heard on the Round Table. But that part says: "I went to war from my post in the belief that when the war ended, when I came back to my place there was someone else or there was no business or job anymore. Not only do I not work, my wife doesn't work, and the children are grown and should go to high school or college." The second part of the defender says, "Better defender without any special rights, but among true defenders than a defender with all rights and privileges among the defenders who have never been." Given all the objections, one is the conclusion that the law is necessary, but the assumption is fair in the law is the Registrar's Register. The Association’s views were shared on the establishment of the Register, today their common position and demand to form the Register is the assumption of both justice and the implementation of any law. How do you get to the Register? The defenders believe that there is no fair register without lineup of troops headed by their commanders. They object to any evidence of defence status based on the testimony of two witnesses. This attitude is totally acceptable to me because as a lawyer and a lawyer, I know that proving the facts is the most insecure way through a witness hearing. This way, we will quickly reach a million defenders and this will be the most difficult degradation and torture of the dignity of the true defenders and the disabled of the Homeland War, and the tendency of this Law is to prove its status on the basis of statements by two witnesses. Of course, that is a significant factor and defining the beginning and end of the Homeland War. The beginning and completion cannot be defined depending on the political will but must be scientifically justified. It is further noted that the law is vague and understandable to those to whom it is intended. The defenders claim that it is unclearly written only to be subject to interpretations, interpretation can be as often as is the case with any political power at that time. Here, as an example of a vague provision, I quote Article 1 of Article 4 which says: "The Croatian Defence of the Homeland War, which, on the basis of the completed retirement internship, exercises the right to an age pension less than the pension that would have belonged to it by 40 years, the personal point is increasing, etc." What did the poet mean by this? The conditions for retirement are the years of employment and the years of age, here it is said that on the basis of a retirement pension, the defender has earned the right to an retirement pension, which means that a man for 40 years or 35 years of employment, so if that is the case, a less pension than a pension that would belong to him for 40 years of employment. This kind of example has a whole series and ultimately to consume all the rights that are foreseen and which are given the interpretation, to all those who, by the law of the day as well as those whose number of laws will increase significantly, the planned 3 billion and 600 million kuna are certainly insufficient. The unclear and imprecise law certainly will not reach a law that is fair and enforceable, but we will get a law that is unfair and inequitable, because the state will not be able to provide funds for the payment of the right and possible amount...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24218	Thank you very much. You're a bit of a poet, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24219	And the possible amount will have to be shared both by the right and the wrong, and there is no greater injustice or degradation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24220	Thank you very much. Replica, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24221	Mr. President, the Honorable Vice President, Madam Minister. Speaking of these statements, Ms. Lalic, I believe that the lady with no right can judge the defenders who only participated in the gun until the first bullet was fired because she was probably never in the defense of the Croatian homeland, so we do not give her the right to judge who was who. And on the other hand, I want to read the telegrams sent by the organizations, so that there are no misunderstandings about not being supported. General Dečak sent a telegram to this Croatian Parliament in which he speaks clearly and loudly to state Mrs Ingrid Anticevic and Mrs Lalic are false and that she does not want to argue at all because the law supports it entirely. Mrs. Khrushkar also sent a telegram stating that she clearly and loudly supported this Law and that no dispute had ever been about its specifics.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24222	Thank you very much. First injure of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24223	Well, thank you, Mr. President. First of all, indeed, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I think that you have injured the Rules of Procedure and this Article 209, because here says the representative must be limited to correction, otherwise the President will take away his word. And there was a replica here, so here's my apology. Then allow me to reply to the replica to read the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24224	I agree you've also raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure which has now been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24225	I apologize to you because I'm in the mood for the debate, or listening to what my colleague was saying a little confused the tiles. Mr. Djakic, dear representative, don't talk about other people's fate and other people's contribution, because you don't know who was where or who was what was. And as for this telegram of yours, you certainly insinuate because I haven't spoken a word today, not a single correction of the false assumption, not a single replica, not a single violation of the Rules of Procedure unlike you. And I've fenced myself and said what I'm saying isn't my opinion, it's the representatives of the county organizations' associations. There was a gentleman, he's gone, and there's Frano, there was Mr. Frano Piploić at that meeting, there was also the chairman of the War Veterans Committee, and we have a phonogram and we have a tone record, and we will be very happy to show you that you see what your membership thinks as opposed to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24226	Thank you. Vice-President Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24227	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, I also have to abuse very briefly or use this time to explain some of the allegations from the presentation of the distinguished representative Lalic. Mrs. Lalić mentioned a round table that was organised in Slavonski Brod and said that no one from the Ministry was present at this meeting, we received a call with an announcement that one of the Ministry would address there the day before. I believe I don't have to explain to you that it's impossible for the Ministry of the Ministry to organise such a difficult job that several hours before holding a round table on which you are announced that you will be speaking to someone or State Secretary or Minister or one of the assistants, it was impossible and we have in that sense referred our own in some way to the organizers. You're saying there's been an assessment there that it's a law cartoon, I absolutely don't accept it, this isn't a law cartoon, this is a law that's been done for several months by experts and representatives of associations. So, the association you're talking about, and you're mentioning the indignation of the associations. I am now of course interested in why such a round table was not organised in 2001, 2002, 2003, and then you would hear what it is about indignation of the 2001 Law Association. And you said no one would see the effect of this law. It will. As far as these pensions are concerned, I've told you we've been doing simulations for the following year about 10,000 Croatian defenders who have acquired conditions under the general rules would have included these provisions on the lowest pension, which is not small, so next year the effects will be seen. As far as the funeral is concerned, it's the same thing the Croatian defenders asked for and as far as the stories are concerned, I know that each of us hears something that shakes him, which touches him deeply and touches him from the stories of Croatian defenders but believe what we face is simply expressed through numbers. So far, it's come to the Ministry with applications, complaints, complaints and cries most frequently aided, 34 thousand 803 letters, meaning in nine months. All these letters should be answered, but not in the sense that we are glad to receive your letter or I am pleased to receive your letter, your Minister, with respect, etc., but people are expecting answers. Therefore, the terrible fates of people once again repeat and humiliated and offended by it I do not think, I believe that you face such fates and stories, but here we are, of course, not to be convinced. I just want to repeat once again to you that we are and this best tells what position Croatian defenders are in, many of them, who are particularly unemployed on the verge of existence. So, the demand for one-time aid has increased since last year by a thousand 260%. So, with 330 grand as on behalf of one-time aids paid in the last year for a million and 171 grand this year. Here, thank you and I believe it will contribute to further discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24228	Thank you very much. Next up is Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24229	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I, too, belong to those who would certainly not answer for the word because today, everything is truly said that I do not come from a place where today is also being monitored here in the Assembly, so from Bosnia and Herzegovina where particularly interested people are members of the Croatian Defence Council. On their behalf, I sincerely thank all those who spoke positively and to the best extent about the Croatian Defence Council or about help. It is a great event, a great moment that a consensus has been reached in the Croatian Parliament on the matter that Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina or the victims have helped defend Croatia and their home, the sovereign state of Bosnia and Herzegovina but thus Croatia and vice versa, because if there were no aid then there would most likely be no survival of one state or another. When it comes to this item in Article 1 mentioned by Mrs Babic, I am most warmly joining the application. I hold it with a very important link from which it will be able to get out and perform what we expect as an operational part that will address these issues, which is the interstate agreement between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. When it comes to this assistance, therefore, Croatian victims of HVO defenders must be made clear here that people understand exactly what it is. Croatia will not bear the full burden of this great problem. She'll be participating in one piece. Therefore, downstairs people would be very pleased if pensions were made here and, say, health insurance while disabled people could be resolved within Bosnia and Herzegovina or the Federation and at the third level in the counties because we also have counties down there, so the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina could regulate other rights such as housing of victims etc. Therefore, assistance to members of the Croatian Council of Defence in its own way is aid and stabilisation throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina and a very important message of peace and stabilisation throughout the area. I'd actually finish my exposure to a little anecdote that I think is important. After one of the consultations that was held, I think in Sibenik on the topic of the medical rehabilitation of Croatian defenders asked my friend, a respected professor from Israel, which is with the rights of defenders in Israel, how they are being realized, or what are the issues that are bothering them, etc. And for the illustration at the time it was somewhere I think in 2002 I took two weeks, I don't know a diary one and showed him actually various titles. He marveled at these signs of Croatian defenders. He said we in Israel have all the same rights and I was a little surprised. And he continued, and the defenders have privileges. Therefore, I do not accept that when it comes to privileges, they are pronounced with one of the sounds of something dishonest, unacceptable, etc. Therefore, the privileges, why not. It's right to enter a football game, a theater after you buy a ticket. Our defenders bought those tickets and all of us together. However, it is a privilege to sit in a box, in a solemn box, and this place belongs to defenders and victims anyway. This place belongs to all those who understand it and support it, so to the defenders and the losers, that they may exercise the rights that belong to them. This place certainly belongs to our Deputy Prime Minister, or to this ministry, who has built this law that will go hand in hand with these.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24230	Thank you very much. There's a word from Mrs. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24231	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Minister! Taking part in this debate on the proposal for a law on the rights of Croatian defenders, I welcome this bill. I thank you for proposing it, and I just have some remarks about the way it was written, in terms of sentences. There's some confusion in the sentence configuration, it's a little vague, there's some nomotechnic deficiencies, but that's what I noticed in this morning's debate that you saw, and I'm guessing these are the things that will be removed by the second reading. However, first of all, I would refer to the provision of Article 2 which you yourself quoted here as a pay phone which extends the circle of persons placed under the common denominator of Croatian defenders, which raises the question whether the applicant has identified the exact number of Croatian defenders, means both volunteers and members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Armed Forces, the MORH, the police, the MUP, the Croatian Defence Forces, the HoS, members of the armed national protection squads as well as the deadlyally injured defenders defined in Article 3(1) and the mortally injured persons in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, as set out in paragraph 2 of the same article, as well as how much increase in relation to the number of Croatian defenders is established under the current law. I haven't seen that information anywhere, maybe I'm unlisted, but it would be good to have the numerical data in the second reading. I think it might tell us something. I must also stress that I welcome the proposed law to introduce new institutes, an example of the minimum pension institute that improves the status of the poorest group of defenders. I absolutely welcome you. I think unfortunately it took nine years to determine that, but better ever than never. However, the question is whether or not it is possible to implement this law by introducing new institutes and extending the circle of users, given the means available. I believe that due to the questionable implementation of this law, it is in question the exercise of the rights of a group of defenders established under the applicable laws. That is why I would also like to see in the next reading of this numerical data on the number of defenders of all groups and those that you have introduced new and higher budgets that will be shown for next year. This also raises the issue of the number of Croatian defenders under the current law, and you start a halted revision of the number and degree of disability of Croatian military disabled persons who should be constantly available to the public on the Internet, which would cause a positive defence response and contribute partly to the return of the injured defender's dignity. As far as I know, not at this point are not those lists on the Internet, but I think it would be very good if all Croatian citizens could take a look and especially defenders for their colleagues, so that they can look at which positions they are located, where they are on the list and where they are. That would contribute in any case to the general public. What is definitely missing by reason of this law is the projection of the dynamics of the implementation of the laws proposed and guaranteed rights of defenders, depending on the status and all figures higher than the budgetary items and possibilities of this State, and the deadlines in which the State will fulfil its obligations to the defenders. I have to admit here primarily from housing because that's what I've been dealing with for 3.5 years. Here I would particularly refer to the views relating to exactly the housing care for which the area was to expect and perhaps even more quality solutions. For this area, in the context of the bill proposal, no known information on the number of Croatian defenders has been provided on a residential basis in 97 to 2003 and how much more housing needs to be taken care of. The illustration itself is about possibilities, only illustrations are about the possibilities of the state of organised construction in the period 97/2003. The year for the victims of the Homeland War and the members of the families of the prisoners and the missing in those six years was built cca. Five thousand apartments. That's what I'm saying for that reason so we can get opportunities and projections out of it for the next period. Far away, of course, even today we are witnessing built objects that have been unauthorized for several months and days, my colleague Ivić here, as you know, you and I have a duel here. I mention it, of course, the facility in Turkey next to which all citizens who have been going south for months and months are still standing as you know unmoved, so facilities in Senj, Slavonski Brod, Valturska, Spain etc.. We know what we're talking about. Noting that the reasons for quality are only alibis for not giving up a solution, I do not claim that they are quality but I also think it is possible to move in. All technical shortcomings have long been able to resolve, and the special story is certainly the city of Vukovar. A city that was covered by this programme significantly later for peaceful reintegration, a reintegration that followed in 97. And in which this very organised programme can contribute significantly to the revitalisation of the city's core itself. However, I do not notice that this is where new projects are being entered. I'd love to see you come in. I must point out from personal practice that certain provisions of this Act, the proposed Law, are defined in a way that is difficult to implement in practice, and I am now referring you to this. A provision of Article 39(2) laying down where organised construction is carried out and three options are offered and the question of how to determine the place of construction is raised, that is something to... met in practical application of the law very often. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has also not been established who and how, on the basis of which it decides where organised construction will be carried out, on which basis it will be implemented, which lists. In order to implement organised construction, it is necessary to first know how much the user wants a given housing loan for the purchase of an apartment in organised housing. What if units of local self-government don't have building land that they can give for that purpose? What if units of local self-government have but refuse to grant construction land and utility? What are the sanctions for failing to comply with these units of local self-government? Here I would recommend that you look at the way Mrs Dropulić has solved in the Law on Spatial Planning, which she introduced to disrespect the legality of the municipality's chiefs. What about buying an apartment in my own direction, which I particularly welcome. That's where I point out, that's one way to deal with housing. However, the price difference, this morning someone thinks, Mrs Adlesic mentioned the diversity of prices in certain municipalities and cities. Large cities have a shortage of apartments, a high price of square meters while in small towns and small towns there are almost no apartments on the market at all. Cost adjustment of 700 euros. The return of the part relating to municipal infrastructure and land. So, at the purchase and from the third to the third person. It's all a piety that needs to be solved by this law. So that's what I'm just saying to look back on until the second reading. For this reason, the Law should regulate that users who use a given housing credit to purchase an apartment in organised construction and can use it in the county where they have their residence. It is also an HVIDRE remark if you have read it you have seen that they have the same observation. One more moment. The text of the bill discusses the possibility of buying an apartment with a turnover payment. Since it is not clear what the promoter meant whether the purchase of the apartment was built on organised construction and on something else, it is necessary to specify and define the term of the payment. I've never seen that term as a definition anywhere. Furthermore, I believe that the provisions of Articles 43, 44, 45 and 46 should not be an integral part of this Act but rather a regulation which is defined in Article 47, primarily because they regulate the matter subject to change and a far simpler procedure of amending the Regulation than going into the procedure of amending and supplementing the Law. It's purely technical. And a little more. Since the process of setting out the list of priorities for the award of housing loans is not seen, which will certainly be the matter of the regulation, I still believe that the Law should define whether single lists or county lists, permanent lists, as well as how to inform the public. In the end, I must point out that nowhere in the residential care section is the purchase of dwellings for users who are homelyly cared for by the assignment of an apartment according to the earlier valid, now applicable law on whether it means that all apartments were bought or not considered necessary provisions of the Law to resolve not buying up apartments. That the formulation of the provision of Article 38 housing will be provided by means of means available to open up the possibility of resolving a very, very long time period for Croatian wartime disabled and their family members as special categories in our society to provide neither legal protection nor legal certainty. I would therefore, although we support the law in its best intention, I doubt the possibility of its implementation, that it will improve the status and dignity of the defence population precisely because of the expansion of the category and number of persons it refers to. For a second reading, the Law should certainly be complemented by a numerical and dynamic feasibility plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24232	Thank you very much. Madam Minister and Vice President Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Madam Representatives, Your Honor, Your Honor, thank you very much for your support in the realization of this Act, of course, and your remarks will be carefully discussed in this section of housing. However, since you asked what happened to the apartments of Spain, Senj, I don't know if you mentioned Pula, here I have prepared for today's debate, so now it's an opportunity to show what it's really about. The apartments are so bad, I believe that you know that we, or the Ministry of Civil Engineering, have made a huge effort and, unfortunately, in certain buildings or buildings, this is still going on. They're so badly made, they're so bad they're just nobody can move in. Here, I'll show you examples for Spain, you'll probably find this hard to see, but here's non-solid construction, non-solidating pipe merger, then performance, so there's no half of the parquet, or there's already in apartments that are new cash-inflated moisture, completely inadequately solved window frames. Here in the bathroom so solved the toilet that the water pours on all the old ones. Half the plates are gone, half the tiles are gone, half the tiles are gone. Then you have, say Senj too, here's Senj's roof has no clumps, partly there's no crevices normally that the water leaks and it leaks, and here in the apartments it causes terrible moisture. So before any of the tenants set foot in those apartments, here you can see, you can also get that insight. So here's an apartment where one part of the floor is simply missing. We had a lot of cases of apartments from Gradiška to Virovitica where, for example, there were not half the tiles on the loggia or on the balconies etc., etc.. So the efforts are being made to resuscitate it, and I believe by the end of this year that it will be repaired and that we will share the keys to the apartments, and as far as further projects are concerned, the Ministry of Construction is proposing another solution to our ministry regarding the unmoved apartments of POS. I believe it is the same possibility, some hundred apartments, but in time we will report to the Croatian public and all interested representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24234	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Frano Piploic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24235	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Vice-President, I have reported earlier to correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Lalićka, however here I did not get the opportunity, so at first, as a participant of this famous round table in Slavonski Brod, I would say two words. First of all, the fact is, there were words of those mentioned by a colleague. I mean it's a round table like any round table. People were making more of their troubles and the troubles they were facing than it was, it was a reference to the bill. The fact is that most people had nothing to do with what was proposed in this law, or they probably read more in the press and therefore made appropriate conclusions. And another thing where the colleague was not, it was not true, is that at that meeting that opinions were made, I will only read one sentence, he says, "For the debate Mr. Mato Gavran has proposed, and the audience supported the following positions," it is not true, no one expressed any views nor who supported those views. What's written here is the secretary of the County Assembly, I don't know who made it according to one of his own, his own intentions. So these weren't views of any, any groups accepted, subsequently formulated, and I don't understand why this meeting was organised. Here's the whole record, if you're interested, you can see it. But here's why I called and I'll be very brief. I couldn't tell you today when I was talking on behalf of the club. We have three groups of people that we have to sort out in order to get ahead of ourselves or that would not happen again to spit lawsuits at the Administrative Court to prove that someone was a defense attorney and a defense status. That's what it's about. When we see here people's protection and civil protection entering, in that category I'm looking for, I've been looking for this... the possibility of finding those categories of people I want to tell you about right now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In September 1991, in Slavonski Brod municipality, we received orders from the command of the Eastern Slavonia and Baranja defence forces on September 20th. It's an encrypted document, and I'm not going to read it right now, but it means the foundation of a single document has introduced a state of war. Based on this in the area of Slavonski Brod municipality, each director was given a working obligation and he was actually a kind of commander within his own company. And all those people didn't go to the plant, and they were, they didn't go to the battlefield, they stayed in the companies. Clearly now the question of the category of these people is being asked. Not because they would have achieved some of their material, social rights but are interested in status law in fact, if they had already been determined by local administrations then or by the state to work their work and military tasks in the company, they believe that they should also have the status of Croatian defenders. And that, that's what this meeting was about at Slavonski Brod. Furthermore, there is another category that is not included here, and these are members of the crisis headquarters. In what way will these members of the crisis headquarters, acknowledge their status in the 1990s, the people who received the weapons, the famous weapons of the Spegels and divided it, hid it and so on and prepared themselves for defense, how do these people treat? Were they defenders, were they some Croatian Bin Ladens at that time? ... Anyway, but I know cases like these that are in the Administrative Court, they've lost the dispute and I can't prove my defense. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Next, there's another problem. I think Madam Vice President is familiar with that. It's about family members of missing persons who are the result of ethnic cleansing in Sreme. You have men who have worked within their means. Then, on defence in the region of Šida, for example, in the area of the border with Yugoslavia then, the Abjanovic family, the Mato and Ivica brothers, disappeared, were killed. Their family members cannot exercise any right to do so. Mother's an old woman. He can't exercise any right. A woman has health problems, a son also has health problems. Let's say these are some border cases that, in any case, we heard during that debate that this law wants to be and just that people who really gave themselves their health to worry about the status of Croatian defenders. Here I am no longer going to mention other cases, but in any case we should take care of, or at least, to be led under another category so that there are no unnecessary lawsuits and lawsuits that will surely further lead people to some unnecessary frustrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24236	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24237	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the end of this long debate just a few principled things because we will anyway have a whole series of amendments to the Final Bill when it happens, and we hope that we have already spoken to the representatives of our club that he will nevertheless appear before the budgetary debate so that he may know what we really are counting on. Because if we passed the law after the budget then it's all quite hypothetical and it can vary a lot and there's a lot of problems in its realization that will otherwise be a lot of problems. I, your last address, would encourage me to put some thought ahead of us. Here's to the next reading when we were showing these pictures of apartments that were disastrously made, the failures, it seemed pretty ugly here when it was seen, but the question of what the executive authority in Croatia did to prevent those who did so, so those who took over those apartments, those who were building, to take on some responsibility to prevent this bribe and corruption, because it was obviously a strong corruption procedure when it was accepted, the buildings were taken over, they were assigned to the defenders, and you yourself have shown yourself, you have convinced in countless times by going around the terrain what the situation was like with those apartments. Therefore, the battle with corruption will be the main problem of implementing any law on the rights of Croatian defenders because I personally believe that it is not the most important issue of material rights. We are all aware that the situation in Croatia is the economy as it is, that we can't always pass the laws that we would like but what our real options are, but what I'm passing some law, it must be truly enforceable and it has never been implemented before, and the laws that had good sides and bad sides, but I can say that they were worse or worse because they can never be ideal laws, but the problem has been in the implementation of, or the red tape that implements the law and which, as a rule, fell on the exercise exam, especially the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders. The conduct of red tape towards defenders has caused a large part of the dissatisfaction of Croatian defenders. You're a witness, Madam Minister, and I've seen enough times for people to be able to bring their problems to someone, so they can be heard so they can at least promise something to do. And countless times, those of those who were competent to receive them talk and do, were welcomed by the words of who you were guilty of being at war, who sent you there, countless times. I personally became convinced of this very often, and I believe that you, too, are the minister of finally Croatian defenders. Which you had just said before that you had thousands and letters to answer to not only did we receive, but there is something to answer. I believe that it was often possible to prevent unwanted situations, that there was more hearing, more love for these people, more responsibility and feelings. THAT, though, they also made it possible for those sitting in offices, who read the laws that enforce the decisions of the competent bodies that they too were sitting right where they were sitting on the foundation of the Homeland War. And if they did, I'd say they're not going to stand by the people who come up with these problems of theirs, but I'm sure they're dealing with a true relationship of dignity and respect to the people who created this state of Croatia. Because I speak proudly of dignity as one category, as one condition, it implies the whole society's relationship to the Homeland War and to the Croatian defenders. And I would like to remind you that in the good adoption of the Homeland War declaration, we have warned from our party's club that declation itself will not be sufficient to protect this country war. The declaration is a declaration. She's practically non-binding. And because I don't have the dignity of the Homeland War, I built it into the law. Because we had situations where this Croatian High House was told that the Croatian aggressor was in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the Croatian army was carrying out the ethnic cleansing of the Serbs in Croatia. And that's from the MPs sitting here. Therefore, I suggest that you consider in the Government that the chapter against protecting the integrity of the Homeland War should be incorporated into the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders. We can't just stay on the declaration because it's practically not being implemented in Croatia. She's not having a good time, but she's practically leaving herself to each and every one of us according to her beliefs. I can have one belief in the Homeland War, Milorad Pupovac has another belief in the Homeland War. But if he had the law, then he'd have him and me on equal terms. And that is why I urge you to consider, until the second reading, the chapter in the Law on the Protection of the Depth of the Homeland War. What I'd like to say is that the evaluation of any law on defenders and this will show time. We do not want apriras to be against the law, I would demystify the role of the associations that were often spoken of here, you know that the coordination of the association's past law was also supported by was in principle going to support this law. I therefore hold that the law is still passed here in the Croatian Parliament. We are able to accept the attitudes of the associations more or less. But it is the Parliament who, based on the general knowledge of the complete situation, can bring it, should not be a venue in which the association will bid more or less support to this Law. Because we know they didn't support all the associations. One of the major associations I'm not going to mention names now has given both harsh criticism and evaluations to this law, at least in the first reading. So we'll see today by the number of administrative lawsuits what the quality of this law is. It will be one of the criteria by which we will be able to evaluate it, but I would now not speak of me but of another principle issue. Because I know I don't have much more time. And what I want to re-absorbed here are some of those colleagues and fellow MPs talking. It's a question of the Croatian Defence Council. Namely, dr. Bagarić my distinguished colleague and representative from the special list said he should help the Croatian Defence Council. I think the better expression would be and he will agree with me I think we should not talk about helping Croats to the BIH and HVO rather than the obligations of the Croatian state. Because the body is our strategic interest. This is our obligation, as many members of the Croatian Defence Council were directly involved in the beginning of the Homeland War both in operations and in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we can agree to another reading, we can be very said, flexible about the level of law. Material rights. Because we do not think that the Law on the Praives of Croatian defenders and their families must be primarily merely the protection of material rights, but the principle of justice must be implemented. The principle of justice under which the unity of the Croatian Armed Forces will be granted its affirmation and confirmation in this proposal by which members of the Croatian Defence Council will in no way be discriminated against by members of the HOS in Croatia or members of the National Guard Assembly or special police or any Croatian Guard brigade. So, I suggest that we think about it, it's a political decision. I know what the problems are, but there are probably some lines of border state policy under which you can't go. What counterpart Zdenak suggested was that the international agreement would address the issue. It's also a declarative nature. I wish you could tell us what the general basics of the Croatian government are at the hearing on the interstate agreement. We need to know what this is about. But on the other hand, we also need to know that it is possible that if the agreement is agreed by the governments, we know the state of BiH of the state. We know that members of the Croatian Defence Council and in the media are treated in BiH as an aggressor army in BiH, as Ustashas, I do not know in all ways. We must have a protective mechanism here and the only mechanism is to guide who is all Croatian defender, there are also members of the Croatian Defence Council. So if negotiations fail, and if it can be seen that it will not go in the way we want it to be determined, we always have the possibility of applying the law on the rights of Croatian defenders to members of the Croatian Defence Council. And in that direction, it's extremely important about this dodgy reading to take account. Because first of all, it's a political evaluation. I don't think there's a key to the slavem of material segregation that needs to be singled out. Because if we are talking about the principle of justice, then we must not now because there are several thousand defenders more or less to treat them in a way that is easier to get rid of, because they are not currently resident in the Republic of Croatia. With these few thoughts until the second reading, I ask you to take care of what we suggest. Because we're inclined and I want this law and we give our hand to him. But he says, there are some principles that will be conditional on our support under this law that we all want to be quality and good to the extent that it can be because of the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24238	Thank you very much. With this, a list of agents has been exhausted. I'd like to request the final Mrs. Vice President and Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24239	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Thank you very much for the extensive, comprehensive dispersion that passed the mouth in a good atmosphere of tolerance. And here I really commit myself first that the final bill will be drawn up as soon as possible. So that we can respect all these deadlines for the vote of law so that it can take effect early next year. And second, of course, I commit myself to all those constructive proposals that can improve this bill by the time I finally read it, of course, install it into the law. In line with the state's capabilities at the moment, as was the case just before. I also invite you there were MPs here who actually made quite concrete remarks concerning the nomotechnics, and so on. If one of the MPs also wants to get involved and help write the final draft of the ministry's door is open. Thank you very much, and I believe we will see each other very soon during the debate on the final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24240	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. They'll vote when the conditions are met. And tomorrow at 9.30 we start with the 8th point of the Amendment Law on amendments and additions to the forest laws. And the other order will be announced by the President of the Parliament. Thank you very much and good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-04-0.u24241	Proposal for a law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, first reading, P.Z. 180. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. One, the proposal for a law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please engage. Please vote. As a result, I find that, unanimously with 106 votes, the proposed conclusion is accepted. We're moving on with the session. It is on the agenda - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 176. The Proposer is the Government. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. The emergency draft brings together the first and second reading of the law, the amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate conducted by the Committee on Law, Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The discussion was also conducted by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. I would like the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Economy of Mr. Josip Bartolcic to further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
