ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24243	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Let me briefly explain the proposed amendments to the Forest Act. The basic intensity of the amendments and the addition of this Act is to create legal assumptions for the establishment of a forest inspection within the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Water Economy and, in accordance with the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Central Authorities of the State Administration, which is prescribed that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy shall, inter alia, carry out inspection tasks relating to forestry. The bill also provides for a form of inspection structure as well as inspection supervision that is in line with the current state of inspection, expected changes in the area of surveillance and other laws. The proposed law also amends the provisions of Articles 44 and 45 which distinguish the jurisdiction of forest, economic and mining inspections under the Law on State Inspectorate and the Mining Act. In accordance with Article 61 of Regulation (EU) No The forest law provides for the possibility of establishing services in the forest or on forest land for the purpose of exploiting mineral raw materials and raising several years of plantation and, in addition, to address legal objections regarding the interpretation of Article 61 in the sense of the existence of a legal stand for the establishment of services for those purposes. It is noted that by now the Government has already made 10 decisions on service to use mineral raw materials and raise multi-annual plantations and that in this way any further possibility of a two-use interpretation of Article 61 has been removed. Finally, all those articles that regulated the former public enterprise of the Croatian forest P.O. are deleted with the proposed changes and additions. Zagreb and its bodies since it was also transformed in 2002 into the company of the Croatian Forests d.o.o. These amendments and additions to the Law create legal assumptions for the formation and inspection of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy and therefore we propose this emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24244	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yes, the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24245	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 10th session held on 4 November 2004, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, with the final proposal for a law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the proposed Law have been discussed by the Committee in the capacity of the home working body and do not object to the proposal of the Proposer to apply the emergency procedure in its adoption. Following the introduction of the proposal, the Committee supported the adoption of this Act in a full debate involving representatives of the Croatian Forest Society. First of all, for the purposes of harmonising it with the provisions of the Law on Design and the Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration. However, some raised questions and doubts were raised. This primarily refers to erasing provisions that enabled Croatian forests to exploit mineral raw materials for their own purposes, and for the purpose of building fire and forest roads. The debate indicated that the right of service for the exploitation of mineral raw materials is not the most acceptable solution, and that it would be more appropriate to enable the demarcation of certain forest land to be reused. It is also an opinion that it would not be good to support the provision of Article 1 in which Article 22 is deleted. The forest law because it would thus exclude the Croatian Parliament from deciding on the status issues of the Croatian Forests. In the debate, the Committee assessed the urgency of the adoption of this Forest Act. After the debate was held, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, by a majority vote, 7 votes in favour and 2 votes in abstention to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24246	Thank you very much. Does the rapporteur want any other committees that held the hearing? The Committee on Spatial Planning, the rapporteur, the esteemed representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24247	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament, held on 15 October, discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests, with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee considered the proposed law as an interested working body in accordance with Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly in the section relating to the conditions of exploitation of mineral raw materials in the forest and forest land. The Committee supported the proposal from the applicant in the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law under consideration. The applicant's representative explained the proposed amendments and additions to the laws which primarily relate to the establishment of a forest inspection within the framework of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. The possibility of setting up services in the forest or on forest land is also said for the purpose of exploiting mineral raw materials and raising multi-annual plantations. In principle, it was noted that the new Law on Forests, as proposed by the promoters in the works, should lay down a simpler procedure for obtaining permits for the exploitation of mineral raw materials when exploiting Croatian forests for their own purposes. Only for the construction of forest roads and fire roads. It is pointed out that new laws and sublaws should prevent any abuse in the exploitation of mineral raw materials in forests and in forest land. The debate has doubtfully assessed the solutions of Article 4. The final draft law on the exploitation of mineral raw materials and the rise of multi-annual plantations through the right of service. In the light of the opinion put forward for the raising of multi-annual plantations, the exemption from forest land should be prescribed for the purpose of re-use of the land for agricultural purposes. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24248	Thank you very much. Reporters of the remaining committee. No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, Honored Representative Mato Štimac, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24249	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed amendments and additions to the Forest Act were designed to create legal assumptions for the establishment of forest inspection at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. Since the Law on the Construction and Fraction of the Central Authorities of the State Administration is prescribed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy to carry out inspection tasks relating to forestry. The proposed law provides for a form of inspection and inspection, which is in line with the current state of inspection of expected changes in the area of supervision and other laws. The proposed law amends the provisions of the Law on Forests which distinguish the jurisdiction of forestry, economic and mining inspections in accordance with the Law on State Inspectorate and the Mining Act. In accordance with Article 61 of Regulation (EU) No The forest law provides for the possibility of establishing services in the forest or on forest land for the purpose of exploiting mineral raw materials and raising multi-annual plantations. This supplement is addressed by any dispute over the interpretation of the disputed Article 61. The government of the Republic of Croatia has so far made several decades of decisions on service and the use of mineral raw materials and the rise of olive groves and vineyards. The proposed amendments also delete the provisions of the laws regulated by former public undertakings that have been transformed into the trading company of the Croatian Forests d.o.o. Parliamentary representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24250	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24251	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! This law contains really three important issues to which the amendment applies. The first issue is an important issue in Article 4 of the Law which amends the existing Article 61 which enables the establishment of services in forests and forest land for the purpose of the exploitation of mineral raw materials and we welcome that provision, this is a good provision. And why it's a good provision, I'll just give you a brief illustration. In fact, most quarrys in Croatia are located in the area of forest and forest land. Until the decision of the former Government of 2002, and so far these changes, the process of solving the concession to carry out means mining activities, the exploitation of mineral raw materials has been highly recommended in this part due to the fact that property-legal relations are not resolved. In order to obtain a mining concession, property-legal relations must be resolved. According to the Law on the Forests, that was the way of exorcism and that means it. And you know how long that trip lasted? Here comes Mr. Linic. It took nine years. And for nine years that trip lasted and that people couldn't solve it. And that's the worst question that could have happened. For example, we even had a case of a quarry, a pebble where it was owned by the Ministry of Justice or a Penalty in Turopoly that they couldn't solve property-legal relations either because these barriers were administrative and bureaucratic so that nothing could really be solved. And then that's where they tried to make that part. In particular, the situation was more than conflicting, comatose when it started with the construction of the highway. And then Mr. Linic, as Deputy Prime Minister, took these measures and the Commission for the Rapid Construction of the Motorway in a way that allowed one way to build highways in terms of supplying materials and everything else because the situation would have occurred, since the State Inspectorate had been legal by amending and supplementing the Law on Mining from 2001 and all others had been able to prevent illegal exploitation and, in fact, by establishing the fact that only four, five quarrys in Croatia had been legal and all others had worked some for 128 years. For example, Kamenolom Tounje and other quarrys but they couldn't solve these property-legal relations. But that's where the second block came in again. The second blockade took place in order to reach the service normally must be paid, and it must also be paid in respect of the service itself. Service was given for five years. On the other hand, according to the Regulation adopted for the implementation of this Forest Act, the compensation calculated by the Croatian Forests must be calculated. And now there's one thing that's impossible that's happened. So the exorcism fee was the same as for a five-year service. This is an interesting situation because according to this rule this part of growth, common useful functions and everything else was accounted for. For example, you had a situation for quarryes in the Velebit area and the region of Dalmatia to calculate that general useful function, growth and everything else and the Milky Ways cut down the entire forest long ago. And there was a variant that was smarter to the one who went out to rule and paid in the expropriation because it was the same amount as five years of establishing service. So then I said it's the same situation, so who's going to go to the variant when they have an apartment. Well, then you better rent it for five years, so you get the amount like you sold it, and then after five years, it's the same situation again. But it's been done a lot there. A special commission was established, but sadly, it did not get much further away from that part. Much did not get away from that part because a small number of services are based on the fact that bureaucracy is such a nature that it is constantly causing problems. And today, let's say, the same people who prepare for the Government's Property Management Committee are doing the work of Mrs. Katarina Chop, Mrs. Snježana Frgovic of the State's Attorney's Office. These are the same people who have complicated all of this and who today lead to this situation that these problems are not solved. And the government in this part must really take urgent measures to solve this problem because the State Inspectorate is doing its job. He has to act according to the law, close, but there's this variant that many people today can't or won't solve this issue unless it starts working in a way that I don't say it's not the government's fault, it's not the former or current property management commission, it's this part of the professional services that do it. It's a comatose situation. Those after a year, Mr. Linic knows, no service has been concluded, no service contract has been concluded. Therefore, there should be additional efforts to address the problem. And now that's happening one variant is obvious. The State Inspectorate, for example, for Bechtel, has taken over everything, it's an enormous acquired illegal property benefit, but it has to be made possible, there would be no highway. But nothing's been done yet. Bechtel leaves Croatia, the issue that he illegally exploited mineral raw materials has not been resolved. Maybe he won't leave if he gets this other stock, but that's where he needs to make the effort. Because now it comes to the fact that the state only treats our legal entities or our companies and foreigners are getting away with it. Therefore, this is a major problem and the state must act equally in all these situations. I agree, Mr Linic, and he knows it well, I agree to delete this provision in Article 45, it is a conflict between the Law on Mining and the Law on Forests where Croatian forests were entitled to their own needs and to sell mineral raw materials. And you know what was going on here? There was crime in crime, crime in crime. The first thing, meaning under the Mining Act and according to the Constitution, must have a mining concession to exploit mineral raw materials. Croatian forests didn't have that. And now, production, the cube of mineral raw materials that they worked did not work themselves Croatian forests but they took suppliers, they made contracts in such a way that the mining was 10 kuna more than the price of mining in Croatia which was made for the highway, that this part of the separation of mineral raw materials was also 10 kuna. In this way, crime in crime has been done in reality, and for this part we really support these provisions, it is the only way to prevent that part because that variant happened that Croatian forests instead of the forests that the state entrusted them with, they devastated them. That was a special question for the lady's woods and that part. And today I think that only three legal quarrys have Croatian forests and at least they can simply solve these issues. So in these two issues, we agree that the government really has to take haste measures, these people eliminate that prevents the resolution of these situations because I was at the closing of a 50 quarry. And the worst one is when you have Croatian defenders standing next to you in torn uniforms and you feel like we're taking away their bread. But that's the part that the state has to make its move in a way that would allow entrepreneurship. You have, Mrs. Maria Byte, and the cases that were trying to import, say, eruptian from Austria, were imported by Bechtel, from Austria and Slovenia and from all other countries. And this is the same other situation that we look like now, if we want to do this share to the end, we have to make it possible because it will be imported from Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are these attempts, and the state has to behave there. Now there's one thing we don't agree on. HSP counseling club. It's this part of the separation of forest inspection and state inspectorate in the ministry. I think it's a very bad, very bad move. That's a very bad move. It was cooked by the normal ministry, and the HSS used to cook there when we had our second session when the Ministry Construction Act was passed. That amendment was easily accepted and it was a huge mistake. It's a huge mistake. It goes according to the one "When you, sue, cadiya judges you." And that's the worst that could have happened. You need to leave the inspections outside, outside the ministries. Are those the ministries? The ministries have three basic functions, i.e. the central authorities of the state administration: the first is to monitor the situation in the area for which they are established. Second, he's running administrative surveillance. What ministry is our administrative oversight? I haven't seen that lately. What ministry does the Department of Administrative Control carry out? And then they're making regulations, and it's the inspection that needs to be the co-ordinator and the Ministry's work controller. And that's why this is a huge mistake to single out a forest inspection from the State Inspectorate and I don't know where it's going? And also when you entered that part, then you entered into other mistakes, which is that not exactly all the rights and obligations of the forest inspector are prescribed. You're missing a lot of parts because the State Inspectorate Act is prescribed, so what's the record, how it's made, can an objection be made to the record? He can't. When the solution goes, the appeal and all the other things, especially the part that isn't in this part, and that's subtracting, say, the subject,... or all others, or those to whom a sin has been committed, or what has been wrongly done, such as stealing, say, wood and stealing of mineral raw materials and all other things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I therefore propose to the Government that this section be reconsidered. I see that there is an announcement that it will go into a new state administration reform because this reform really needs to be implemented. To think seriously about the inspection services being out of the ministries. This is an example of Sweden, an example of all other countries, because what is happening to us now is that nothing can be done. Because the inspection services must be tied to the prime minister. The inspection services have to go with the prime minister. Because the prime minister will have timely information, real information, not minister's information, or, be careful not to say that he's doing bad work. What minister will say to himself in the report that he's working badly? But that's why the prime minister then has an independent inspection report and knows at all times what his condition is and can take appropriate measures. So we support these two things, but this third one doesn't lead to good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24252	Thank you very much. A few notices. The chairman of the Committee on State Budget and Finance, Šime Prtenjača, scheduled a meeting of the Committee at 13 o'clock in room 244, 2nd floor. Moreover today, when we look at all applications for certain topics of the agenda, we have the chance to complete this point, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on administrative fees in the field of intellectual property rights and possibly, possibly, the Proposal for a Law on Deposit Insurance. So today this would be what could be realistically achieved, amendments to the law on the lease of business space and the protection of patients' rights will not be discussed today in view of the number of reported and on time, and at 15 hours of voting on discussed agenda points and I remind all MPs and MPs to provide identification keys. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First, honourable representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24253	I'm correcting my colleague Kovacevic's incorrect allegations that Bechtel's company illegally exploited mineral raw materials. As mayor of the city of Ogulin, Bechtel was registered in the city of Ogulin and the largest quarry on the construction of the highway is in the area of the town of Ogulin, it is the Rusnica quarry, responsible for saying that Bechtel had permission to exploit mineral raw materials. On the side, on whether she should have given it. That she was paying for the exploitation of mineral raw materials and that when she left, she was resuscitating the quarry. In fact, he was rehabilitated by the Croatian forests, and Becthel paid for it. They unexploited mineral raw materials to build highways by some of our ministers and some of our corporate directors under the cover of a loan that has not been returned today, and borrowing is something that should have been returned to the place where it was borrowed, mineral raw materials. That's true. That's what we'll say at the press conference. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24254	Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24255	Thank you very much. I would correct Mr. Honorable Representative Kovacevic's incorrect allegations that the foresters were most devastated by the forest. In the interest of the forest profession, I must stress that from a good experience believe your colleague that we can be proud of our foresters who preserved our Croatian forests and in many meetings with many European colleagues have definitely acknowledged it. The forests in Croatia are the most preserved and certainly cannot say that our foresters destroyed them and devastated them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24256	The correction of the esteemed representative, Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24257	Mr. President, dear colleague Kovacevic has said a whole series of incorrect allegations. I'd fix this opportunity just one for the sake of time. The Croatian Peasant Party did not bestow on anyone in this House when a law was passed but if it voted in favour of the bill that the forest inspection is within the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the interest of the forest profession, and I understand the gentleman, it is a correction of the incorrect allegations. And I understand Mr Kovacevic's protection of the inspection since he worked there all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24258	And respected representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would correct Mr Kovacevic's incorrect allegations that this bill did not resolve how the inspector should act and how the minutes, solution, complaints and so on should be written. I would like to warn Mr Kovacevic that the conduct of the inspector, the composition of the minutes, the way of making a solution to the appeal, the conclusion and so on, is settled in the General Administrative Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24260	Thank you. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Mr. Josip Bartolcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I have to look back on this Mr. Kovacevic exhibit. In fact, here are several claims that absolutely do not stand, and one is certainly that, that the foresters have devastated the forest. That this is definitely an incorrect data story and recognition that we received, or certificate from Croatian forests, from international institutions for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. So not for any constituency. It's one thing, but I think she's less important right now. It is much more important than that it was mentioned here in the exploitation of mineral raw materials that Croatian forests were the source of crime in terms of the exploitation of these same mineral raw materials. That's absolutely not true because if it were true then the state authorities would probably have done something about it by now and someone would be responsible for it. I will remind you all together that Croatia's forests, today's trade society, until 2002, functioned as a public enterprise under the Law on Forests in which, among other things, it was defused that they were slow forest products. And also that the Croatian forests at that time and the secondary forest products, among other things, were generally used to build a fire average, for the restoration of unsettled roads that were eventually destroyed in the exhibition of raw materials from the Croatian forests in the local community because we could otherwise not participate in the recovery of existing damages. And that it was absolutely the greatest benefit of these local communities where Croatian forests exploited their natural resources, or national natural resources. Unlike all other mineral raw materials users who used minereal raw materials exclusively for their own account. Whoever benefited from this will best know for themselves, i.e. today there is also how well available data that spoke about how many unsolved cases there are of mineral raw materials use where users have not even paid kuna fees not only for raw materials but also a series of exemptions for not telling, and you yourself have mentioned that there are no contracts concluded for that exemption. So it simply does not stand for Croatia's forests and beyond, and this new law will try absolutely to regulate it in a different way, they must have the possibility that, with their regular activity, they can use a certain part of mineral raw materials exclusively for their own needs to be in service and local communities, as well as building fire averages. Because we know that Croatia's forests, directly 30 million kunas per year, stand out only for fire protection. And through the construction of fire averages, that amount is far greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24262	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24263	Mr. Secretary of State obviously doesn't know the area he's responsible for. The first correction of an incorrect assumption that it is not a devastated area of forest and forest land. You have two tapes at the State Inspectorate, so you'll be fraternizing yourself when you see from the air the footage of the forest, one time a quarry. Irregular. And for this second part. I'm asking you to take a look at those two tapes. Part two for this part of crime inside crime. Take cases of Gospić Forest where you will see what kind of crime it was and Mr. Linic, you have it in the State Inspectorate. Don't say that when you don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24264	The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24265	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, Okay, come on, we heard just before the essence of this law is the formation and inspection of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and all the other provisions up to, I'll call them those criminal provisions, they're kind of logical. But when we come to these criminal provisions, that logic ceases. Not only with the proposings of this legislative proposal, but with all legislative proposals. It is as if these people are handled by the logic that we live in another world, and the best example was that famous Law on Road Safety where penalties are incomparably greater in Croatia than in Germany. But let's let it go now, we'll probably change that soon. And why is that, on another occasion? But to return to this law. It's not a questionable forest are national wealth. They should be made clear to be cared for, cared for under quotes, but did someone ask themselves how our people live? Now let's take this article in the '86s, and then here it's said, if it commits or allows for deforestation or a clean cut of the woods, then it lists everything further and further, it fits that way. Well, God forbid someone else has cattle in our woods because they certainly wouldn't be in such a derelict state. However, I have mostly appeared because of this paragraph 4 where it is said, if it collects forest fruits and other secondary forest productions, and so on and so forth, we come up with that question, gentlemen, the truffle. That's the only job my Buzet deals with is at least 1,000 to 1500 people. In Istria, nearly 3,000 people, I agree absolutely well with the regulation but not with such fines up to 10 thousand kunas as proposed in this legislative proposal. That's all I've come to say is that someone would not start charging these people for such fines. And those who think anyone can find, or I don't know, someone says to catch a truffle, they're wrong. As he's also mistaken, I don't know how to live politely, regardless of their price of 20 to 30 thousand kuna. And to end what else to say here. Article 13(3), unless measures are taken to protect the forest from fires and other natural disasters of plant diseases or pests, the natural person will again be punished by fines of 500 to 5000 kuna. I assure you, gentlemen, that the bars in Istria where there are these private forests are no one's dealing with this now let's not go from one time to the people with such punishments. What else to say. Let's not privatise the woods, not even for the purpose of the alleged repayment of debt pensioners. It should be done by some other way, for example. Because yet this company, except for that developmental company, has that court social dimension, and I think it would be a disaster if these values were privatized tomorrow. The exploitation of forests for the purpose of extracting stones that some before me, i.e. other mineral raw materials, are also to be taken into account. However, we should also take care of our space. And most of all, that's important because of the environment. But again, every intervention in the space must not be blocked because of the environment. Croatia must develop not at the expense of space, but neither must space be an obstacle to the development of the Republic of Croatia and so much of this provision on service, concessions and so on should be incorporated into this legislative proposal. People who engage in these entrepreneurial activities should also be able to design them relatively quickly. Because otherwise, the development of the Republic of Croatia will also be blocked. It is impossible if it is true what Mr Kovacevic was talking about that we are a stone or I don't know what we have imported from Austria into the Republic of Croatia. If that's true, then you really need to ask yourself who's crazy in this country. By 93, if I cheat on haystacks for farmland, I'm sure, and the woods were owned or used by local self-government. After 93, under quotes, they're under government. We have, I don't know, I'll just mention one example and that'll end it. In Istria, the situation to say, because of 750 square meters of forest land, the city of Poreč cannot attend the home of pensioners. I am indeed asking the Ministry of Forestry, local administrations of self-government, to allow these people to do so and not to block one such social useful activity. Like the expansion of the retirement home. This is inadmissible and I ask you, State Secretary, indeed, to try to intervene with your authority to allow the city of Poreč to continue building this retirement home as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24266	Thank you. SDP club respected representative Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24267	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. My colleagues and fellow MPs. In order to say the urgency of this matter, the SDP Club will support the adoption of this Act, but at the beginning we warn that a new, more responsible approach to the whole problem is needed, especially in the context of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. Namely, why is that and why are we warning it? According to what I could find in the documents, the regulations of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia is exploiting raw materials without the Croatian Parliament having adopted a mandatory plan for the use of these raw materials. Such a situation is not sustainable for several reasons. I'll try to tell you in short lines why. At the same time, we believe that the coordination of the organisation of state inspectorates is in the spirit of what exists. The question is, is that good, that's another pair of shoes. Let's take it in a row. Under the current Law on forests, forests and forest land, it is good for the general interest which enjoys special protection and is used under special conditions and in the manner prescribed by the law. Forests and forest land is a specific natural wealth and has expected functions and represents special natural and economic conditions for the Republic of Croatia. The forest law determines that forest management and forest land is an activity of particular social interest. If this is added, and this is resolved in part by the Mining Act, ore treasure is also of special interest to the Republic of Croatia, but is not of general interest. According to the Regulation on the collection of pdoatakas, the method of recording and determining the reserves of mineral raw materials, and the iradation of the balance sheet of those reserves, the Republic of Croatia should have an annual balance sheet of those reserves. They are being developed by the end of June of the current year for the past year. Of course, the data from the balance sheets, according to the Regulation, would be a business secret for individual digs, but of course they're not a secret for general noodles. Without such established balance sheets and without an annual and medium-term plan to determine the Croatian Parliament, it is required by law and by the rules which determine these treasures of special social interest, of special state interest, of this proposed amendment and supplemental provision in the essence of discretionary first decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to whom and where it will grant concessions for mining of mines, raw materials. The Act on the Protection of Nature, Article 3(1), point 4 requires, to ensure the sustainable use of natural resources to the welfare of present and future generations without significant damage to parts of nature. It is necessary to prevent harmful procedures of people and disturbances in nature as a consequence of technological development and watch now, and perform activities. If we observe things through valid regulations, then the question is really why is the urgency of the adoption of this law on the agenda. Given our assignment here, I must warn then that it might be a reason because they are, because they are the local elections. Local elections are being accepted, and it should be known that if the government can decide discreetly, and according to the current decision on the compensation of 2.5% of the income, the income is the unit of local self-government. And, behold, we appreciate that the income of local self-government units is what we have declared to be of general and special interest to the Republic of Croatia. It doesn't make sense, not in laws, not in the protection and management of natural resources. That's why our commitment is not to block development, to enable at least some control, we all agreed that there is no proper control and we all agree that there are excavators and exploitation centres that don't even have any permits, or even control as much as they dig up. That is why we believe that at least in this part we will make the Government of Croatia responsible for the adoption of a new regulation, a new law that will, in a whole way, protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia in a more lasting and better way, as appropriate to the needs of the Republic of Croatia and its entry into the European Union. We think that we should reach a conclusion and oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to pass a whole new law by half next year, rules on the exploitation of mine and mineral goods, especially on the protection of forests, because forests are not only of interest to this generation but also to future generations and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In that context, I think it would be a good idea to put this warning as a conclusion of the Parliament and the government's obligation to make regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24268	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24269	Dear colleague Leko said that there are no balances on the reserve for mineral raw materials. Namely, any approval for the exploitation field exists, because it could not be obtained, an exploitation field cannot be obtained without establishing the reserve, but it can be agreed that at the state level it is not all summed up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24270	HNS PGS, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24271	Dear Mr. President, respected ministry gentlemen, this amendment to the law should only be in the function of regulating the return of forest inspection to a resolute ministry for what the profession has been up to for many years. In fact, it should not be put in the State Inspectorate either, as its tasks are defined by the Forests Act and are in the function of its implementation. That's where my colleague Kovacevic and I would disagree. The forest inspection not only plays a role in monitoring the implementation, but is an active participant in the process of adopting forest-economic bases, as well as in controlling its implementation. These amendments also need to correct the gaps made in the adoption of changes to the forest laws since 2002 when the Public Enterprise of the Croatian Forests has been transformed into the Trade Society of the Croatian Forests by special responsibility. At that time, certain specifics that still regulate the function of the board of directors in public enterprises remain in the law and are not corrected. This Regulation shall enter into The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is clearly stated that the sea, seashore and islands, water, airspace, mineral treasure and other natural resources, as well as land, forests, plant and animal life, other parts of nature, real estate and things of particular cultural, historical, economic and ecological importance for which the law makes them of interest to the Republic of Croatia and has its special protection. The law lays down the way in which goods of interest to the Republic of Croatia can be used and exploited by the rightholders and owners, and the compensation for the restrictions they are subject to. We need to ask ourselves whether the Amendment Act and the Supplements of the Law on Forests, with the Final Proposal of the Law, leads to care and provides them with the protection that belongs to them under the Constitution. It is problematic now to introduce, in addition to the above-mentioned changes, the institute of the rights of service for the exploitation of mineral raw materials and the rise of multi-annual plantations on the surfaces of forests and forest land. The introduction of the right of service for this purpose is inadmissible. For those purposes, there is a regular process of detachment and re-use of forests and forest land. It is clear that this is the way to shorten the procedure, to authorise the ministry to make decisions on the establishment of the right of service at its own discretion and without public competitions, and to greatly reduce the compensation for the availability of national wealth. The methodology and method of calculating the compensation for limited rights in forests and forest land are also in full responsibility of the ministry. We wonder if this is the right path to empower the ministry, so the minister has the national wealth that has special protection guaranteed in the Constitution. In the event of the establishment of the right of service in the forest or on forest land, the construction of waterways, sewerage, gas pipelines, electricity lines, that is, in the process of the prescribed law, the compensation shall be determined in the amount for which the established services reduces the value of forest or forest land and reduced wood mass production. The proposal to amend the article, the article further states, but what is important is the proposal to amend Article 4 behind the word "electrical lines" and to add the words "exploitation of mineral raw materials, raising of multi-annual plantations". Therefore, we propose that Article 4. The amendment and addition of the Law on Forests has been deleted and we have given such an amendment as the Club of the NNS PGS, with our acceptance of these amendments and additions to the law in that sense. So if the amendment is accepted we will accept the law, and if not, we will not accept it. Therefore, it is proposed to establish the right of service in the forest and forest land for the exploitation and use of mineral raw materials and the raising of years-old plantations, which is a newspaper in relation to the provisions of the Forest Act, which should, in fact, initiate a process for the deforestation of forests or forest land from the forest-economic area, i.e. to implement the procedure prescribed in Article 15. Forest law. Therefore, if those areas were to be refurbished, funds should be provided for the purchase of new surfaces and the rise of new forests. Non-decrease of forest and forest land is a fundamental element of sustainable forest development. In particular, it is questionable to grant concessions to private concessionaries when the general position of the European Union is to increase the area of the national forests, because they are thus the most protected. The establishment of the right of service for new purposes in a specific case for the use of mineral raw materials and the raising of years of plantation is contrary to the provisions of the Property Act and other real rights, "National Journal" 91/96. Both by intensities or by the purpose of the right of actual service that it implies, careful treatment in the exercise of power by the authorisation officer of the right of service, that is, such an act that will burden the service thing as little as possible. The exploitation of mineral raw materials, primarily quarrys, but there are also gravel and other minerals and by raising years of forest and forest land, the current purpose of the forest is completely changed. In the case of quarrys so far, forest and forest land has become infertile land, which can no longer be detained for its purpose, and in the case of the rise of many years, it becomes agricultural land. The right of service is based only when the subject of service does not lose its characteristics permanently. It's also the definition of the very concept of service. This is, however, a permanent and irrevocable loss of forest. Service is really the first to have a time limit, and most importantly, it must preserve the essence of good. This comes from the very definition of service. It's just that there's a limited service cut, okay? The forest law and their implementation will cause a reduction in the noise of the Republic of Croatia, which is contrary to the international agreements signed by the Republic of Croatia, which are clearly opposed to the reduction of forest areas in the countries which have signed these protocols. We can remind ourselves that it's a Hellsinian, Strasbourg, rio de Janeir, and also a Kyoto protocol. If we do not wish to reduce Croatia's noise to what we have committed under the Constitution of Article 52 and by signing international protocols, then the detachment and re-intention must provide funds for the purchase of land and the raising of new forests. The establishment of the right of service to raise several years of forest and forest land plantations is unwarranted because it stands in Dalmatia alone over 270 thousand hectares of abandoned agricultural land in the coastal and island areas. I cannot believe that thousands of hectares could not be found for future quality olive groves and vineyards, since it was once the best quality country for agricultural processing. From these derelict surfaces, the majority of the fires originate, so it's inadmissible that this potential stands untapped. Justification of the inability to put him into office because of outstanding property-legal relations is not acceptable. This land should be made for years of use by those who wish to cultivate precisely through the right of service without investing in ownership. That should be regulated by a special law. Only if these potentials were used would it make sense to discuss the need to repurpose forests and forest land into agricultural cultures. That the thinking and unwary statements of responsible individuals, so that, for the purpose of raising several years, firewood surfaces could be served, in 2003, after their release to the public, had resulted, or it was quite an accident, of 18 night-planned fires in the Skradin area. When it comes to the exploitation of mineral raw materials, that it is a permanent loss of forest and forest land should not be particularly argued and therefore, in the event of justified needs, it is realised through the separation and re-use procedure. It is true that the government has already made several decisions on the establishment of the right of service to raise years-old losses, but without carrying out a public tender under the discretionary right of interested individuals. It would be interesting to meet us by which procedure and by which criteria they were adopted. This concern and volunteerism in the implementation of the Law on Forests and its amendments and additions explain the urgency of the procedure for the need to distinguish the jurisdiction of inspections but all according to the obligations laid down in the Law on State Inspectorate and the Law on Mining, with the establishment of a service for the exploitation of mineral raw materials and the rise of many years we will cause an uncontrollable reduction of the noise of the Republic of Croatia, which will result in the absence of general useful functions that give rise to forests, which are more valuable than the wood mass itself. Forests today mean more and more as bio-ecological capital, which, by its value, in nature protection and in the potential for tourism development, exceeds all the value of artificial plantations. And finally, while the European Union plans to forestise 20% of the surplus agricultural land, we are savagely eroding those forests. The Croatian People's Party and the PGS Club will accept the law only if the amendment we have proposed to repeal Article 4, and more than anything else, we advocate the adoption of a new Law on Forests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24272	Thank you very much. Replica, a respected representative of Bozidar Pankretic. Oh, yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24273	Correction, I'm...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24274	You've lifted my tail.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24275	I raised the correction later, but you didn't look at me because I realized I was wrong for the first time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24276	Yeah, yeah, good, good.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24277	Yeah, I'm right. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, an esteemed colleague said that the unwarranted giving of forest land is for agricultural purposes. I don't think a principle grade like that stands for sure. I agree in part that surely there is in Dalmatia unprocessed agricultural land, but that land that is...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24278	A colleague, Pankretic, is not a correction to an incorrect quote, it is a correction to the position of justification or inexcusability. It's not a matter of accuracy or inaccuracy, it's an opportunity thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24279	So the real replica was that, it's not justified. Then thank you very much. I'll be in my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24280	That's right. HSS representative club, respected representative Zeljko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24281	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a few words to look back on the club's name on the bill, and here's the only forest engineer in this sitting house. Well, first of all, I'd like to say a few words about the importance of today's forest in the Republic of Croatia. Two-and-a-half million acres of forest that have the only forest in Europe, internationally recognises the ecological EFC certificate, the standard, speaks a lot. It is recognised today by Europe and the world and many today come to learn from our foresters how to preserve and maintain forests in these areas when especially Western Europe is faced with the disappearance of forests, with the reduction of areas, and our forests are now preserved and generations of forests over 200 years of years of tradition. The forest science in the Republic of Croatia is known for it. As a result, any law-making and amending of the law is certainly subject to the great passover of the forest and the proposal is also subject to the amendment and addition of this law, the Croatian Forest Society as our headquarters association has manifested itself about it. But let me say a few words about exactly what we at the HSS Club mean about the proposals of this law, amendments and additions to the law and its urgency. Since in one part of the forest profession, it has always supported that forest inspection be found in the resolute ministry and thus the resolute ministry will be able to control its actions, since it is almost close to 40, about 40 and some percent of the area of the Republic of Croatia that must thus be controlled. I think the Resort Ministry must have that possibility through its inspection. The second part relating to the amendments to certain articles is that it will stop one possibility of being implemented in the extent to which it has been so far, which is the construction of forest roads. In the last eight years, Croatian forests have built over 3,000km of forest roads. The openness of the forest has increased to nearly 9km to a thousand hectares, and this openness is still low compared to Europe, which is already about 40km per thousand hectares. In this way, the possibility disappears to continue the construction of forest roads in the future, especially here, that we are on the coast of the past time, the Croatian forests have built on Peljesac over 120 kilometers, Hvar more than 100km of roads, on a whole series of islands, practically on all islands where there are state forests one large amount of forest roads which are not only forest roads, they connect certain parts of the island, for example. to Hvar where they serve and for the wider community especially for that part of the people. Well, there's a rumor that no one's ever made so many roads in the island area before it was built for that time. With this I would say lobbying, that it is easy to throw out the use of stone and gravel and sand in such a way that the forest will be left without the possibility that, especially on those parts of the coast and on the rest of the Republic of Croatia, 300-400km will no longer be built, but perhaps 30 for the needs of the continent and thus simply that openness of the forest will decrease, and we know how much it means for the development, especially rural development on that part. So on behalf of the HSS Club, we think that we need certain articles here to change, and in that sense we're going to submit the amendment. Furthermore, when we talk about the article, former Article 61, which is now proposed to change, where we add the possibility of service to the exploitation of mineral raw materials, I would point out that what Mr Kovacevic said had a lot of quarryes in the Republic of Croatia that had no documentation, and also Croatian forests did not have all the quarryes documentation, but they have recently taken a number of jobs in recent years to legalise these quarryes. There are all within the Croatian forests two legal quarrys that have everything, all the documentation. Why hasn't it been done before? Because the Mining Act only changed a few years ago, and only after that is the need to do so and in that part can I say, although I am now a clear employee of the Croatian Forests, I can say that the Croatian forests in that part are taking great steps to carry out all necessary permits under the Mining Act and that they have certain consents that are necessary for this. On the other hand, there are also a whole series of private companies that also operate without the necessary permits. I can understand lobbying, construction needs and everything else, but I can't accept that the hack worked only on Croatian forests because they were some kind of competition with these construction lobbys and it turns out that only by that should there be a possibility of some private companies and exploiting mineral raw materials, and the Croatian forests were not exploited for anyone but for the needs of their own, but also for the wider communities, and there are a lot of mayors and mayors who know that in cooperation with the foresters they could always do certain jobs for the purpose of opening and certain parts of the cities and municipalities that were on their way to a certain forest. As a result, the service that is now being introduced to exploit these raw materials, we believe, will not be fair. For what? First of all, the service fee is extremely small, it's extremely small. It ends now in the state budget and no longer under the Law on Forests for the purchase of new forest land and will be justified by the anxiety of counterpart Alenka who said that this reduces the noise of our country. When we add that by building a road from Zagreb to Split, close to 16 thousand hectares of forest have disappeared, and that no one else has been obliged to pay any compensation to be restored elsewhere or to buy a part of the forest, Croatia has lost its surfaces irrevocably and really foresters are wondering when they will ask when they will go, when we will reduce those areas, and Europe is investing significant funds, there is a fund in the European Union that raises the rise of young forests. Here I can give an example of the Republic of Ireland, which from 2% of its surface has already reached 9% by noise. These funds, I hope, will have opportunities for us in Croatia soon. And now if that service opens up to the exploitation of mineral raw materials, which is still happening. A private company that gets service at the quarry today, if it goes bankrupt, no one guarantees who will make the recovery of that surface. We will return that area to the state-owned forest company, the Croatian forests that will have to resuscitate it, and then after how many years someone from the inspectorate will call us why some forests are open? And there have been cases like this before where many companies that have had quarryes have gone bankrupt. And who's left to resuscitate those? A state-owned company that's bound to take care of it all. For this reason, I find it not justified to do service, let normal expropriation be as it has been until now, let him who takes the quarry pay. Because that's where a solid and big profit comes in. Why is there a big rush on all this now? It's just that some other income is coming true on that. As for the service to raise years-old pests, at the HSS Club, we find that justified, although my foresters will call me for it. Because raising the multi-annual plantations on the surfaces of the floor, I would like to point out in particular, there is this control, not on request, but to adopt a certain regulation in which it will be able to do so. It allows us to expand olive groves and vineyards by the time we enter the European Union, because we will no longer have the opportunity. Although it is, I say, and that part of the service happens at a minimum price. Here's an example of Badell, which is 100 acres of vineyards, the service has paid 21 thousand kuna. Therefore, it is one minimum fee, and practically forestry will remain permanently without 100 hectares of surface. As a result, this adoption of the Act by emergency procedure is always problematic. Therefore, we expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to finally propose a long-awaited new law which, as far as I have information, is in the final design and I hope that we will soon have it here on the benches where we will then be able to comprehensively address all these topics. And with these suggestions, I hope that I have helped in thinking, and I would expect the secretary of state until the very vote on this item may and with some amendment on behalf of the Government to deliver so that we can adequately continue our work especially with regard to Croatia's forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24282	Please correct the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24283	The esteemed colleague Ledinski stated the code, as if the State Inspectorate had just ordered the Croatian forests to execute the rehabilitation of the illegal quarry. This is the result of the government's conclusion of 20 June 2002 and the established factual situation. It is spoken of by over 150 illegal quarrys in the area of which the lords of the Croatian forest ruled. So it's not true what he said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24284	Thank you. State Secretary, Josip Bartolcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24285	Let me say a few more words of clarification in terms of these exposures. In fact, it is quite true what my colleague Ledinski pointed out in the introduction in terms of areas under the woods, in terms of the protection of forests and all that foresters have done in the past and throughout history to preserve this natural wealth. But here it is also necessary to say that it is the only renewable natural wealth and that the areas under the forest do not shrink. And that it is quite certain will show the upcoming national inventory of the forest in Croatia which is also in construction and will certainly prove that the areas are under the forests and much greater than 43% of how officially the noise of the Republic of Croatia is today. So with such data, it is difficult for any country in the environment to compare, especially with the fact that these are natural forests. Well, neither the mentioned Ireland nor the mentioned Sweden and Finland are certainly partners in this, although we do not deny the right for those with their forests to master quality as well. Perhaps we should further explain something about these privileges, or services. It is truly surprising that today after 2 years of the former government's decision on service under its own regulation, comment on why service and what it wants to achieve. But I'm sure it's one thing. That this government has, unlike the formerly adopted the procedure under which the service is established and the procedure has been publicly announced to all counties and whoever is interested in establishing the service can contact the State Office in the county and obtain information on the manner and procedures to be satisfied in order to ensure that the actual services can be initiated, which is necessary to collect and which institutions are competent to make the decision. But it is certainly not the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry but rather the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the procedure is very clear and precisely because we wanted to avoid possible speculation and possible ambiguity about the distribution of the forest land in question, we did this procedure and today it is available to everyone and everyone interested in this procedure can report for the institute of establishment of services. I will only say that in the coming time, in the part that I have already mentioned, there was indeed a lot of quarrys that were both illegal and used by Croatian forests, but also other users who were not recorded, and it is well known that these are private entrepreneurs because today they are called today. And that the resolution bill for these same quarryes must be paid for by the Croatian forests today. So much for the State Inspectorate and his concern for the restoration of the quarry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24286	Thank you. I am reporting that 10.41 has expired time to apply for a 10-minute debate on this agenda point. Club LIBRE, Honorable Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24287	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. Here, let me include myself on behalf of the Club of Libre, therefore, this proposed final proposal for a forest law. The Club LIBRE will not support this Law for 3 basic reasons, and the most basic one is, therefore, that in our opinion its application would be contrary to the intensity of the Basic Forest Act, which is the protection and preservation of our forests. ie, one of Croatia's most valuable natural treasures. It might be good to state the fact, therefore, that there are nearly 2 million hectares in Croatia, therefore, which are under the forest, of which a million and a half hectares of state-owned property are talking about the fact that it was about exceptional potentials that can be used in a very useful way. However, in the assessment of the situation, the most important issue is the establishment of inspections and inspection controls. And to make those important changes, the changes that we think are harmful to the preservation of our forests remain in the shadows. Probably wanting to push them through the little door. We are primarily referring to the proposed amendments to Articles 18 to 26, 44, 45 and 61. What we have, therefore, is the most serious observation, as some of the clubs have said so far, that is to say, in Article 44, which is proposed to amend Article 61. In order to exploit and use mineral raw materials and to build multi-annual plantations, it is proposed to establish the right, i.e. the institute of services in both forest and forest land, which is a newspaper in relation to the provisions of the Forest Act so far, under which the process of demarcation of forests or forest land and forest economic areas should be initiated and the procedure laid down in Article 15 shall be carried out. Forest law. Club LIBRE opposes this proposal, and accepts the argument of the Croatian Forest Society which also opposes the possibility of establishing services in the forest, for the purpose of exposition of mineral raw materials and the rise of multi-annual plantations. Fearing, and on the theme of past experiences that have been talked about and in this debate today, knowing how nature works in order to turn everything into an uncontrollable exploitation in which the surfaces under the forests would be less and less every year. A little bit here to remind or present information about the extraction of other ores and stones according to statistical data if we have an index of 6.5% since the 91st year of extraction of other ores and stones in 2000 was 100 and 13.3%, so it came almost into doubles. It should not be noted, therefore, that the official data are at issue here and we know that the gray market in this particular segment has been quite developed, so some estimates speak or have said that over the past years, that on that gray market, such mineral raw materials have been turned somewhere up to 5 billion kuna a year. These are large funds, and therefore our position is concrete, that we need to tighten the controls, that we need to apply the law and not allow the possibility to expand in some other way the possibility of the exploitation of mineral raw materials. Here let me just point out or repeat one of the arguments put forward by the Croatian Forest Society which speaks precisely about the fact that the explosion of mineral raw materials is primarily in quarryes and the rise of many years of plantations in the forest and forest land is completely changing the purpose of the forest so far. In the case of quarrys, former properties, forests and forest land, it becomes infertile land that can no longer be brought into service, and in the case of the rise of several years of plantation, olive groves, vineyards, plums, etc., it becomes agricultural land. In this case, the general useful functions given by the forest are gone which are significantly more valuable than the wood mass. So that's what this article is about. We also disagree that there is a change in Articles 44 and 45. Therefore, it is impossible for a forest-based company, i.e. the legal person who manages the forest, to provide for its needs as well as for the needs of citizens, with the compensation of the collection of forest fruits and other secondary forest products, the exploitation of humus, so far it has been possible to use a cross-section, gravel and stone, as Article 44 is. The 45th deletes the possibility of exploiting sand, gravel and stone, so the question arises how will Croatian forests further build what they need, and these are access roads, especially roads that serve to defend against fires, accessible, also fire roads. We have heard today that many miles of such roads have been built over the past few years, some 3,000 kuna, and the question is, what will be next. Namely, if such a proposal is accepted, the Croatian Forests, or the forest company would have to pay for that gravel, it would have to pay for its stone and everything needed for such routes, and such material would need a lot. Some estimates suggest that, for example, new roads according to the Croatian Forests plan in one year took about 500 thousand cubic metres of such material, and for the restoration of such roads that have been made these years, it is about a million cubic metres of material. And then what happens? It will happen that Croatian forests will have to pay for this stone, and to whom, private concessionaries, who will come into the concession and service of these quarryes who were in it, who are actually going to be on hand. The third reason why we do not accept this Act is to erase the possibility that the Parliament decides on status matters in the Croatian forests, I do not think that this is good given the value of the Croatian forests and that the Croatian Constitution contains the obligation to keep and manage these Croatian forests, we believe that this provision must remain in this Law especially in the light of the announcement of future and possible privatisation. For these reasons, the Club of Libre will not support this Law. We think that it will increase the pressure on the forests, weaken the protection of these forests and warn for example that there is one list, a red list of plant and animal species of the Republic of Croatia that tell us that there are 226 plants and 41 animals, of which are extinct, missing 2 plants and 5 animals and others are seriously threatened by this Law, I think unfortunately that this pressure will increase and that the figures of these statistics will be growing from year to year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24288	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24289	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here, as has already been said on behalf of the SDP Club, I personally support this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests. In particular, the provision of Article 4 is important to us, and it is personally on the trail of what the government is in short supply, i.e. the concreteisation of such a regulation already acted on its own decisions. In fact, everyone here has already pointed out that one in Croatia is a difficult irregular state of exploitation of mineral raw materials, ore treasure, not since yesterday, it may have occurred already then. By criminal mini-reform when the Penal Code disappeared as a criminal offence against the exploitation of mineral raw materials. So it's already somehow paved the way for an illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials. On the other hand, however, it should be said that Croatia, our economy, needs mineral raw materials. We need to exploit what we ourselves have, especially in the accelerated or any or slow construction of highways and generally roads. And all those who deal with this activity or who want to deal with it in a legal, legal way are simply numerous, mechanisms that have often been contrary to each other and regulations, have made it impossible for people who wanted to legally, legally, to do business. Of which, above all, the country itself benefits from multiple benefits, and so do those people who see their personal breakthroughs, or see their activity. Therefore, there are no legal and yet least real obstacles to the regulation of Article 61, as provided for in Article 4, amendments to that existing article so as to add the words "mineral exploitation" behind the word "electric waters. The question has been raised here, in general, by the legal possibility, that is to say, of establishing a service. And here the truth was spoken, but only of real service. Here, when the possibility of establishing a service was denied, it spoke of real service as an option, i.e. the authority of one master of the privilege of serving another property for the benefit of his own property, and that this owner of this obedient good is obliged to suffer. And that's not at all controversial. However, all those who talked about it have added that starting with the OGZ that starting with our old Law on Fundamental Property Legal Relations, and then also the newest law that has been thanking God for a whole long time, means that it is good, relatively good, it may possibly suffer some changes, but in some other things, not here, the Law on Property and other real rights that speak of personal service, which means that it is right here, that it opens up the possibility of precisely achieving, that is, the application of such an institute of personal service that we have three, and it is obvious that the proposer is thinking and seems quite right to me on the "sus fractus" on the right of fruit, i.e. to allow another person or concessionary to be used with that good, but not in violation of his judiciary, i.e. bit, and we also need to know that a number of mineral extractions are not done in a way that is even worse growing and what is growing on that property destroys, but when it is necessary and important, therefore, that eventually and some vegetation is destroyed, that it is... things on that property and that it is also a duty that will be special and.. Probably and then to make sure that he is obliged after the time has elapsed, the concession expires, that is to say, to enjoy and return the property to a provobital state. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's about... things and this is one of the ways where the new government is really on the track that the former coalition government has been doing right, which has just wanted to introduce order in particular in the export of mineral raw materials, and something we need and we don't need to give up on, I think it's a good solution to just supplement the provisions of the existing law and in this way try to introduce a single order. I think it's good for everyone, it's good for those of you who are going to be involved in this activity, but above all, it's good for the state itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24290	Thank you. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24291	Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The forest law is one of the very important, very important laws that in the past 14 years de facto has not experienced significant changes, it's one of those laws that we inherited, or which we've copied from the former system. Such a conservative, I would say access to Croatian forests I welcome, since he already has one tradition in terms of management. But on the other hand, we live in space and time, the time of major changes, and I think that according to the new circumstances and the economic development of environmental consciousness, and in general when it comes to the relationship of man to nature and science in this area in order to make it necessary and unnecessarily necessary, to make a new law. When it comes to the importance of the Croatian forests, I must say that it is known to all of us that they affect the climate, fertility of the soil, the fertility of the soil, that those on the other side are the edicator of pollution and in some ways warn us of human intervention in nature. Therefore, looking at this side of the forest, we must safeguard them, and commercialise them, on the other hand, that is, they should be in the function of developing the economy, and it is our obligation as a representative that through the Government and the competent ministries they be in the service of citizens. I will only mention that the new branches in Dalmatia when it comes to tourism that it is already slowly shy, but slowly at a small door it speaks of hunting tourism, and that segment should also be treated in a new law in one way which would mean a new step in terms of management and management of Croatian forests. When it comes to inspection surveillance, I absolutely support everything the applicant has suggested, and I believe that there is, that there is not only a priority of sanctions, or preservation, sanctioning offenders, but firstly preserving natural wealth. Regarding Article 4, when it comes to the right of service, allow me just a few words. I believe that this proposal in Article 4 of the Law amending the Law on Forests should be supported, but I consider it as a transitional period, as a transitional period in terms of the expectation of a new law, and that in this time it will still be one incentive, one possibility for multi-annual plantations especially in Dalmatia. Because when it comes to Dalmatia, then we can't really talk about forests in a type of forest like Gorski Kotar and Slavonia. On the other hand, I think that the observations and observations of the HNS Club PGS are not sustainable and it is impossible simply that the land, agricultural land that is abandoned to put it into operation, it has been trying to do it for 10, 12 years, it has been doing it until 2000, so from 2000 until this year and the present government, however, these things are not quite as simple as that, because the land, the agricultural land that is not being processed, it has its own owners and, if we look at the Constitution, we are then starting from the Constitution and then we are asking possible State intervention in that area to give to a person who is not the owner, who is interested in processing. I must say that the current forest law also represents a brake in economic development. In particular, I can say that for the region of Dalmatia, so I will say that it is imposed not only is it necessary, but it is necessary to react very quickly, to adopt a new law in terms of economic development when it comes to working areas. A colleague, Rebić, last time there was a report from the state's attorney's office, spoke and spoke... because the municipality of Croatia, the town of Vrlika and some other units in the region of Dalmatia had to do with the transfer of forest land to units of local self-government, and in order to revive and develop the economy. In this sense, I believe that a new law should be passed as soon as possible, but thank God that Croatian forests make what makes them special, given the matter that is being done to continue to have one approach I will repeat a conservative approach to traditional approach, I welcome it. But of course we need to open up new aspects of economic development in some way, because all, because that national national wealth, it needs to be in the function of man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24292	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24293	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm afraid by changing this law we're opening a Pandora's box that in a few years for a part of the Croatian forest could mean a death sentence. In particular, Article 4 of these amendments provides that, in addition to the current conditions for service to the Croatian forests, the construction of waterways, sewerage, pipelines and power lines, this right is to be extended to the expropriation of mineral raw materials and to the rise of multi-annual plantations. Why, in my opinion? I think it's a keyword or a fee code. It's not about changing forest land to something else, it's about service and it's not about 100, it's about 10. Now we build a water line between the two villages and the city through the woods and it was a service and after the pipes into the ground are buried there remains the forest. But the government now proposes that even after the opening of the quarry the extraction of gravel or sand where the quarry is will remain the forest. It is probably a natural phenomenon that will only be possible with us in Croatia. Croatia today has about a million and 600 hectares of forest area, 337 thousand hectares of unprocessed, 61 thousand infertile forest land owned and over 460 thousand hectares of private-owned forest. It is somewhere around 2 million and 50 thousand hectares or 36% of the territory Croatia has under the woods. Under an agreement or a Kyoto standard, the state should lead such a policy of forest protection that it never falls below 35% of the territory. Dale, we're somewhere on the border when your data was the latest. I don't know if they're still worth it. So, at the limit of standard. We now propose that forests not through the reuse of land but service can be turned into multi-annual plantations with the fact that in similar or same territory or territory of Croatia we have 300 thousand hectares of unprocessed agricultural land. So, at 300 thousand acres, we don't plant permanent plantations, but we will therefore allow permanent plantations to be planted where the forest was today or yesterday. I repeat that in these 300 thousand hectares is located right in the area where this will be used most often or most. So I suggest we plant these 300 thousand acres first, let's turn these 300 thousand acres into vineyards, olive groves and orchards, so if we don't have enough, then let's see where else we can get a territory, a fertile land to turn it into permanent crops. I don't understand the purpose and purpose of allowing the forests to flow, to allow quarryes and permanent plantations to be opened in the woods and so much untapped land. Each law and so does this one has its implementing acts and regulations, so the amendment of the Regulation on the regulation of the forest has established two news. Therefore, not by law but by regulation, in the event of the establishment of a service for the purpose of raising several years of damages, no compensation for forest land shall be charged. So there won't be any less than there won't be any compensation to be paid if we turn the forest into permanent plantations. And normally, there are exceptional cases as there are in every regulation with us that, in these exceptional cases, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry decides, and that is the regulations of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture has authorised itself by its own regulation to decide on exceptional cases as well. That is why I express great fear and fear if we change Article 61 of the Law that this formula without compensation will not be only for permanent plantations but also for quarryes don't give God tomorrow and that these exceptional cases are no more and more. In early February of this year, Minister Cobankovic addresses the government and says, meanwhile, a change in relations in agriculture has occurred and particularly prominent wine houses and olive groves have estimated that smaller pieces of fire-fighting forest land could be put into a better position in order to raise permanent plantations in these sites. Fifteen years ago, Greece brought something similar. She allowed the burned forest areas to be turned into something else. They went down a little bit and allowed it to be rerouted and into building land. There are no forests on the Greek islands and on the coast today. Greece is no longer in that part of the forest. Let us, too, allow the burning forest land to be turned into construction land and we will be counting fires, wondering why this has started to happen, and this very announcement of possibilities is already extremely risky and dangerous. That is why it is our amendment that this Article 4 must be left out of the law, at least for as long as we do not consider all possible consequences and at least for as long as this rule is in force. I'm warning the relationship between the law and the regulations and I'm warning you that whenever I've been looking for reasons why this is now proposed and the rules have changed before that, I've always had a rabbit, a wolf, a fox, and another rabbit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24294	Please. Replicated representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24295	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's what the distinguished representative has now repeated is what a colleague before him said on behalf of the club about the agricultural surfaces and the possibility of permanent plantations. I'm here to talk about permanent crops, not the exploitation of mineral raw materials. I have heard from many colleagues here when they say that we want to join the European Union that by that time we must have a greater number of permanent plantations, especially vineyards, etc. Because we have insufficient amounts and all that. Therefore, if we have now opened this regulation, which was adopted last year, the possibility that in certain areas suitable for permanent plantations, this is primarily about vineyards, to allow, in the forest land and definitely and responsibly to claim that this forest land is not 100-year-old trees or some forests, but forest land which is mostly healed by maquis if I am allowed to say so. Surely this is the right way in which we can, with speedy measures and with the support of the ministry in terms of raising and the whole project of raising long-term plantations, still restore much of the vineyard areas. And I disagree that then we wait for a certain time until all those 300 thousand or 270 thousand hectares of agricultural land first bring culture because we know that all these agricultural areas in Dalmatia are very problematic in terms of property-legal relations and 90% of them are impossible to bring into that part. Here when it comes to such forest land it is possible to raise vineyards and ask vineyards down in Dalmatia on islands, ask those who raised olive groves that it is still a very, very useful job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24296	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24297	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Pankretic, I could accept your arguments only on two terms. First, instead of general information to make it or to say how many hectares in which county and in which city it has been done so far, or should it be done to create infertile forest land and to open permanent plantations. Whether it's in oak forests or not, I don't know, but only when we get the exact list of particles will we be able to determine where it's done and if it's because of the island, and as far as I know, there's a quarry in other forest territories. And secondly, it's not an argument that we have to plant vineyards and olives, but it's an argument that it's not a service, but a change of land from forest to agricultural. Yeah, let's plant but let's say what's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24298	The second replica of the respected representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24299	Thank you, Mr. President. I would only tell Mr. Lesar that in the area, therefore, in order to understand the problem, in the area of Split-Dalmatia County over 600,000 hectares is owned by the State or with them by the lords of the Croatian forest. All the demands, all the requirements, listen well to the development of the economy, means entrepreneurship zones, industrial zones, so all the requirements for permanent plantations don't go past 3,000 hectares. And I tell you why a series of meetings have been held in this government and this is on the trail of what Mr Pankretić was saying very nicely, if we want to leave Croatia stiff and that nothing is moving then we should listen to Mr Sesara whether, Cesara, so listen to him and certainly nothing in this country would have started. So I appeal to all reasonable people in this to enable, therefore, us who are from Dalmatia we know what you talk about Greece. So we know what was on those surfaces burned down, they were pine trees, there was maquis, and it favored the ugly appearance of tourism. And when a small part of us want to increase our purpose, then we see what kind of resistance we are facing here in this House, and in fact it's completely unwarranted, I don't know, I don't know who you'd be protecting it from, so, development and coast and Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24300	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24301	I certainly won't accept your appeal because you obviously didn't understand what I was talking about. The category of forest land service shall apply when the value of the forest is not reduced when it is not converted into an industrial zone. If you want to build an industrial or entrepreneurial zone in the forest, then it's a re-use of land and not a service on forest territory. And then one kind of fee is paid and when the service is none or far less. And I'm talking about the question of how many forests in Croatia we're going to have is not just you from Dalmatia, but that's also the issue of us from Medjugorje. It's a national fortune, not the local fortune of Dalmatia's colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24302	State Secretary Josip Bartolcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think there's still a need to clarify here, I see that we're constantly spinning around this service, but here, there's been a real attempt to overestimate and reasonably try to show what our institute of service on forest land is. But perhaps it remains unclear, first of all the Institute of Service refers to unprocessed forest land. So that's the land that's not grown by vegetation, to explain to the end, maybe it's been unclear so far. If, if so, then for that same reason, we have changed the rules in the sense that such land does not involve the useful functions of the forest at all but only for unprocessed forest land and only for the purpose of raising years of plantation in order to help even more of these people who want to go into raising year-old pests to make it as simple as possible and not to say economically more profitable entry into such a business that is of national interest. About the special cases in which the Ministry took the right to interpret whether or not some land was forestland, it is, but tell me who should interpret whether or not some land is forest land, if not the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, which is not in charge of that resort. So, we didn't take anything from anyone else, we took what we and the law have to figure out whether or not it was a forest plot if it was a dispute and there were cases like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24304	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, a respected representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24305	Mr. President, respected colleagues and colleagues, what is forest land otherwise the land of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia will not be interpreted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry but will be interpreted by the Croatian Parliament. Because the Croatian Assembly must establish specific legal conditions among other things and regulate how the use and implementation of the Republic of Croatia is done in the use of, exploiting the right-holders on such land. And two. You know, it's hard to interview that forest land is unprocessed land, it's usually either a rocker or a desert or more often on our occasions, to the luck of the Oranica garden, etc., but it's not forest land if it hasn't grown.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24306	Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24307	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In the law we have defined two areas, one area is related to the right of service and how to resolve the relationship of forests and the extraction of mineral raw materials and the other is a matter of inspection and I would say jurisdiction over inspection services. Maybe two words about relations that are very important to the forest, as much as for the Croatian economy, which is the ratio of forests and the expansion of mineral raw materials. And I think the legal definition of the forest law is that the right to service is fine, it's fine. Number one, we're not getting rid of the rights of ownership of the woods. We have through this institute always a chance to fight to bring back the woods after the cease-exploitation and we always think they'll be woods. And I think it's a better institute than the issue of expropriation where more states have no influence, the new owner can do whatever he wants. So let's try to understand, it's a legal institute! And we can be pleased that a model was finally found to solve the possibility of even asking for a building permit for any mine. We are talking about mines, we have all turned to quarrys because they are the result of fast road construction but the bigger problem Croatia has remained mineral raw materials. And now we get back to the problem of implementation. It is not worth implementing in Croatia. What we're bringing today won't speed up the procedure. It won't speed up. That's for sure. Why? Well, that's why we're in the last places and in competitiveness, obviously a lot of things. We need to change the behavior of the administration in implementing these laws. The fears of our assembly representatives appear, and here we have heard our fellow Lesars and others perform. And how do you think those fears are in the presence of citizens? And the main problem is that we need to understand that if we want to get a mine then the one that's going to deal with this needs to address the local self-government, the Ministry of Forestry, the Ministry of Justice, must address the Ministry of Construction, he must contact the Ministry of Economy to get it. All that, well, with this new solution under the age of four, will be a premium if it ends. We should basically just ask the Government to set up a mine-use programme in its programme which is called the "Depreciation of Administrative Barriers" programme by the end of 2005 and I would say the location of mines in part of mineral raw materials. To bring local self-governments in line with their acts and these are spatial plans within half a year after the adoption of the act. That after that, the Ministry of Economy is instituting a service contract, obtaining a building permit, and only then does it sign a concession. Then the economics within 30 days can solve this problem, and then we will solve the issue of service fees because the Ministry of Economy will say: each year it will single out for the return of the forest for, say, the resolution of the consequences of the excavation, I don't know, so many kunas. It is a problem that exists in Croatia. How do you implement the acts? So these are legal frameworks. This is what we need, and we just have to define in which one single place the landlord will get... And there's only one place that's going to make sure that the landlord digs up just as much as he's been given to pay the fee, so he can go bankrupt, but he's going to spend the year's fees on expropriation, so if he doesn't stay, he's going to add an additional state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or maybe they'll find a new one, and then the new one will continue with the ugly exploitation. And it won't open anywhere. So what we as parliamentary representatives may need to define in our conclusion, ask the Government to through the programme of destruction of administrative barriers within 6 months that the resolution programme, I would say, hastening procedures to obtain quality procedures for issuing concession permits and, of course, all accompanying documents related to the exploitation of mining wealth. We'll solve our problems. There's a problem with our implementation. And now we're about the legal form in that part of it we're burdening ourselves. So this suggestion, let's leave legal form. It's better than exorcism. The greater possibilities and responsibilities are by... And according to the protection of the forest, and also to the owners. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The biggest tragedy is in this part of our ineffectiveness that we have an illegal exploitation of the quarry. As far as the mines are concerned, since these are still the companies responsible for the production of glass, ceramics, I don't know what else, no mine exploitation, very little. That's why we have huge imports of all raw materials and we have our own, so we're wondering why we have high imports, and what's the biggest problem is that people in the mines don't do. We don't have employees. So our problem is unemployment, our problem is I would say high imports, our problem is low at the competitiveness factory, but we don't realize that it's just the government's obligation to solve it through the collapse of administrative barriers to make them more efficient. So here's how much, maybe through the conclusion we try to define what we know will continue to remain wound cancer independent of this amendment to the law that I support. Personally, I believe that the solution to return to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is not a good solution and that they should remain outside the Ministry, and I therefore appreciate that this change will not increase efficiency, and we know that we are also struggling with the problem of bribery, corruption, this and that, and it is always that problem whether to bring solutions in the same place, to control ourselves, is the source of the problem or not? I think it's and that that solution is not good and that you should still in some way... this ministry define jurisdiction... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24308	Thank you. Dear Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24309	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, which was passed about two years ago or so ago. In 2002 a public company for the management of forests and forest land, Croatian forest, was transformed into a commercial company of Croatian forests, d.o.o. However, the law lays down the provisions of Articles 23, 24 and 25 governing the management and management of public undertakings that no longer exist as well as the powers of the Ministry of Business which no longer exists. It is not clear to me how this could have happened in the adoption of these past amendments and in addition to the Law on the Forests, and now it is quite logical and I support that these provisions be excluded from the law and that they no longer exist. The Law establishing and delirious the central authorities of the State Administration have moved the affairs of the forest inspection into the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, and it is logical for me to now distinguish between the State Inspectorate and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, regardless of what, to the observations always made in such solutions that when the profession is gathered, there is the possibility of abuse in carrying out its inspection tasks. I think that's a good solution and that it should be supported because you can always do abuse, do one who's prone to abuse, so whatever kind of organisational form of inspection you have in the state. In this way inspection services responsible for forest management and forest land will be gathered in one place, and the organisation and inspections are proposed such that they will be carried out in the Ministry and in the regional units established for this purpose throughout the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the entire territory will be covered with an appropriate inspection service. All other jobs and responsibilities that have been so far with the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry or the Croatian Forests, and they are related to the exploitation of mineral raw materials will now go nicely where they belong because they should never have been in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, but we had such a solution and unfortunately one part of the consequences that happened to us in the exploitation of mineral raw materials is exactly the kind of solution that was in the Law on Croatian Forests. In my view, the legislator has not clearly regulated the questions relating to the exploitation of mineral raw materials for the purposes of Croatian forests for the construction of roads and fire roads, and I think that the proposer of these questions regarding the body that will permit the exploitation of these mineral raw materials in a more favourable way to the company of the Croatian forest which is now a commercial society should be regulated by a new law. These issues should not remain further questionable because they will continue to produce the side effects we have had so far in the future. Just a few more words about Article 61 of the Law. It now complements and opens up the possibility of stopping service in forests and forest land to extract pension raw materials and raise many years of plantation. It was a major dispute over how to apply the provisions of Article 61. In my opinion, these reluctances are now being removed. I do not share the opinion of fellow MPs who express great concern about reducing the surface area of forest land. I'm more concerned that we now have 300 thousand acres of unprocessed farmland which here thanks to God thanks to nature are slowly turning into forests. That we need some 3,000 or 4,000 or 5,000 forest land to use this route, or, let it turn into a farmland where vineyards or other cultures will grow, it is a negligible area. And in my view that one hectare of such land of forest land is converted into vineyards every one who wants it should invest very serious work and great resources. I think the new law will have to open up an opportunity to extract that land, because giving on conditions prescribed by this law to someone for 10 or 20 years is out of the question. For investment is too great for those who do so. And plus, he's just a servant. Therefore, we will find few businessmen and citizens who will decide to go under these conditions to organize and raise permanent crops. A few more words about the organisation of the forest inspection are, of course, now being organised in two degrees. With state inspectors at the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry conducting a second degree administrative procedure. And forest inspectors are in the stations that are organized in Rijeka, Split, Varazdin Osijek and Zagreb. And they're conducting first-degree administrative surveillance. Control of the implementation of fire protection measures in forests and forest land will be carried out by inspectors to protect against the interior ministry's fires. That is, if I consider it a good solution and it is not another inspection, it could not have done so successfully as an inspection by the Ministry of the Interior. As for the harmonisation of criminal provisions with the law on penalties, I think it was properly carried out. And that's how it's supposed to be done. Here and finally, Mr. President would point out that this is 14 amendments to the Law on the Forests. So I have therefore proposed to you and the Croatian Parliament that we draw the conclusion that our Committee of Law be obliged to adopt and publish the consolidated text of this Law. Because I believe you'll agree with me that the use of this law in conduct is really difficult when there are 14 amendments and additions. Finally, I can say that I support the adoption of this Law by the fact that the Proposer has put in place these provisions and solutions that we have highlighted in the debate that they are not yet sufficiently defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24310	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, Vice President of the House Mato Arlovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24311	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm kind of the most committed to actually giving the final proposal to amend the law on forests should conduct a debate in first reading and practically leave a little more time for the proposer to fix this bill. And eventually remove the shortcomings that could be manifested. The first and most serious inconsistencies of this law are probably related to Article 52(2). The Constitution, which states that the law lays down the way in which goods of interest for the Republic of Croatia can be used, makes use of the powers conferred on them by the owners and the compensation for the restrictions they are subject to. The fact is that these issues are not regulated by this law, and as you know, Article 1 of Article 52. The constitution provides that forests and land are also of special interest to the Republic of Croatia. This Law opens up the possibility of establishing the exploitation and exploitation of mineral raw materials or the rise of years-long plantations in forests or forest land but does not provide for any compensation for restrictions to which forests or forest land will be subjected. Nor have they prescribed certain and determined ways in which goods of interest for the Republic of Croatia can be used, used by right-holders. In fact, we also have a problem related to another law, such as the mining law, which is practically not implemented in the work at least when it comes to the power of the Croatian Parliament to make a decision, for example, on the schedule of mines in the Republic of Croatia. And in such a situation, the important thing about the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia remains unsettled and unscheduled. The second question that comes from the nature of the things of this bill is that there will be some forms of conflict on the ground. Because let us not forget that one significant instrument will have units of local and regional self-government that through spatial plans influence how and how land will be used or distributed in their space. In such a situation, of course, there is an exception that state bodies of higher rank may or may deny consent to this plan. And in such a situation, in fact, there will be unnecessary conflicts between the central government and local authorities in my opinion. And I think that before that, we should bring in and complete this bill. And in this respect correct what has not been done to the end. Therefore, they can personally support the exploitation of pension raw materials and the rise of years-old pests to be introduced into the law and to open such an opportunity. However, the conditions and criteria and methods for such restrictions should be simplified, i.e. under which conditions and criteria the authorising officer may use and use these raw materials. And of course which position of the central state relative to local and regional self-government. The second remark I have personally in this regard regarding this bill is actually a question of the relationship between the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, on the one hand, and the water industry, and on the other hand, the State Inspectorate. I personally believe that it is not good for the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to give authority to have the inspections at his place to do so by the fact that this law should actually be implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Water Economy and in such a situation objectively brings itself into a position that it will control itself. I don't think that's good, and in a situation like this, it's supposed to avoid solutions like this, because it's not meaningful. In particular, this is interesting, given another fact that in Article 26, the law currently in force under which the supervision of labour law is to be carried out by an unresorted ministry and the question now is what will be controlled by the resolution ministry of the company d.o.o. Croatian forests, if not controlled among other things, the legality of work and everything else that should be very important in this respect for the operation and operation of this space. Third, the fact is that another situation is opening up which again raises the question of possible conflict between certain state bodies, such as the issue of relations between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, because it is possible that fire protection inspectors can carry out forest protection tasks in the forest land, but that then they have forest inspector status, and if then forest inspectors, to whom are they subordinated? The Ministry of Interior or the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy? This issue has not been resolved by this law, and of course it has not been resolved by the Fire Protection Act. Therefore, he should not be left unspeakable. Fourthly, I have several individual remarks, such as Article 3 where it is said that the words, clay, sand, gravel, and stone will be deleted in Article 45(1). You cannot delete what is not valid in the text of the law. The word clay just doesn't. Therefore, you cannot simply delete it if it is not found in Article 45. It shall be contained in Article 44(2). Furthermore, it is said among other things that a specific part of the national expert examination referred to in paragraph 1 will be carried out and that it is not actually spoken and which is the whole part of the national examination, because it is said only that it will be subject to a forest inspector’s examination without saying which exam and parts. Therefore, there is a need to see what it is, what is the relationship between the whole and the special part. It is particularly interesting that the 1st-degree inspection and surveillance are carried out by forest inspectors, and the 2nd-degree state forest inspectors, while at the same time saying that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry will decide to do so in the second degree. Now, who's going to decide at first? In the second degree state inspector of the forest or ministry? That part needs to be resolved and these issues need to be resolved. The sixth, very interesting deadline is said to be laid down for the adoption of these laws within 6 months. At the same time, however, it is important to note the important fact that most of these regulations should be adopted by state bodies. What does it mean to take effect immediately on this law and to seek emergency proceedings? For it will objectively not be possible to implement until the implementing rules and technical standards to be laid down in these specific regulations are adopted. Seven, look, it's quite unusual, but it's still accepted here that this law amends the second law, so this law changes certain, or ceases to apply certain provisions of the State Inspectorate Act, which would not be right, and in such a situation, it would certainly be necessary to prepare that amendment and the addition of the law in that part. And here, eight, I am particularly emphasising on Article 19, no later than 31 December 2004, quote "The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and Water Economy from the State Inspectorate in the area units assumes their duties". And what happens after that if he doesn't take over? And in addition, how he'll take over if he hasn't prepared these 6-month acts that need to be worked out and set up inspections with him and everything else that should be done, because it's not written on the rule. Clearly, then, a whole series of things in the Law need to be further developed so that, of course, relevant things and relationships can be established in this respect. In particular it is interesting, Article 10(1), paragraph 7 is better said, where it is said, contrary to the general acts, to the collection of forests, forest fruit, etc., compared to Article 45 of the applicable Forest Act. However, there are other laws that allow the collection of forest fruits, and they are not subject to these general acts, because it is in fact obvious that it is implementing acts rather than laws. In particular, the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas also allows certain activities in the forests, of course and in this respect real exceptions, with certain natural constraints, and in this respect, that part should be completed. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, And there remains a particular question, in fact, who will be doing this job in the protection of the legality of work, when this is no longer the competent Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the water economy, because we must not forget the fact that the transformation, restructuring and privatisation of the Croatian forests has not yet been done. Therefore, until this happens, there will be and will exist after that, but in a different form, related to ownership powers than so far is a restriction in the management of Croatian forests related to the protection of the special interest of the Republic of Croatia in this regard. It is therefore impossible to establish this if the legality of the work is not controlled, i.e. by the law prescribed restrictions on officials who have to protect the practical interest of the state in the management, management and exploitation of Croatian forests and forest land. For all these reasons, I plead to accept the suggestion that this Bill proposal, the final bill goes into first reading, and until the second reading that can be at this session, that these shortcomings are removed and that this bill is actually being completed so that it will be quality and easily implemented in practice and that it also ensures the intention that it is intended to achieve, on the one hand, and on the other hand, at the same time to effectively protect the personal interest of the Republic of Croatia in the management and management of Croatian forests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24312	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24313	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, I think a lot has been said so far, so I will try to shorten my discussion, but at first I must stress that the preserved forests of the Republic of Croatia are not a coincidence, but the work of our forestkeepers and I think this is also an opportunity to make it particularly prominent. Personally, I was not in a small number of opportunities in the countries of the European Union that are many times ahead of us in Croatia when we compare ourselves by some things, but I can say freely in the jargon, they took off our hat when it comes to forests, about their nature, about everything our foresters have done. So I stress that, because surely this is an opportunity to do it again. What I have to say is that we all agree here, and how much information I have is a new forest law. He needed it, there were attempts to pass the procedure in the Croatian Parliament in the past meeting, but that did not happen. So I think the necessity of a new forest law, we all agree, is necessary. We are clearly told here that this Law is primarily an amendment and addition here today in front of us because it was necessary to change certain things, i.e. Include a forest inspection at the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and I here, unlike some of my colleagues fully agree with it and I think the right decision to involve myself was that and my insistence was, unfortunately, not achieved, now it's being realized and I think it's good and not only about forest inspection, but we'll have it in the fishing inspection, we'll have it in hunting inspection. I think he's also in the agricultural inspection going that way. We have different examples in the world, somewhere it's united as it was before at the State Inspectorate, but I think agriculture is specific and I think we'll have much better results in this part. Certain technical things we've heard here today that there are certain observations that must surely be addressed. What I would particularly point out here is where the HSS Club will intervene through amendments, which, if it is to condition our support or to deny our support for this law in the globally speaking, because something relating to Article 1 and today is not mentioned very much, refers to the disputed erasure of Article 22 of the existing law, which deletes the obligation of the Management Board or the Supervisory Board to propose to the Croatian Assembly to adopt a status change of business. I'm not going to go in that if it's a change, we've got a public firm, we're moving on to a company, we don't have a board of directors anymore, we have a board of supervisors. Certain relationships are being changed. But I'm talking about the measure of things here. So far, if the public company "Croatian Forests" and we have such announcements, it is going to privatise the last decision to make the Croatian Parliament. We know that we had such examples when, for example, for the company INA, the Croatian Parliament passed a special Privatisation Act. We are now erasing Article 22, not by making anything new or at least suggesting that it will be in the new law in a certain way we are removing the possibility and power of the Croatian Parliament to make a final decision on the status changes of the "Croatian Forests". I personally advocate on behalf of the HSS that it is necessary to leave it in the law, whether in this existing one, that the Government intervenes there with its amendment, whether in the new law, because I think it is too important to privatise the "Croatian Forests", and that, we are all aware, is a lot of talk and I think that a certain privatisation and as part of the restructuring of the "Croatian Forests" must happen. These are the trends we need to go towards. What I'm going to do again here is what we do with the part of the proposal for the articles that we have in the part of the exploitation of mineral raw materials. I am personally aware that the quarryes, especially in the "Croatian forests", were problematic, but much has been done lately. However, there is no need to let go of anything that is extremely important here. Every year, depending on which Croatian Forests built 300 to 500km of fire roads. These fire roads are a priority and prevention in defense of fire. I think that if we accept this way of eradicating and the possibility that in a certain way more "Croatian forests" will not be able to use stone for their own needs. I think the Croatian Forests are in trouble and that the more dynamics of building the fire roads won't be able to continue. Not only have these fire roads been used to protect against fires, they have served in many cases, especially in our coast our people to reach their fields, and they can say here in the north, many of these primarily fire roads were later turned almost into public roads connecting our areas. Not to mention how many times the company "Croatian Forests" has helped municipalities, cities also in maintaining certain roads leading to their forests in this way. I think that if we limit this possibility of using for our own needs, to maintain, clearly emphasized, those roads, these fire roads, I think we're going to reduce our ability to protect ourselves and I'd say that national interest, which is fire protection. Well, here I think we've talked enough about a certain, uh, service in terms of years of damages, I don't think there's anything that needs to be added. I fully support this proposal, and I think that only now is that regulation and what we have already done, given that it started last year, in a certain way we are legalising and hardening and I believe that in many places, it, the forest land that was not in full operation, which is not a forest, will turn into multi-annual plantations and contribute to the fact that we welcome the entry into the European Union as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24314	Thank you. On behalf of the motionary, Secretary of State Bartolcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24315	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Mr. Arlovic left, but it is really strange this exposure when the law passed all parliamentary committees and on all parliamentary committees he received support, among other things on the Legislative Committee. Why are there so many objections? That's hard to explain. And here, in part, I agree with Mr Pankretić, but it should be pointed out again that there is indeed a new law in the making that will certainly remove all these recommendations in a more quality way and that these are technical changes. If we went to explain each article, it would not be so quick to complete it, but probably a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24316	Thank you. There's a five-minute debate going on around the clubs. On behalf of the HSP Club, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24317	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. In the name of the club, I'm going to take a quick look at all this stuff that's been said here today. First question. Crossing a forest inspection from the State Inspectorate at the Ministry of Agriculture is a huge mistake and no one can convince me it's not a mistake. If you want to have the right situation and know what the situation is in which area, then the inspection must be independent and connected to the Prime Minister and then the Prime Minister will know at any moment what is going on and how. In this way we come to the same "cadiya and sue, cadija and judge" and this is a situation which is bad, especially regarding the provisions, because the provisions are not such as to allow uninterrupted work and the conduct of inspectors, and everything that should be contained in the law is known. You don't have anything to say in case of temporary measures taking, providing evidence and other things, but we can talk about it later. It's a different situation. We welcome this part so that "Croatian forests" that are no longer a public enterprise but d.o.o. take away the possibility that, under quotes, "for their own purposes" mineral raw materials can be exploited. Mr. Secretary of State, go to the State Inspectorate, take a look at three tapes of Croatian air forests, and you will be amazed at what wounds were opened in those areas, and for their management were responsible for the "Croatian Forests". It was still done by Mr Branko Jordanic, who in this part really introduced a major shift and significant shift, but unfortunately there is that case that his wife had had that part of the building permit, and since Minister Zuzul was also at that time paying taxes on that part, then he was replaced and not by the minister. But okay, let's move on. Now we're going for another important situation. The state has to decide whether or not we're going to import the stone, or if we're going to allow companies to come out of the concession. Most of it, it's 67% of your quarry at this point is in a phase that it can't solve property-legal relations. It cannot resolve property-legal relations because all these land in the area of forests and forest land and it was only done in 2002. It took a year, but it's not a question. The same people that worked then, they're working on those jobs now. The state inspectorate during Jordanic prevented the import of Bechtel from importing a stone eruptic from Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Hungary, and now it looks like we're going to import a stone. Now it looks like we're going to import the stone. I therefore call on the government to take action, that part of the commission that works by Mrs Katarina Chop and Mrs Snježana Frkovic, to work once, because I responsibly claim that they are one of the joints why they are not implemented. That's what Mr. Linic knows. We just have a situation that you have a case that means the Ministry of Justice, the Turopolje Penitentiary, failed to solve for nine years of property-legal relations. For that, the state's inspectorate has determined all how much illegal property he's done. The situation is simple, no one will be able to work until they pay for it. You give everyone five years to pay, and we can make a big move with that part of it in a way that we'll hire new people. Be careful to hire me new people, not quit. Therefore, the situation is more than bad in this part and the government says the government is not responsible for this, nor is the management committee responsible, but this expert group that prepares this and the Government there must take a major step in order not to return to the social boomerang that the government is guilty. It's not her fault. That's where I agree it's not her fault. The former government has created a good basis for solving this problem, but again we come to that part of the calculation, and the rule must be changed. According to the calculation for services carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, beware of the same amount for five years of exploitation as the compensation for the provision of services was as for the amount of savings. That's impossible. Well, then it's smarter to work, not to give out of your own, than to give in service, but it's unrealistic. Let's say in the region of Dalmatia what Niko was saying, there was this variant that they were calculating for the forest growth and all these things, and the forest will not yet be planted. So in this section, we're asking for the government to act responsibly and to solve this problem so that it doesn't happen that we don't import a stone, and that's your situation with this part of highway construction. Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24318	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24319	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting Mr. Pera Kovacevic's incorrect allegations that the Croatian forests had countless illegal quarrys. I think it would be good if the State Inspectorate had checked private quarryes before, and then they would have had a real relationship, and I can responsibly argue that it was ten times more than it was in the Croatian forests.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24320	Thank you. On behalf of the Club LIBRE, Honorable Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24321	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Let me refer with a few more words to the adoption of this law, first of all to point out another fact that I actually dropped during my presentation, and it seems to me that the MPs later did not mention it, at least not to a sufficient extent. It was also noted here, therefore, that Club LIBRE and many other clubs are also opposed to it, so that Article 22 is deleted by Article 1 which excludes the article from deciding on the status issues of the Croatian Forests. So we're against having the Parliament shut down, to transfer everything to the Ministry itself. But what I would like to warn in particular now, what is happening in article 45. to delete items 4 and 5. Namely these items... Paragraph 4 of the General Act on the exploitation of sand, gravel and stone referred to in paragraph 1 and the general act referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be adopted with the prior opinion of the County Assembly, or the City Assembly of Zagreb. [[You don't understand.]] And also item 5 for forests where there is ownership rights, and from paragraph 1 of this article brings the County Assembly, that is, the City Assembly of Zagreb, which is the body that determines it. Deleting these items excludes therefore local self-government, i.e. Regional self-government of our county and the city of Zagreb since therefore decision-making, i.e. giving an opinion on these acts. In fact, Article 45 deletes the possibility that a forest company, i.e. a legal person who controls forest fruits, also has sand, gravel and stone in case of need, is available. So far, it has been a legal possibility to do so with the previous opinion of the County Assembly. The changes in Article 45 therefore excludes the city of Zagreb from this process. In our view, then, one step that leads to further centralisation, which we will not agree to, that only the ministry, and even without even a single opinion of the unit of regional self-government, is either an opinion or an act, therefore, or a decision on such an important matter, which is that in their area there is an explosion of gravel that can offend or damage the environment. I don't think this is supposed to happen and we're looking for an explanation and clarification from the ministry. Is maybe somewhere else predicts therefore a greater role of regional self-government units, if not, so we are also opposed for this reason to passing this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24322	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Mato Šimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24323	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the end of the whole morning listening to what we had to say about these changes, I'd just say a few things. I am surprised to hear so much opposition to the amendments in Article 61 if we are with a few discussions, and also from the Secretary of State that in any case this will speed up the adoption procedure itself, means in the case of the problem of the exploitation of mineral raw materials, by calling for Article 15 that we have so far had where it was used so far, in 9 years two quarryes have managed to register. So anyway, this is going to make it better. Problems surrounding the rise of years of plantations to the burned forest land and, according to a respected colleague, the dangerous statement by Minister Cobankovic this spring, that permanent land should be planted, means vineyards in the area that was burned, and after the fires in Dalmatia, what we see. We see terraces where vineyards used to be and where olive groves used to be. And we have another thing, so no matter what we're afraid of, there's going to be a reduction in the area under the woods, if that part is planted, that's not true. I come from the war area of the fallen under the Papuk where in the last 14 years the woods have taken over, so I won't go too far, but somewhere around two and a half to three thousand farmland. So in the last 14, 15 years what used to be meadows, what was arable land today are forests. I believe that in the area of Bania and in other parts it is the same. So I don't think it's good to say that such a statement by Minister Cobankovic is dangerous. What will come out of Dalmatia and plant vineyards and olive groves, it has taken over in this part of where we are, where we live unfortunately for the reason I have already said. And since forests are a renewable resource, it's normal to do so. And I just wanted to say one more thing in the end. We've had a lot of data today that I don't think are right, where we're afraid because of the agreements that were signed, that we'll cross below 35% of the surface under the woods. If we take that we have 2 million and 458 thousand 611 hectares or 43% of the area under the woods and now what's interesting and what Mr. Secretary of State can say, which is all about the possibility of service, we have over 2 million 78 adults, but we also have unspeakable forest land, 345 thousand 952 hectares. We have 61 thousand 370 hectares of infertile forest land, and we have heard from colleagues, Rebić, who are the problems down in his area. So I believe that this law should be supported, that Articles 44, which are also amended and Article 61, are, in any case, a major improvement and progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24324	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24325	Dear gentlemen, the IDS Club clearly doesn't mind if we plant the burning forests in the vineyards. It's just that we're gonna plant vineyards when we have a law of 0.0, and that's how wrong it is. Our people will not plant vineyards until you give us back 0.5 of the past and more.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24326	I didn't understand this correction to an incorrect quote. On behalf of the HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ledinsky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24327	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. After this debate that we have spent this morning about the amendments and additions to the Law on the Forests, it is evident that forestry has an extremely great importance which I also talked about in the introduction and that every change that is happening is under the public's glass, especially us MPs. I appreciate that we've expressed concern about the possibility of reducing the surface under the woods, because let's not forget if the forest disappears, and we'll be gone, because we won't have the ability to breathe, there won't be any oxygen. Therefore, this concern of renewable resources is certainly justified. Therefore, it is also necessary to leave the possibility, first and foremost, for the state-owned forest company, Croatian forests, to perform those works that have worked so far, here I am thinking first of all about building fire roads and roads. Here today I have a list of Croatian Forests that says the least fires in the last 50 years. Well, it wasn't just because it was a small, weak fire season, which wasn't much fire, but because a lot of fire roads were made, because our fire departments had the opportunity to quickly get to the site of the fire and thus shut down, and in such a way as to ensure that the construction of these over 3,000 kilometers of roads in the last 8-9 years, certainly made it possible for the future to allow the state-owned enterprise to first of all to take care of the Mediterranean forests in particular, but all others, can continue in a successful way. It should also be possible to open these possibilities through the work of the Croatian forests, I would say, in particular, creation and employment. Here's an example, that Croatian forests first raised an olive grove of 12 hectares which was currently raised at the time, was the largest olive grove in the region of Dalmatia. Now there are bigger ones that were raised, but at the time he was raised a few years ago, it was the biggest. Thus, we have tried to explore the way in which an olive grove can be established on the surfaces that are unprocessed and in which agricultural culture can be raised to try to establish such an olive tree, and it is successfully developing and practically already producing the first fruits. Therefore, safe care should be taken not to harm the area under the forest, to open up the possibility and other possibilities that are. But also when we talk about reducing the area under the woods, then we have to worry about another law that isn't in the debate today, it's the Roads Act that allowed the building of roads without one kuna, and at the same time it's not possible to separate some of the funds for them and to raise such forests elsewhere, or to buy which has already been raised and here I appeal to this House to try to change this law in some way, and yes, then we'll only take real care of the areas under the woods. Once again, I would conclude that over 200 years of the tradition of organised forestry, the international certificate that we received three years ago, which says that with the forest is managed by strict ecological, social and economic standards that Croatia's forests have, as the only company in Europe that has that standard for all forests with which they are lords, it has no other company in Europe and it is the pride of all of us foresters. And the HSS Club has given certain amendments that I believe the Secretary of State will later form perhaps in some of its amendments and when we vote, then we will see if it is included and that way we will decide on how to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24328	Thank you. Finally, State Secretary Mr. Bartolcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24329	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In the end, I want to say a few more words in general about the law and everything that is said here today. Indeed, public interest both in the Parliament and in all our public is very large and it is also necessary to say that it would not remain unclear, that, in the context of your discussions, and also in the context of the proposed amendments and additions to the laws, it was very much taken into account that the first supervision of forests in the frameworks in which it was through this long-term forest tradition was, therefore, exclusively through the competent ministry because tradition showed that it was nevertheless the best way to monitor the implementation of the Forest Law, and also of the lawfulness of the work of forest management companies. That's very important to say. Secondly, through the Institute of Service, we have also said through the government's procedure that the Government has publicly announced, we are allowing this service to be in the function of developing agricultural production exclusively in terms of raising years-old plantations on those parts of Croatia that do not have other opportunities for the development of such multi-annual pests. And what's especially important here is to point out. It is clear and unequivocal through the Institute of Stone Breaking Services, and it is necessary here to say that we do not give amnesty to all of these illegal quarryes so far, because we cannot really do so by this law, but perhaps it is necessary to say so for the sake of all of us here and for the sake of the public, because the Institute of Service refers exclusively to those who will apply in the future based on the procedure and the basis of business results, that is, of their potential objectives in the management of mineral raw materials. The privatisation of companies related to a certain part of Article 22 is absolutely certain that in this Privatisation Council, if it comes to it, it must and can only be debated. And I am responsibly saying that the government has not questioned the first privatisation of companies at least now that things are not going to come to it, and in the context of the possible privatisation of certain activities, I am also responsible for saying that the Croatian Parliament will decide on this, because it is the only place where it can be decided. And in conclusion, so the new forest law is in the works and it will come very quickly to the parliamentary procedure. It will certainly make it even more detailed, so it will not change compared to the current company. The purpose of the forest will be defined and the use between the other part and this part of the natural resources related to the company's own needs, and will also be consistent with all European directives that bind us and which we are signatories to. And with, of course, European traditions in which our forestry will fit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24330	Thank you. With this, we've exhausted the debate on this agenda point. The vote will be when the conditions are put in place.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24331	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Forest Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, Bill No 176. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, the HNS PGS Representatives' Club, MP Marko Širac and the HSS Representatives' Club. I'm asking the Secretary of State to show up on the amendments. Let's take it in a row. Yes, you can. Here you go. Amendment of the Committee on Lawfulness.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24332	The amendment of the Committee on Legislatives is accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24333	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. Second, the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HNS PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24334	This amendment the Government cannot accept with the explanation I gave in the introduction because it would...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24335	In the microphone, you're talking to the secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24336	It's not on, it's on now. The amendment cannot be accepted by the government for reasons that it would be contrary to the government's 2007 programme, as well as in contrast to the programme of raising the years of damages that the government has accepted, and thus this amendment would be contrary to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24337	Thank you very much. Who's going to be on behalf of the HNS PGS Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24338	The vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24339	To vote for that amendment, let's get involved. To vote. Score. I find that the amendment was voted by 17, abstentioned 11 against 76, so the amendment did not receive the necessary majority. The amendment of Agent Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24340	This amendment is accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24341	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. Four amendments to the HSS Representatives Club. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24342	1st Amendment The Government does not accept the reason why we have said that this article is actually regulated by public business issues and that these articles propose to delete, and among other things, the status change in the company is not foreseen in the future redesign of the companies itself, so it is unnecessary to leave this article especially in this law that the new Forest Act is in the making where it will absolutely be regulated that in all status changes it is exclusively decided in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24343	Please, who's going to do it? Dear Representative Zeljko Ledinski on behalf of the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24344	After this proposal, read by the State Secretary, it is obvious that we will no longer be able to discuss status changes in the company. The vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24345	Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result, 27 votes for the amendment, 3 abstentions, 74 against, did not get the required majority. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24346	This amendment is not accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24347	Explain briefly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24348	It is also a matter of harmonising this article with the Law on Mining and the Law on the State Inspectorate, and it is normal that we cannot accept it because it is not proposed in the jurisdiction of the forest inspection and thus the forest law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24349	Agent Ledinsky? The vote. Please, let's get on with it. Score. 23 votes for, 6 abstentions and 77 against did not get the required majority. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24350	This amendment is also not accepted by the Government for the same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24351	Representative Ledinsky.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24352	voting the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24353	Please, let's get on with it. Score. 23 for, five abstentions, 75 against, he didn't get the required majority. And Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24354	This amendment is not accepted by the Government for the reason that we have tried to introduce the order on the market through the mineral raw materials service institute, and for this reason it is absolutely unacceptable to introduce this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24355	The vote. Please, let's get on with it. Score. 17 for, 5 abstentions, 85 against, did not get the required majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please engage. Please vote. Score. I find that with 80 votes for, 8 abstentions and 5 against the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. In accordance with the Proposal for a Committee on Legislatives, I am voting on the following conclusion: The sectional service of the Assembly shall be authorised to publish a revision of the text of this Act before its publication in the National Journal. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. I find that with 103 votes for, 2 abstentions and 2 against the proposed conclusion. Thirdly, in accordance with the proposal of legislator Marko Širc, I am voting on the following conclusion: It is up to the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament to draw up and publish the consolidated text of the Law on Forests. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24356	We have considered this law on the Legislative Committee, with this conclusion that you have proposed, which he has already agreed to agree with the Prime Minister and the Proposer concluded, and in fact we have been promised that by the end of the year or perhaps even before, perhaps a little later, but in any case, in any case, the Government will eventually come out with this bill. For this reason, and since it is practically impossible to make the consolidated text of this Law, I suggest, however, that my colleague Shirac withdraw the proposal for this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24357	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's nothing impossible. It's a job to publish a consolidated text. It's nothing impossible. And I am voting on this proposal by the conclusion of Mr. Shirtz, please engage. Whether or not the Government will propose a new text of the Forest Act. Please vote. Score. 101 votes for, 2 abstentions, 4 against. The conclusion is made.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24358	I thank the Secretary of State. We move to, - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on administrative fees in the field of intellectual property rights, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 179. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. You received the proposal by mail, in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant like to further explain the proposal? Here you go. Master Željko Topic, Director of the State Intellectual Property Institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24359	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Zeljko Topic and I am the director of the State Intellectual Property Institute. I'm here as rapporteur on the 9th item of the agenda. So before you is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on administrative fees in the field of intellectual property rights. It is a regulation of July 2000 which regulates and pays administrative fees for actions in front of the State Intellectual Property Office, and concerning the recognition and maintenance of intellectual property rights and the tariff of administrative fees, which is its integral part. In the context of the accession process to the European Union, in particular in the process of harmonising its legislation with the acquis of the European Union, the Republic of Croatia has committed to ensure by March 2005 such a system of protection of intellectual property rights equivalent to what exists in the European Union. In this area, the Republic of Croatia has almost finished the job. This primarily refers to the fact that this same Parliament passed six special laws last year that regulate intellectual property rights issues in a narrow sense. The names are: patent law, stamp law, industrial design law, geographical indications and product and service originality codes, the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products, which all form a set of so-called ‘. the rights of industrial ownership and the Law on copyright and related rights which together with the above constitute a total set of intellectual property rights. All these laws were therefore passed during last year and entered into force on 1 January of this year. Thereafter, implementing rules were adopted, i.e. rules for their application, and all these rules had adopted some new titles. They brought some new content and brought some new institutes. Changes in the term refer to the name itself, so the Industrial Form Act became the Industrial Design Act, for example, and the Law on the Protection of Plans and Integrated Sets of the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Hungarian Products. So this is the main cause, and these changes in terms are the main cause that has conditionaled on the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Administrative Taxes. Except for the title itself, of course, there are some new institutes. This primarily refers to the evidence of additional protection passed by the patent law, the new patent law and some amendments and to the re-establishment of the right, and also the Industrial Design Act brings an amendment through the new Institute of Delays of Registration. In order to be able to implement these procedures, these procedures are, of course, at a standstill now, necessary or necessary to adopt this Act on, or propose the adoption of the Law on Amendments and the addition of the Law on Administrative Taxes. Mr. Vice President, I wouldn't take the attention of the MPs and the work of this House. If there are any questions about these changes and additions, we will be happy to answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24360	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24361	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Director. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Administrative Taxes in the field of intellectual property rights and, first of all, for two basic reasons. The Republic of Croatia, therefore, is obliged to ensure the level of protection of intellectual property similar to or the same level that exists in the countries of the European Union, as provided for in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community, or their Member States. Secondly, intellectual property is indeed one of the priority areas of harmonisation of our legislation, but legal system, and as prescribed by the Interim Agreement on Trade and Related Issues between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community. Contentfully looking at the law in question is rounding up one whole or a normative framework, and it is in itself relying on already adopted regulations on this area. Therefore, the field of intellectual property rights and, in its essence, constitutes a basic prerequisite for their direct application. It should be pointed out that the areas of intellectual property rights are regulated in detail by all those laws that have already been adopted and entered into force in the sense of compliance with the acquis of the European Community. These are the Law on patents, the Law on trade marks, the Act on Industrial Design, the Law on Geographical Origin and the designations of origin of products and services, the Law on Topography and Semi-Hungarian Products, as well as the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. The amendments to the law in question are aimed at harmonising in terms of the terminology of the concepts used above in the field of intellectual property rights. New institutes have also been introduced which primarily elaborate the provisions of the patent law, which relate to the payment of administrative fees for the issue of additional protection certificates, then to the declaration of invalid evidence of additional protection, and to the proposal for the re-establishment of the right. As regards the area of industrial design, the Institute shall be put in place to postpone the publication of the registration. In accordance with Article 4 of the proposed amendments, it should be pointed out that a full change in the tariffs for administrative fees has been proposed. In other words, the full change in the text of the tariff itself becomes an integral part of the Law as such. These amendments are mainly made up of amendments to the name of certain legal concepts and all in accordance with the terminology used in the earlier and already mentioned laws, indicating that the amount of the duties themselves in those tariff chapters has not been changed. Finally, the amendments in question and the additions to the Law on Administrative Taxes in the field of intellectual property rights should be supported, which would complete the legislative part of the regulation of intellectual property rights but definitely enable their application as legal work and the conduct of the State Intellectual Property Institute, an institution which directly and indirectly provides for the implementation of legal institutes in practice and regulated laws in the field of intellectual property rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24362	Thank you very much. There are no more registered deputies. Mr. Director, would you like to give a final review? Here you are, director of the state intellectual property office Mr. Željko Topic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24363	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your honourable representative, for the words spoken regarding this proposal. I would just like to say that the Legislative Committee has tabled one amendment to Article 5, and it is nomotechnical in nature and on behalf of the Proposer, we accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24364	Thank you very much. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes in the field of intellectual property rights, emergency procedure, first and second reading, Proposal No. 179. The debate is closed. The amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee was accepted by the Proposer. Please, I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. I find that, with 106 votes for, one abstention, the law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes in the field of intellectual property rights has been passed, as proposed by the Government together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24367	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposal for a law on the provision of savings deposits contains, in fact, the characteristics and features that are important to improve the deposit insurance system, foster consumer confidence and contribute to the overall stability of the financial situation of the state. According to the applicable regulatory system, deposit insurance in the Republic of Croatia is governed by sublegal acts or by the Regulation on the provision of savings deposits adopted by the Law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks. This Law therefore constitutes an improvement in legislation and is a harmonisation of the legislative legislation of the Republic of Croatia with positive gains of the European Union. According to the proposal of this law, the deposit insurance system would be as binding and public as so-called. the ex ante model and would include deposit institutions whose operations are regulated by the Bank Act. This proposal for a law extends the scope of the deposit that enters into the basis of insurance on the assets of citizens on current and gyro-accounts, and extends the exemptions from the application of the system, in accordance with the relevant European Community directives. Furthermore, according to the bill's proposal, the current amount of premium from 0.8% a year would be reduced to 0.5% and it was arranged that when the deposit insurance fund grows to 2.5%, it is now 5% of the total amount of secured deposits, then the premium amount for the current year can be set at a lower level. This Law clearly set a time limit within which the Agency must pay off the secured deposits and it is 90 days from the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings against the Bank. Extraordinary over 90 days, but there's got to be a special agency decision then. as opposed to a valid arrangement where a deadline of 180 days is set in which the Agency must start payment. This proposal is not fully in line with the European Union directives, namely, they are prescribed a level of 20 000-euro secured deposits and in this proposal remains at the current amount of EUR 100 000 deposits, because we do not yet consider that there are conditions for full harmonisation. This provision on the level of secured deposits of the Republic of Croatia at this time is not yet binding to fully comply with the time limits set for the harmonisation of legislation, and will be fully harmonised when the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24368	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to? President of the European Integration Committee, the respected representative of Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24369	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the government. The Committee on European Integrations of the Croatian Parliament discussed this proposal of the Law as an interested working body, and we found that this proposal for a law was covered by the national programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union, therefore, its reference to the Parliament represents the implementation of the obligations under the National Programme. We have also found that, at this stage, this bill partially harmonizes the Croatian legislation in this sector with the acquis of the European Union, and this partial harmonisation primarily related to the coverage of financial institutions where deposits are provided, means banks and savings banks, and not credit-saving associations, and this refers to the coverage of deposits that are secured, the deposits of the population, and not the deposits of small and medium-sized companies as should be legally acquired by the European Union, and this difference in the amount of secured savings which is not yet or secured deposits that are not yet in line with the European Union. However, the Committee found that at this point it is not necessary to go to full compliance with the acquis of the European Union for primarily economic reasons, financial reasons which would cause much harmonisation at this time and therefore accept the reasons for this partial harmonisation. The Committee also pointed out the nomotechnical reference to Article 9 of the Law, which should specify the Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks as an institution responsible for the collection of the premium for secured deposits. The Committee also stresses the need to make sure that full compliance is carried out until the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. With all this in mind, the Committee supported the reference of the bill to first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24370	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, the respected representative of Šima Prtnječa go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24371	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. One note in the beginning that the Committee on Finance also accepted and forwarded it to the Assembly for acceptance. On behalf of the HDZ Club in the introduction, I would like to say immediately that we support and that we will vote in favour of this Bill proposal but several necessary notes that need to be pointed out today because there have been certain doubts as to why two steps in line with European regulations, and why this may be a question of the level of deposit or some other doubt that the banking association is mainly asking us as well as some of those general questions that maybe citizens can ask us. The introduction should therefore remind itself of the unfortunate banking crises that took place in the Croatian state and have caused so many riots in the financial sector and so much trauma that the citizens had. Of course, in order to avoid or reduce such risks, the State formed its own agency in which banks were then obliged to provide and pay certain premiums. Now the bankers are leading around the dilemma whether these premiums are paid in advance, backwards, heights, etc. Because that increases business costs as they say. At this point, however, we believe that it is appropriate to follow this proposal precisely for the reasons we have heard from two previous exhibitors who have also given an expert opinion on these reasons from their point of view. Harmonisation and Europe have made certain harmonisations with its directive, and we, once again, have adopted these harmonisations of the law according to the European Union, also taken steps that will lead to harmonisation, so here we are now in a position to bring these regulations into line with this Directive. The directive prescribes that I do not specify the number of years and the rest prescribed by it, stipulates the obligation to provide savings deposits of 20 000 euros. It is now this doubt that we are saying that we are prescribing to 100,000 kunas, which is not or is part of it, and I am asking the question, we are asking why not and more immediately and go into the final harmonisation of the law. We in HDZ believe that a transitional phase is really needed and that this will not cause some difficulties later in the second step when this amount is harmonised, and possibly if such harmonisation is necessary for other reasons. And that is why we believe that this amount that Europe is prescribing for the time being should be put on hold in some way. But that is why the law in other elements is brought into line with this directive, that is to say, the current legislation applicable in the European Community. Perhaps to highlight the differences of some, at least they were minimal from the current provisions and the current ones that are proposed, because the question is also asked, and here they provide savings stakes in banks and savings banks, and they say, and what about savings-credit cooperatives? It should be recalled that the savings-credited cooperatives with earlier regulations were obliged to comply with their operations, and then no subsequent regulation is needed today and we hold that at this point, the regulation of the regulations of those proposed here is quite sufficient. The Agency shall provide savings in all banks, i.e. deposits, stakes in more, of course all banks up to the amount of 100 thousand kuna and 100%. Now they come forward and let's say new categories don't explain what savings are, etc. He says that saving deposits is the current and the jury accounts, it's a newspaper in one piece, say, a newspaper. And newspapers too, and the risk of paying off those banks that would potentially be in the risk zone of their business is still prescribed, namely that it is then prohibited to pay those who would at that time, so that they would no longer violate the status of a bank that is before bankruptcy, possibly if it were reported, that at that moment there is no more payment that they can't be managed and paid what has been so far. The obligation to pay off if the bank comes into a risky situation, mandatory payment for 3 months or 90 days it's consistent with the present position. And also the amount of compensation that banks are obliged to pay to the agency proposed here in the quarter after a period of 0,125 etc. these banks also raise a certain doubt as to why this amount, why in advance, why not backwards, etc.? However, we still think that at this point we should stay on this and that the Croatian State Agency. In fact, we can put another doubt here. If we were to abstractally ask the citizens if you believe more that banks only provide, then possibly the state after that in a risky business jumps into it or that the state provides you in this way that is proposed, we believe that most citizens would, however, and that this is actually the support of most citizens who would thus support such a provision, and therefore we remain in that provision to do so. It is also defined here in the newly established banks the liabilities of... core capital 33% in the share capital. And we think that if it came to that, that assumption should be harmonised by now. And in the end, we think that this doubt that can possibly be put in place, I look at everything with advantages and disadvantages, and my cost of costing at banks and so on, that when the banks say we're doing well, or the association we're harmonising legislation with European ones, so let's balance the cost of capital that banks have to the agency, then the reverse question can be asked, okay. But what about interest and the cost of capital that you charge to the citizens, which is something differentiated rather than in the headquarters of your banks. Therefore, we hold that this is a correct and acceptable proposal, which is one piece in favour if it can be said to those risky banks that would be in this situation. On the other hand, we absolutely protect citizens, the interests of citizens, and we believe that this bill should be supported in first reading and that we can already get close to Europe in this legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24372	Thank you very much. The SDP Club is a respected representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24373	Mr. Prohaska, the Honorable Secretary of State, Mr. Dalic. This law has more meaning than the opening of the short, but precisely, is spoken of by the secretary of state. At a higher level of regulation, it raises very important issues relating to the security of citizens' deposits, which relate to the stability of the financial system of the state, and it is known how much only when the monetary system is a bit of a mixed problem, and this one is significantly wider. And thirdly, such a proposal and such a law and banks makes an ambience still favourable to their successful action, although they of course have their own variations and their objections to this law. Therefore, the law is more than welcome. Instead of the four articles so far, the Agency Act and the Rules of one decision here are governed by the legislation, so everything I'm talking about. First of all, we at the SDP Club are committed to ensuring that citizens' deposits continue to be protected. We know how important this is from the bad experience we've had. Of course, that's fresh and we all know in the '90s, '96, '97, and by 2000, there were problems, so in 2000 we had 2.5 billion debt to the savings. We did this debt, and that was good, because the state was in charge, and the citizens paid their debt. And now those 2.5 billion return not from taxpayers and their funds, but from the premiums that are based on this basis, which is that this law settles and serves the bonds that we covered those deposits, because citizens always need to be absolutely safe for a certain part of their deposits. Of course, there was a problem because of the pressure of structures, and also the political and sinful structures of the authorities on bankers to turn and privatise and delay their activities and undersecure placements. But it also came about because of the problems of indifference that occurred, which he had quite summed up with the state budget in his 98th explosion, but later on, so on. We hope it doesn't happen again, but this law requires all this together and legal certainty. In addition, this Law adds to the reform of a financial system that has passed quite undetectedly, and a great deal has been done over the last few years. There is a new Law on the National Bank in line with European practice, a new Law on Banks, a new Foreign Exchange Act, today we have payment traffic being carried out in banks as it seems throughout the world in a good way, a function of supervision of financial institutions that is not stressed, which is only to be brought to life, but last year, in the sixth month, all of this has been agreed together, etc. All these major changes are important for the economy, for the financial order and security and ultimately for entrepreneurship and development. We're aware that the security deposit that we're talking about here could have been stronger. For example, here is an extension to current and jury accounts, which is the approximation of the practice of the European Union but is not involving small company accounts. And also, we have kept the level of security here for deposits up to 100,000 kuna but the recommended 90% level of 20,000 euros would allow for the protection of deposits and their insurance and up to 140 thousand kuna. However, we all think that this is a compromise that is now acceptable because there are other reasons why this has not been done that we fully respect. The banks, of course, have their own opinion and their own policy on this. Of course, they have their legitimate interest in being as competitive as possible, having as little cost as possible, making as much profit as possible, etc. but I think that as much as those in this law are facing their proposals which, of course, went in favour of these premiums staying and they were spinning them, and that between the other and the premiums are shrinking, that there is no reason why the banks also do not accept as a good proposal this law at this time, keeping in mind first that the premiums are a reduction of 0.8 and quarterlys to 0.5 and 0.125%, but the fact that further harmonisation and further steps will follow to full harmonisation with the European Union which will then contribute more to the banks and their business, but we are always stressing that it must never be questioned the security of the deposit of citizens and that it must always be double-checked and verified, and we think that it should also be seen here further. There's something else I'd like to add to what Mr. Pritchard mentioned, but I think there's been some inaccuracies. Of course, deposits in banks and housing savings are provided here, not in savings-credit cooperatives and citizens, it should be clear. The savings-credit cooperatives are microfinance institutions and they do not provide deposits and that is the solution of this law and I think it is okay but everyone needs it to be conscious enough. And the savings are a different story. They were brought into a situation where they were turned into banks with references or simply disappear as such, and there are things that are completely clear. To conclude, this is a law of importance for the financial system, for the security of citizens' deposits, for their savings and I think it is necessary in this House and possibly to reach a consensus. In addition, yesterday from the SDP Club, we proposed such a consensus on defence issues. I am taking the opportunity to point out that even some important issues should be more confronted with arguments, more debate and even fiercely but then there should be consensus. Such issues are numerous but especially important, such as how we will ensure our interest in Europe yesterday, which I mentioned even though we are inferior. How we will deal with the Adriatic and its protection, etc. And this law is in the zone of these issues where consensus is to be reached. Unfortunately, these other important issues in which we need a consensus we are unable to bring to the agenda, which is a shame and the government should do so. So the law we think is good, the SDP will support it. He has a broad meaning. In particular, we stress that further consolidation is being made and, in particular, always at all times, the security of citizens' deposits must be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24374	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Next is club IDS representative Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24375	Dear Madam Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the government or the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the House of Representatives! It is a pity that such a law as my predecessors said was not there in 1996, 1997, in the course of bankruptcy by a whole series of Croatian banks. Why? Well, because the existing law or then the law provided only money in savings and not money in our current accounts, or jury accounts. Current accounts through which today in the Republic of Croatia I suppose pay receives more than 80% of people in some way become a mechanism through which they "saving" at the time did not consider savings as notsens, so they could not have been covered by the bankruptcy of a bank by the means of an agency that is otherwise paid. It is so good to mention here this recommendation of the European Union, more specifically the Deposit Insurance Directive, and to guarantee the State Savings Insurance Agency for all deposits at least in a certain amount. It is not regrettable that Article 4 speaks about ensuring an amount of up to only 100 thousand kuna IDS proposes that 150 thousand kuna be made in line with this recommendation from the European Union. I think our financial institutions and states have the strength of one such "additional security". One of these standards about ensuring savings, current accounts, jury accounts is absolutely necessary, logical, it is desirable. I would like to say once again that no funds have been provided in the current and jury accounts of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I still remember what would have happened to the unfortunate year 2000 if by any chance there had been bankruptcy or that it had failed to preserve the Istrian Bank. It doesn't matter that the bank then changed its owner, yet the new owner has completely rescheduled it, but something important is next. This is probably one of the few major banks in the Republic of Croatia for which the state has not singled out any kunas from the state budget, unlike Rijeka Bank, Business Bank, I do not know Splitska, Dubrovnik, etc. And what I'm saying is that by any chance that bank broke down, went bankrupt, whatever we call it, the citizens would lose about 700 million kuna directly and the state through a form of secured savings somewhere around 800 million kuna. That would be a terrible thing to say. At that time, the State guaranteed the amounts or amounts of up to 100 thousand kuna deposits in savings but not for amounts above that. And what's most important is not the amounts in the current accounts that are now or the jury accounts. Let's just imagine those people who've been saving their lives for the black days so if one of these crashes happened to them, let's imagine those who should've gotten paid through current accounts and left out without everything, let's just imagine that I don't know the pensioners who got the Italian pensions, deposited in that bank, and finally, left out of everything or those who live "out of the minus" on the current accounts. They'd all run out of shit. Secondly, the Rijeka Bank, it's been remanded twice in my court. The first time there was in 1996, the second time in 2000 or 2001 just before the sale of Erste Bank. Today, some individuals in that bank are being tried but the IDS then and now insist on the government's intervention because, by any chance, if the bank had broken down the river economy, the people of Rijeka would have lost 3 billion kuna and through the form of savings insurance, the state would have to allocate about 3 billion kuna. Therefore, once again, this Law should be supported, and the Law itself should further convince citizens of the security of the banking system in the Republic of Croatia. However, it would be opportunised to replace this Article 4 which speaks of the provision of deposits up to 100 000 kuna with a sum of 150 000 kuna. Not once, at the IDS Club, we said that we opposed the sale of rescheduled Croatian banks. Rehabilitation of the banking system cost the Republic of Croatia about 25 billion kuna. If in the 1990s or the second half of the 90s we could issue 25 billion kuna bonds for the recovery of our failed banks, many of which are still being paid. We assume at the IDS Club that today, in 2005, it is possible to access debt returns for the reason that it amounts to less than 25 billion kuna according to the inscriptions that appear in the media and on the other hand, the gross social product today is 10 billion kuna and 15 billion kunas larger than that period. What else did we get from selling banks? We've got security. In addition to the Rijeka Bank run by Landes Bank, no bank has broken down, I am not talking here clearly about savings credit cooperatives, for example. ... banks, interest rates fell, loans became more accessible to Croatian citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, however, Croatia has started to become heavily in debt, we can even say that these banks have become the main generator of external dependence on foreign funds for the payment of the Republic of Croatia, as huge imports have spurred, as in this space almost nothing or products are produced or paid. And the banks, mainly through the pension system or funds, started to take over, or they began to take over other than that financial sovereignty and so on. the economic substrate of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the rescheduled banks, according to the IDS Club, should not have clearly sold but should have kept them in their possession but should have made it possible for the competition in these markets to open up these institutions from nothing, such as Raiffeisen Bank, Austria Bank, HVB which later took over the Split Bank and so on. Since clearly, Croatia is not exporting anything or very little as a guarantee of external debt payments increasingly becoming a savings that is abroad, and therefore the state must guarantee its citizens all types of deposits, I stress all types of deposits. I do not believe that at this time in the Republic of Croatia is possible some bankruptcy of some of the Croatian banks, no, in this way should not occur but once again I will tell the deposits of Croatian citizens and mainly Croatian small economies as well as citizens clearly should be provided. I don't want to convince the agony of those little savings banks from Flacius further where many have lost their entire life savings, we have sailors who have been saving their whole lives, they've lost 20 years of their work, whether it's naive, whether it's because they've been led astray or cheated, it's quite no matter, however, the tragedy is that they can no longer get their money. And that's why I'm going to say once again, you should support this approach and in my court maybe you should consider that this savings credit cooperatives in some way if they exist we provide a higher level of our citizens who might find themselves, don't let God in some unwanted situation run out of money. I'm going to tell our citizens once again that they probably didn't know or the vast majority of them didn't know that the state didn't or that their savings didn't provide current accounts and jury accounts. Finally, I don't know what to say, let's try the Post Office Bank, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Croatia's insurance to create an embryo of a future larger Croatian national bank, this could be one big project of this government, however, I believe that small or all legal persons should be provided to certain amounts and not just the jury accounts of natural persons. I think that, in that sense, it should also go in that direction and that there should be a future amendment to this Deposit Insurance Act. To be honest, it should be acknowledged that this law is a major improvement in relation to the existing regulation, unfortunately this Law does not give an answer to those who have lost money saving and trusting in the savings credit system of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, they are no longer able to help today, but it should be acknowledged that this Law is a fundamental change for the better and so much to be welcomed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24376	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The Club of the Croatian Peasants' Party, MP Ante Markov, is next. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24377	Dear Madam President, honourable representatives and representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. It is unquestionable that the ambience and atmosphere in which financial intermediaries operate today is almost all of which are incomparably better and I would say can be assessed by a good estimate compared to the situation that was seven, eight years ago. The relative security of the savings is also significantly improved from the simple fact that in the Croatian financial sector, especially financial intermediaries are maximum consolidated and that a system of financial market has simply been developed and that the financial sector has experienced one of its consolidational and up-and-coming moments in the economy, and that this is being followed by the worse and opened up by so on. the consumer era in which the financial sector, given its role, wanted to enable citizens and businesses to use these funds as soon as possible. Of course, since the real sector was unable to fully meet and achieve the role it was meant to play, this is to ensure that these same funds for such consumption, that debt occurred and that there was an increase in consumption, and clear and public consumption. However, it should not be regretted that the financial sector has managed to consolidate itself but should do everything possible to bring the real sector to those levels that are at the level of the needs of this society. Since 1998, when the application, i.e. the obligation to provide savings, when a kind of crisis of financial intermediaries occurred, primarily banks, when five major banks went into bankruptcy and ended up in bankruptcy proceedings, Glumina Bank, City, Commercial and County Bank, then came the hardest time that practically took place and when there was a need to try first and foremost through the Daba institution to find a response to such a situation, on the one hand to resuscitate, on the other hand, to depreciate those who held their money in those banks. By the end of 2003, nearly 3.7 billion kuna was needed by the beginning of 2004 to pay off those obligations that he had under the rules of that time. It is clear that all these funds were not able to withdraw from the premiums themselves because the premiums were insufficient to cover one such deficit that followed the financial chaos in financial intermediaries. Is it then and how the role of the state and the role of the agency is achieved? It is achieved in two directions but what is to be remembered today when we talk about a stable financial sector as much as Croatia, how much has society paid for today's financial stability? Of course, it is expensive and that all the comments of citizens, including here, are often said so and so much money is allocated to the resolution of the banking system of financial intermediaries, and they have then moved into the hands of the foreign owner and thus is held that on one side the system has been consolidated, and on the other side, it is believed that this consolidation could also end with the ownership of domestic entrepreneurs, domestic companies or domestic natural persons. Of course that eternal doubt remains. She won't be exhausted today. It will keep repeating itself as property is not a permanent category. Clearly, it goes from one to another depending on supply and demand. What is important today is to say in the changed conditions and circumstances in which all financial intermediaries act, sometimes mentioned several times but it has passed over and almost everyone has said: Well, the banks are insured at this point. The savings that remained have gone into the system of banks, but the existing Banks Act is unfortunately not fully in line with the European Union directives for the simple reason why it should be called the Financial Institutions Act. It is therefore necessary to bring together all those institutions operating on the financial market, which are not only banks but also so-called lower forms of financial operations, lower financial institutions that have contributed in many countries and countries of the European Union in many ways to strengthening small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, strengthening that targeted economy, and this very institution also have to find its place in the new law that I hope will come as soon as possible, which should bring all these financial institutions together and thus create one and cover the overall picture of that financial sector because it is not good regardless of what figures it is done to save-credit cooperatives and other lower forms of financial institutions that exist in Croatia today are not covered by this law. So they don't have, they don't have a level of security savings, and they care about those citizens and those layers of society that unfortunately can't get financial support anywhere. Why do people go to savings-credit cooperatives? Why are they going to the so-called Suspected financial institutions? Why do pensioners owe on the basis of these calls that you can see when you're waiting for a tram? Well, only because they don't have the opportunity to get credit in banks and in those financial organisations that we're discussing here today, which they need, maybe even for life, maybe for disease and for anything. Because you see there it says between 50 and 10 grand. It seems funny to someone, but a very large number of our citizens today, and unfortunately, it's hard to judge, but it's using exactly the team, I'm going to say by suspicious means. But society and financial, the financial system in our country simply doesn't give us the right to leave it to the speculators who put our citizens in a position that just for 10,000 kunas they became poor and addicts. And that is exactly what the main part of the European Union directive applies to the prohibition of even such opportunities as may arise. This is why the Financial Institutions Act, which must regulate this area is very, very necessary for Croatia as well. To go back to the bill itself. I also think that given the new circumstances that have occurred and that the current banks are fully consolidated, there is no reason not to respect that level of EUR 20 000. Of course, someone will say if there is a bank bankruptcy at the time, that obligation is taken by the state or agency because there is not enough money in the Fund itself, but given the circumstances and given the new environment and also the security of the financial sector, we think there is almost no reason not to accept that one norm that would allow our citizens, as well as everyone else, to apply that norm of up to 20 thousand euro. Because on the other hand, we've also reduced the premiums to these banks that are still in the system when you're looking at who in this country makes the most money? Who are these structures? I'm not talking about individuals. Is that the tourism industry? Is that the agricultural industry? Is that the processing industry? Is that a seaship? It's not. Financial institutions are the ones most earning in this country, which benefit most from what society and every citizen has contributed to consolidate the sector. So we cut extra premiums. And yet, we will allow them to cut premiums because the system is financially stable and they will be able to reduce these premiums and then there is no reason not to ask for a certain other substitution on the side of what is required of them not to regulate either. And there's really no reason for that. Of course, here when it is mentioned that it is worth and understandable to expect these financial institutions to behave the way they behave in a host country. So in their own country and in terms of how they deal with clients and in terms of the amount of interest or interest they make and in terms of how they do it. And in terms of service and public needs. Let us not forget that these same banks that have their own, their own property in our banks, they treat both the public sector and the public sector needs. Therefore, we must ask all those who have come to us, I would say, they are welcome all, but we must ask them to behave as they do in their own home because this is the only way we prove in Croatia that we are a European country and that we are a European people, and not only are they telling us what we should do because when they come here, they themselves are not acting the way they behave in their own country. This way, of course, by wanting to praise this law because it is indeed a step forward and in terms of regulatory approximation of the euro standards and European legislation, but also with regard to the real strengthening of financial security, the financial market in Croatia and thus supporting it, but thus saying that we have the opportunity to establish these small, small norms and to show that our sovereignty is not something because sovereignty is both financial and legal, sovereignty is all that touches our relationship with the world. I don't think there's any reason why these things can't be fixed. I think that we can all do this together exactly what our colleague said that this law has no reason not to bring a consensus and that it represents a strong message for everyone and for the stability of the financial market in Croatia, but also for our responsibility to our own country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24378	Thank you very much, dear colleague. There's no more club MPs reported. We're going to an individual debate. The first is counterpart Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24379	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I absolutely support the proposed law, and for three basic reasons that we've had a lot of opportunities to hear about before, and I'm going to try to sum it up. It is obvious that this is about a higher level of regulation than the problem itself, so it is now precisely defined by law. Second, in terms of the implementation of the principle of security, we can absolutely say that it is a higher level of security. And the third thing is not what is said unsettlingly or less important ad is that the specified deadlines and the method of payment that, in this sense, legal solutions represent and the novelty is those 90 days as the time limit in which payment is therefore necessary. Only in exceptional cases within an additional 90 days. Since it is the same area that we are actually harmonising with the provisions of legislation within the European Community countries, and in this sense the resolution and the law itself should be supported in an absolute manner. In that context, it may be possible to comment on those parts that are not entirely or fully in line with the provisions of the laws or regulations as they are in countries or in most European Union countries. And we've had plenty of opportunities to hear in today's debate. So it's mostly viscose because according to this r action, of course, that's 100,000 kuna, and that amount is certainly less than 20 thousand euros, which is the amount that's determined by documents that, in the sense of total harmonisation, should be translated into our law. But we also had a chance to hear about the reasons why it didn't happen. I wouldn't repeat those agrumnets. But it is also the fact that today we are in the sphere of this banking financial business at the level that the amount of 100 000 kuna guaranteed in terms of payment to citizens and whether the funds are deposited or found in current accounts in certain banks. So that's the amount of funds guaranteed in terms of the application of this bill for payment. What we may or may not have been able to hear is at least not in terms of some larger reasons, which is why this particular relationship between the National Bank with its powers in relations with the Ministry and with respect to the amount of premiums or to the rates we had the opportunity to hear, so in this observed period we actually did not increase rather than decrease. So let's say that logic conditionally stated income, under these items is reduced from one old one and on the other hand it is increasing and these economic risks in relation to the insurance itself are in a sense increasing. It is concluded that I am no longer bound by this law to support it absolutely. It represents in normat's sense a single improvement, one quality solution one higher degree of security for our citizens in the first row of our banks, the amount of these insurance funds is 100 thousand kuna. And it should, of course, be pointed out that these deepose insurance standards are what they are, so what they are prescribed by law. That those in terms of height have not reached the level we have in the countries of the European Union. But that by the time Croatia joins the European Union itself, I too will not doubt and these standards will be met in a way that is identical or that we have the same legal regulation and therefore the same degree of security in terms of savings we have here in Croatia and in the countries of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24380	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Next up is Representative Marko Širac, please choose a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24381	Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. We already have a very long tradition of deposit insurance, and the 1993 bank dealing with sea savings is regulated to provide savings savings savings to the state-owned institution for the insurance of savings deposits in banks up to the amount prescribed by the minister. As of next year, i.e. In 1994, a law was established by the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, I think it's a lot of luck compared to everything that's happened with our banks' operations in those years. It's a specialized financial institution that provides savings in banks and savings, and implements bank recovery. Banks and savings banks are obliged to provide the agency with savings stakes up to the height of the decision by the minister and to pay the agency a premium for the insurance of savings deposits. The Prime Minister's height and payment deadlines are governed by the general act on the basis of the criteria approved by the Croatian National Bank, in agreement with the finance minister, taking into account the state of banks. Insurance of deposits was initiated on the basis of a decision by the director of the agency. And by adopting the regulation on January 8, 1998. And that's when we've been in the banks since, we've been provided with savings stakes in the amount of 100 000 kuna in 100%, so that banks over which bankruptcy proceedings have been initiated are subject to regulations that mattered on the day of bankruptcy over the bank. It's a very important fact that I'm going back to in the course of my exposure. At the end of the 1990s and early 2000s, these several of our banks and savings banks were unable to operate anymore and a bankruptcy procedure was initiated. The funds collected were not enough to settle the savings provided, so the State budget was used for these purposes and the resolution of banks. As far as I'm aware, the savings alone needed to be secured by around 3 billion and 700 million kuna, and a much larger amount for the recovery of banks. In the meantime, all our banks have been rehabilitated, consolidated and privatized, except for the Post Office Bank. According to the Croatian National Bank's report, our banks are doing very profitable business, the rest or profits achieved in the past year go 15%, so I'm very surprised that the representatives of the association of our banks are trying and taking measures to free themselves from these savings obligations, and we all know together that this is actually the only guarantee for the insurance of the funds of our citizens who have invested their money in these banks and with which these same banks are then continuing to operate. In the light of the Law, the Proposer points out that the adoption of this Act aims to improve the deposit insurance system and to bring Croatia's legislation into line with European Union legislation in the area of deposit insurance. For economic reasons, only partial compliance with Directive 9414 of the European Union from 1994 has been carried out with this proposal, so that full compliance will be carried out until the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. In accordance with the principles set out in the Directive, this Law regulates the provision of deposits in banks, i.e. the money of the citizens deposited on bank accounts based on contracts and cash deposits, on cash deposits or on savings accounts, and on current and gyro accounts, with a view to protecting citizens' deposits in the event of bank bankruptcy. This is a major advance, because so far only savings have been secured, but they are now secured, and the funds found in citizens' accounts would now be secured. Deposit insurance will be conducted by the State Deposit Insurance Agency, as has been the case so far, is the resolution of banks. Unfortunately, the proposal is for the secured deposit to be just 100,000 whether it's on one or more bank accounts. Therefore, in the coming time, we expect and hope that this will meet the standards set out in the Directive. And now something about what I can't possibly accept in the bill's proposal, which is a calculation of interest on secured deposits. Article 5(2) is amended as opposed to the principle of Directive 9419 of the European Community, under which banks subject to bankruptcy proceedings are subject to the rules applicable on the date of the opening of bankruptcy against the bank, and the provisions of Article 5(2) should therefore be otherwise formulated and regulated in accordance with the principles of the Directive. We cannot protect in this respect only the interests of banks, interests must be protected in the first place by citizens' interests, their savings stakes in banks. And as proposed, the citizens would be seriously damaged. It is also correct that the proposal for a law also lays down deadlines in which the deposit will have to be paid and that period of 90 days from the date on which the bankruptcy proceedings are initiated. In order for the Agency to be able to comply with these obligations, whether the bill regulates that banks must pay 3% of their underlying capital to the Deposit Insurance Fund and pay 0.120% of the average balance of secured deposits in the last quarter during each three quarters. It's a significant downturn in terms of those commitments that banks have had so far, because it was actually 5%, and this one, now it would be, eat 4. When funds paid to the Deposit Insurance Fund exceed 2% of the total amount of secured deposits in all banks on 31 December, the Agency may reduce the annual premium of secured deposits with the previous consent of the National Bank. Of course, in the meantime the Agency can...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24382	My colleague, I must warn you in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24383	Here, I'm done right now. The Agency may, with the Fund's resources, dispose of the provisions proposed here and, in the end, point out that penalties for the violations of banks and responsible persons are submitted at a modest level and should be significantly increased for those offences. I support the adoption of this Law, or that this Law should be directed to a second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24384	Thank you very much, colleague. Next, here, I apologize. We have one replica. Comrade Pecek, replica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24385	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to replicate to Mr. Shirtz, because I actually think what he said was a really big progress by writing this law, it's just not true. For what? Because we've had a solution to 100,000 kuna for citizens who've had savings in banks so far. However, this is not even too much in line with the recommendations from the European Union, as it writes in this second section called - The compliance of the rules with the recommendations. What makes us different? And it matters. We differ by the fact that in the European Union, it is EUR 20,000 or HRK 150,000. This is one important difference, and even more important difference is that we only provide savings or deposits for citizens until we talk about businesses, and precisely European recommendations, and practice tells us how to take care of craftsmen and businesses that also have deposits in banks. As it seemed in Slavonia, we know best through examples of Vukovar Bank, County Bank, City Bank, Cibalia Bank, where many companies have lost their deposits and have failed. There are also other individuals called craftsmen. This area has never recovered precisely because of bank bankruptcy, i.e. because of the collapse of deposits, and until today the state has not responded correctly to this phenomenon. Of course, even after this law, which is supposed to comply with the European Union, it will remain exactly the same. In case the bank goes bankrupt, corporate deposits and craftsmen will fail. So progress has not been formally coordinated, but we haven't essentially done anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24386	Thank you very much, colleague. Representative Širac has the right to reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24387	In my presentation, I didn't speak so widely about how you replicated me. I have merely stated that the progress in this regard of savings insurance has been made in that section relating to the insurance of savings deposits held on the current jury accounts of citizens. Of course, he would be as happy as you if this secured savings covered a small economy, but we expect that the next changes will do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24388	Thank you very much. A colleague, Mato Arlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24389	Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I must say that I was surprised by the suggestion that this law is going according to an emergency procedure, the more it tries to justify itself as if it were a bill that is in line with the European Union. And of course, if that were the case, then the Rules of Procedure would have to follow the urgent procedure, but then it was Article 161 and not Article 159 to which it was called for to explain the emergency procedure. Therefore, it is obvious that the promoter did not take care of all this. The second is the fact itself, the substance of this proposal for a law that does not comply with the relevant European Union directive, because the relevant directive requires that up to 20 000 euro be guaranteed, i.e. to secure savings and deposits up to 20 000 euros. And this proposal remained with the old proposal at 100,000 kuna. Therefore, it is obvious that it is only two-thirds of what is prescribed and the European directive. Of course, craftsmen and craftsmen, i.e. small businesses and small entrepreneurs, have been omitted, which should also be reviewed and brought into line with the European Union Directive in any case. Thirdly and very interestingly, the bill does not answer one of the fundamental questions. Here, the agency, and in particular the fund as part of the agency, should provide funds for the payment of deposits at this guaranteed level if we come into a situation to open a bankruptcy against the bank or a housing cooperative, a residential cooperative. At the same time, the fact is ignored that the Government of the Republic of Croatia signed a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, which provides that a jury account will be abolished by the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks. If that is true, in fact, how that agency and its fund will be able to guarantee when it loses an important element for legal personality, so that it can guarantee that part. Then it should obviously guarantee the state budget rather than the agency... when that part happens. Because we must not forget that this obligation before the IMF is accepted in such a way as to enable practical and control of the International Community whether it will be implemented, or the International Monetary Fund. Thirdly, I would also have to point out, this introduces the possibility that practically the deposit fee allows the fund, i.e. the agency to at least appear on the securities market, buy and sell securities. In addition to the purpose set out in paragraph 2 of this Article, they may be used to purchase other assets, but the possibility of purchase of other securities referred to in paragraph 6 of this Article shall also be provided for in the consent of the Ministry of Finance. And now suddenly there's something that's unusual when it comes to these agencies, such sui-generis, special purposes in financial business, that practically the Ministry of Finance and the State through this agency can trade on the financial market, and at the same time there's not an issue that opens up, and I'm going to open it right now as a fifth. And this is the question that the Agency can not only supervise banks in the part of the business with deposits secured... of this law, but that it can give certain opinions, i.e. certain mandatory instructions which may appear in relation to such business. And now the question is actually what is the relationship between this law and the law on banks and what is the relationship between the Agency and the National Bank. This law has not been settled, and I must admit that the Law on Banks has not resolved these issues either, and that is a question that will be quite serious and quite interesting, the more the fifth question opens. Here it is possible that in the event of bankruptcy, some money should be paid, but it is not seen here and it is not predicted at what time the bankruptcy procedure should be completed and, by the way, let me make a little comparison here. In fact, in the area of Slavonia and Baranja, only Slavonska Banka still exists as a domicile bank, although it has become a bank owned by foreign financial capital. And all the other banks went into bankruptcy by similar laws, and it's amazing that some of them have been bankrupt for three, four or more years. For example, the New Bank is almost four years old and slightly more bankrupt. At the same time, there's more money in his accounts than there are about 200 million kunas somewhere, than there is a need, let's say that he's costing a whole small savings or savings. The question is actually, why isn't the Agency doing its part of the job? Why doesn't he end the bankruptcy process? Why not enable the Croatian economy in Slavonia and Baranja to actually get a business bank that will monitor it and what will solve this issue? Why are we passing the law to determine only the height to which it will be guaranteed, and we are actually opening up the possibility that, at the same time, by a specific sui generis, financial engineering would be said with the support of the state, this sort of thing is done. I don't think that's a good thing and that this issue should be resolved, as should be resolved along the way and the issue of the County Bank which is in a similar situation. Because this doesn't make any sense to open up bankruptcy, and to actually enable these same banks to continue to work but no longer under the control of the Croatian National Bank, no longer under the Banks Act, but actually under the control of the Deposit Insurance Agency and the resolution of banks that appears as the owner and which practically acts as the banking normal of any house but with special conditions and criteria and special responsibilities to everything else. And they're gonna pay, they want me to or they don't want to save. It's mostly a rather interesting question here, something else, you know, that the Agency is given public authority. And we can accept that. However, it should be specified by the Constitution exactly what are all public powers and what powers have the character of public authority when agencies perform on behalf of third parties and to what extent it is responsible for that part. And what procedure is he conducting? We don't have that part in this law, and in such a situation, I'm afraid that instead of speeding up the resolution of serious problems that can arise in banking and where things have to be solved, I can actually make it possible to further, if I may say so, what no one wants, and that is, the question of deposit manipulation, and ultimately the form of financial engineering. The Agency may extend and extend the period by itself for a period of 90 days to 90 days. Well, now, I'm asking you who wouldn't have such a position that he can actually determine for himself when he'll meet his obligation and don't account for it to anyone else. Why are we putting this agency in such a position? I personally think that this law, such as is not good, that it needs to be seriously completed, that at the same time it needs to be seen in fact which is not only legal but also subjective position and ultimately the financial position of this Agency. And also, in particular, the question of what about the fund. Because there is too little indication here, except that the fund can do what it can do, except that it can be established within the Agency and, among other things, deal with deposits and money to secure deposits on the financial market, with the consent of the Ministry of Finance. I think the finance minister is not and should not be in charge of dealing with this issue but something else, and should be kept in mind that he is in charge of the budget, not this issue. Thank you very much, for this reason I will not be able to support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24390	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. There are no more registered deputies. Does Secretary of State Martina Dalic want to say something at the end? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24391	I'd like to say a few words and possibly additional explanations for a solution in this law. We've been having a lot of discussion about the amount. 20,000 euros is the amount prescribed by the European Directive. However, I would like to draw attention therefore that there is also a provision that says that it is possible and acceptable to account for 90% of this amount of 20,000 euros. However, retaining an amount of 100 thousand kuna, except for considering the provisions of the European Directive, has, in fact, a certain economic logic behind it, so let me explain. The deposit insurance systems and deposit insurance schemes shall aim to protect those who, to the least extent, can assess different risks in the banking system due to their existence, i.e. in the overall financial system due to the existence of so-called ‘indicator’. Asymmetry of information. However, at the same time as the deposit schemes are introduced, they can cause the opposite effect. It's just that people forget about the risks associated with and keeping deposits in banks, because these risks as much as we want the financial system to be stable and as much as we do in that direction, they always exist. The increase in the actual amount of such amounts is then, in essence, exempts individuals from the obligation to consider and take into account risks. However, given the strength of our economy, given the income per capital, we believe that as far as the security of citizens and their deposits are concerned, a much more significant expansion of the base and inclusion in the current account and gyro account scheme is concerned than an increase in the amount, because in our cases, the question is where is the fine line between the savings deposit and the investment role. Therefore, since the process of harmonisation allows us to do so, since Croatia does not have to coordinate at the moment, such a solution has been chosen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24392	Thank you very much to the secretary of state. We have a correction, I wanted to announce the good news, but here's not going. Here you go, pal Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24393	I have to correct that the issue of our economy's power regarding deposit insurance, which banks would have to provide, is actually very much related to this law. Let's not forget that over 90% of the ownership stakes in our banks are in the hands of foreigners. Therefore, the issue of relations between the owners of our banks should be discussed in relation to what needs to be ensured and protected in such a situation is not only related to our economy but to a much wider issue and should therefore apply what applies to these foreigners in their dominant countries, which is 20,000 euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24394	Thank you very much, colleague. We have a lunch break until 3:00, then it's a vote. It's a good run for everyone, and Mother Arlovic's happy birthday.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-05-0.u24395	And finally the proposal of the Deposit Insurance Act, first reading of P.Z.E. No. 184. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The proposal of the Deposit Insurance Act shall be adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final proposal for the Law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. I find that unanimously with 107 votes for the proposed conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue our work at the 11th session of the Croatian Parliament. On the agenda according to order - The final draft law amending and supplementing the law on the lease of business space, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 177; The legislator is the Government. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure, which combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate, carried out by the Committees of Law, the Justice of the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, local and regional self-government. And economics, development and restoration. The report you received at the session. I'm asking Justice Minister Vesna Scare Ozbolt to further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
