ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25611	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ladies and gentlemen representatives of the Croatian Parliament, it is my pleasure to present the 2005 budget on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That satisfaction is greater because this is the first time that the draft budget is presented for the next three years in advance. I am convinced that you will agree with me that this is a big newspaper that shows the government's ability and responsibility in bringing the most important document for the Croatian economy and for all Croatian citizens. The 2005 budget and the 2006 and 2007 budget projections reflect the government's clear and unequivocal objectives and show the continued fulfillment of those promises and guarantees that we both made in Croatia to the democratic community and our coalition partners a year ago. Moreover, the 2005 budget shows the Croatian government's determination to implement a sustainable fiscal and overall economic policy that supports Croatia's macroeconomic stability and its path towards European integration. And when we talk about macroeconomic stability in Croatia, then we should also give recognition to all previous governments that have been working on it since 1993, which have managed to preserve the macroeconomic stability of Croatia, which is a prerequisite for every country's development. The deficit of the state budget and consolidated central state is therefore lower than the deficit expected in this year, and compared to last 2003 the deficit is lower by 2.3% points, which is a significant and respectable adjustment and for economies much stronger and much stronger than Croatia. In this place, however, it should be pointed out that the conditions in which the 2005 budget was made are better than the beginning of the year when we worked for the first three months, made a budget for this year 2004. At that time, we made the budget under the difficult circumstances of slowing economic growth during the second half of 2003 and under the circumstances of the unexpectedly high financial commitments inherited from 2003 that had to be respected in the budget for this current year 2004. Today, after 330 days of work of this government, we can point out that Croatia is recording an economic growth rate of 4%, that for the first time in the last 10 years exports are growing faster than imports and that is something to be welcomed and that indeed all of those in the economy to us in the government, to Croatian citizens, can be satisfied because we have turned all together in Croatia this negative trend that has been following us for years that imports are growing faster than exports. According to statistics in the first nine months, exports grew somewhere around 16%, imports around 7%. Inflation was held at 2% level and what motivated us specifically and for further work in this sense is that for the first time in 4.5 years, the number of unemployed fell below 300 thousand a month, now rose slightly more than 300 thousand again. In general, we can say that there is a record of the dynamicization of economic activity, and there is also one information. Industrial production growth was greater than 3.5% in the first nine months. The fiscal adjustment we are carrying out through the 2005 budget is the result of the inherited high and then fast-growing foreign debt that we have successfully contained in this year precisely thanks to responsible fiscal policy. I remind you that the foreign debt in 2003 was raised by the entire 8.2 billion US dollars and that by representing the 2004 budget, I said that this government would not continue to increase or that we would do everything to contain such a devastating growth of external debt and its rapid pace, which also confirms its growth in the first 9 months of only 2.8 billion, 2.8, that means 2 billion and 800 million dollars, which includes private companies and banks. And when we take it with that 8.2 growth last year in the first nine months of 2.8, then we see how much we've done to make growth, the amazing growth of external debt restrained, and for the first time in September it's even reduced by $100 million. The 2005 budget should be implemented under the circumstances of the enhanced economic activity and the continuation of the macroeconomic stability I was already talking about. In the draft budget, the government had to face certain restrictions and slower expenditure growth, but it did not give up on meeting its objectives. Five are ladies and gentlemen of significant and equally important budget targets for 2005. First, already stressed support for macroeconomic stability and slowdown, further slowing down external debt growth through the reduction of government budget deficits and the consolidation of public finances. Moreover, the reduction in deficits will in general ensure lower pressure on the growth of interest rates or the price of capital from which all economic operators will benefit, since this will slow down the trend in the growth of interest rates that has been present since the beginning of 2003. Secondly, support for economic growth is provided in several ways. The 2005 budget creates the conditions for fiscal and financial responsible implementation of significant infrastructure projects. In 2005, investment in HATS of 4 billion kuna is planned. In HC, Croatian roads, 2 billion kuna and in Croatian waters a billion and 700 million kuna. In addition, the budget plans to finance reconstruction and programmes related to refugee returns and the return of assets with about a billion kuna. For capital investments and support to Croatian railways, nearly 2.9 billion kuna has been allocated, and for the development of the island and their better integration with the land 230 million kuna. In addition to financing large infrastructure projects, financial conditions are also created for greater support to small and medium-sized enterprises, in the amount and support of shipbuilding intended for 460 million kuna. The government's strategic economic objective is to encourage economic growth on the principles of fostering domestic production and exports, and to encourage foreign direct investment in production. Foreign direct investment in production will also directly stimulate healthy economic growth darkened by production rather than just consumption. In addition, these foreign direct investments will boost growth and employment and trade exports, which is crucial for reducing trade deficits and better living standards for Croatian citizens. In the 2005 budget, the government allocated 428 million kuna to the promotion of exports through various programmes and activities. Third, aware that the still high unemployment rate, although it is the lowest in the last 5 years, is a major problem, the fight against unemployment, or the fight for higher employment, is also one of the government's priority goals. The 2005 budget therefore reflects and supports employment promotion programmes in the outflow of more than 500 million kuna. In this budget, the government also allocated considerable funds to increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, and thus 200 million kunas were allocated to the economy and entrepreneurship in the budget rather than in 2004 and totaling around 775 million kuna. The competitiveness of the economy is also increasing by increasing the quality of future labour, through new knowledge, and this is what we want to join modern European trends, knowledge-based economies, or as this already becomes one general place in Europe of the English syntagma knowledge-based economies. In this respect, the Government recognises the need to encourage and invest in knowledge of which 350 million kuna is guaranteed more than this year. Of course, that we would all like to be even more but the trend of the increase will also be next year, and all the years to come but certainly in relation to and in line with the possibilities of the state. The fourth priority, and perhaps for many things, is the first social sensitivity and responsibility of the budget that is seen in increased pension allocations, for defenders, births. As well as opening new programmes for socially endangered categories. In line with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme, the budget encourages demographic renewal, and makes the first step in the fight against the demographic devastion of Croatian society. After 1 July this year, the level of birth benefits returned to the level that existed in 2000 increased. In all for these purposes, total for all these purposes that I spoke about in the 2005 budget, about 2.8 - two billion and 800 million kunas of which a billion and 600 million for children's allowance, a billion and 200 million kuna for maternity benefits will be allocated. The fairer treatment of Croatian defenders and the return of their dignity is the debt we all have towards them. And those who didn't feel sorry for themselves when our country needed it the most. Despite the limited possibilities of the budget in this budget but also in the next budgets, the rights of Croatian defenders belonging to them are recognised, and I welcome the fact that there is a consensus on the new Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families. In addition to pension expenditure and permanent rights of defenders, it should be said that the total amount is about 3.5 billion kuna. Finally, the budget clearly supports the authorities of the state administration responsible for strengthening Croatia's ability to get closer to the European Union. The European Integration Ministry is the ministry with a relatively large increase in the budget. Up by 38.9%. Almost 40%. Aware of the importance of political and economic diplomacy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will have 497 million kunas at its disposal, as these two ministries must continue to play that important role in promoting Croatian interests and I hope that our interests are in the rapid accession of a group of advanced countries, i.e., trans-European and transatlantic integrations. Increasing the efficiency of the legal and legislative system is one of the most significant elements of Croatia's successful integration into European integration. Therefore, an adequate amount of 1.97% is provided, so a billion 970 million kunas available to the justice ministry. The constraints we have faced in budgeting are due to the real situation in the Croatian economy. The government therefore included both the social and development components in the budget in the best possible way. I would point out that the government's economic policy is aimed at increasing the standards of Croatian citizens as well as at increasing economic activity that confirms this budget. The government made a significant step towards establishing macroeconomic stability through fiscal adjustment in 2004 and 2005 to dynamic economic growth. The reality of the assumptions on which the 2005 budget rests creates a basis for quality fiscal and economic policy in the coming years. At the same time, the government's ability to implement those promises, despite significant financial constraints, and expectations of the Croatian public, demonstrates the credibility of this government and our support partners, in fulfilling our obligations to Croatian society. The 2005 budget therefore creates a real atmosphere, a real basis for further strengthening Croatia. In 2007, we want to reduce the deficit of the state budget to below 3%, which is consistent with the masseuse criteria. An ambition that has no doubt is extremely large and brave, an ambition that not many countries that have yet to meet today are members of the European Union. There are several member states whose deficit is above the master's famous monetary union border. And if we all succeed in this together, it will be evidence of ladies and gentlemen that, despite the incomparably difficult situation of Croatia than those which have had other transition countries which, fortunately, have not had war and all that the war has brought from direct and indirect damages that are measured in tens and hundreds of billions of kunas, that these countries that have not, fortunately, had a war, and today they have become members of the European Union, that Croatia has done what would be called Kunstick, so one really jump is solving the problems that are derivating from war, but by catching a train with those Central European countries that have used peace in their country over the past 14 years, that they can peacefully cross the transition process. If we all meet this goal together, and this budget in 2005 is the second big step, I repeat, the first thing that the former governments have done in keeping macroeconomic stability in Croatia, this is the second step and if we continue with such a policy, I think we can be a step in this segment with advanced European countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25612	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25613	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I hope you'll allow me a few minutes more than 11 minutes. So, I am pleased to say that for the first time, the government is proposing the 2005 draft budget and the 2006 and 2007 budget projections. What are the basic macroeconomic assumptions for the adoption of this Proachu? So we expect real growth of the gross domestic product of 4.4% and inflation of 2.5%. The main starting points for our budget projection in 2005 are supported by the good economic activities achieved during this year. First. Gross domestic product is growing at rates higher than those left at the end of last year. So, the end of last year in the fourth quarter of the gross domestic product recorded a slight stagnation, and even a slight trend fell, and so it was the first two months of this year, then in the third month it recorded the trend of growth and it continued until the end of the year. Second. Exports are growing significantly faster than imports. So in the first nine months, exports increased at a rate of 16.9 percent higher, while imports were higher, in fact imports were only 6.3% higher. So, if we look, exports grew almost three times faster than imports and what is very important pointed out, in the 9th month the coverage of exports was 52.9%, and we know that last year the coverage of exports was 38%. Third. This year's external debt has increased by 2.8 billion kuna, while last year external debt has grown 8.2 billion kuna and what is very important to note in the 9th month has decreased external debt by EUR 100 million. Fourth. The unemployment rate has dropped to 17.2% and this is the lowest unemployment rate in the last 5 years. Fifth. Inflation has successfully maintained a level of 2% per year over the last three months despite record oil derivatives prices, and there have been some estimates that, fortunately, did not realize that inflation would go to 6% and 7%. So with its policy, the government managed to keep inflation in the frameworks of 2%, and we believe that, and it will be shown in the long run by one great success, because it was very significant to keep it, and it should be thanked to all those who have made additional efforts and kept prices at levels from previous months regardless of the increase in fuel prices, and even the INAs, which was at the given times when it estimated that an increase in certain fuel prices could have an impact on both living standards and inflation, that they covered that increase in their internal reserves, so as you can see in recent weeks, when fuel prices started falling, oil prices on the world market and INA began to lower prices. Thus, achieving these results was not possible that the government did not withdraw certain moves and measures, reducing the deficits of the State budget and reducing borrowing abroad were the main levers of fiscal policy that contributed to the reduction of foreign debt and opened more space to private investment. The government has worked and will work on infrastructure projects in the future, which also contributes to economic growth and employment growth. The government led a tax policy in a way that did not affect inflation and helped to borrow low, retain low inflation levels. The reduction in imports has nothing to do with the activities of the state which were not facing an increase in the trade deficit, but rather towards its reduction. According to all of this, the government has contributed greatly to economic growth and development over the past 330 days. This year's budget revenues are planned totaling 88.4 billion kuna and 5% more than in 2004. Incomes are projected in line with expected economic growth and activities and with the expectation of improved collection. I want to stress that even in the budget this year the effects of improved collection are seen, the effects against the fight against the gray economy are seen and this will certainly continue and the trend next year. The planned tax revenues are 51.3 billion and an increase of 7.9% is projected compared to 2004. Income from a contribution of 32.3 billion, an increase of 8.3% compared to 2004. In its projections, the finance ministry did not plan to increase tax rates or excise duties in 2005, and I would like to stress this in particular. Due to the improved charge, we expect an effect of around 600 million kuna additional revenues. The analyses show that economic activity is much greater than the achievement of excise and value added tax revenues, and that is what we have pointed out and what we still have to fight. This is the reason for the establishment of a financial policy with a top priority to pay for excise duties, the collection of VAT and, above all, the control of the return of the pretax paid, as it is one of the largest grey holes in the tax system of the Republic of Croatia. Budget expenditures were planned according to the international methodology for budgetary accounting of the GFS in 1986. Why am I saying that? So that we can also compare them with the budget expenditures of the previous years, and especially that we can compare them with the expenditures of 2003 and that we can withdraw parallels and talk about comparable expenditures. Therefore, the budget of 87.3 billion, the purchase of non-financial assets of 2 and a half billion, the expenditure on shares and other shares of 294 million kuna, the net loan of 838 million kuna. Compared to 2004, an increase in expenditure of 4 billion kuna is proposed. When we look at the budget according to the most important categories, then its structure is the following: Costs for government employees are 22.9 billion kuna or 25.5% of budget, expenditure for goods and services 5.3 billion kuna or 5.9% of budget, expenditure for interest rates of 4 billion kuna or 4.5% of budget, expenditure for subsidies of 5.2 billion or 5.9% of budgets, expenditure for various aids of 3.8 billion kuna or 4.3% of budget, expenditure for social benefits of 40.9 billion kuna or even 45.65% of budget. Other expenditures 7 billion or 8.3% of the budget. And now the basic question that everyone often criticises, and often we all like to say that the budget is developmental and social. So I'm going to use that, too, but I'm going to try and explain how much of this budget is invested in the social component, and how much in the developmental component, and then we can discuss whether this budget is really developmental and social. So, the social component of the budget is quite clear from the pre-numbered budget categories and is 45.9% of the budget or 40.9 billion kuna is directly allocated for different categories, health care, pensions, maternity benefits, defenders, unemployed, children's allowance. In 2005 a billion kunas are planned for healthcare more and a purely rhetorical question, is there a Croatian citizen who does not want better health care, and are we obliged to provide him with this better health care? And what is one of the main and main priorities of this government in the coming year is finally the awareness of those health debts at zero and start from some optimal beginning with the determination of a quality financial cycle in which bills in health can be settled. Because let's remember our debates in 2000 when we talked about a billion and 700 transferred unpaid bills in health care. In 2004, it was over 2 billion and it is one cycle that unfortunately continues as it continues. Simply this year, the government will try to cut that Gordian knot and settle those health debts to the end. Last year we solved 530 million, this year we intend to solve the other 700 so that we can get into 120 days' pay schedules. For pensions this year, more than one billion and 200 million kuna are planned to be allocated. For maternity benefits, 1.2 billion kuna will be allocated next year. For the 3.6 billion kuna defenders. As far as the development component is concerned, it is shown in a series of items that are good and detailed, which can be read well and in detail in the Budget. For example, the transfer to the Croatian railways amounts to nearly 2.9 billion kuna. When it comes to exports, it should be mentioned that a total of 428 million kuna are secured in several of the positions planned to encourage exports. Capital projects that can be seen from a series of items are in the Budget and their amount is 5.5 billion kuna. About 7.7 billion kunas in extra budget funds and about a billion kunas in local administrations and self-government, which is ultimately 14 billion kunas or 6.4% of gross domestic product. What are the basic priorities of this budget? The reform of the judiciary from, talking about judicial reform, not giving additional funding to the Geodetic Authority, which is the basis for the construction of land books and the editing of grants would be illusory, which is why in the Budget this year the highest part of the funds, when we talk about judicial reform, is just set aside for grants. Public administration reform 20 million kuna more. Science and Education Reform 356 million more or 4.3%. Agriculture, permanent crops in agriculture 194 million or 7.5% higher. The deficit, therefore, this year's general government deficit is planned for 3.8% of gross domestic product. Of which, the Central government budget is 2.1%, out-of- budget funds 1.3%, and local self-government units 0.3%, which is a fiscal adjustment of 2.6% of those points compared to the 2003 deficit of 6.3%. Mr. President, I'm just asking you a few minutes to say about the payment, and I'm done.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25614	You'll do that later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25615	But I think it's very important for...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25616	It's very important, but you'll do it in the other part. You'll do that later. The committee's rapporteurs. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? The chairman of the board, Shime Squirt, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25617	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Given the importance of this topic today, let me read the full conclusion of the Finance Committee. Report on the 2005 National Budget Proposal for the Republic of Croatia with the proposal for a budget projection for 2006, 2007. Proposals for financial plans for 2005 with a projection proposal for 2006 and 2007 for the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Croatian Employment, Croatian Water, Croatian Highway, Croatian Roads, State Agency for Deposit Insurance and Rehabilitation of Banks, Croatian Privatisation Fund, Environmental Protection Fund and Energy Efficiency. Proposal for a plan of revenue and expenditure of the State budget and of the non-financial funds for 2005 with the draft budget for 2006 and 2007. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 19th session held on 16 November 2004. Proposal for a State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 with a Draft Budget for 2006 and 2007 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 11 November 2004. Financial and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of its competence as referred to in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 with the Proposal for projections for 2006 and 2007, as a parent working body. Introductoryly, a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia noted that it was in accordance with Article 19 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Budget law for the first time with the proposal for a state budget and budget projection for the next two years. It is pointed out that the proposal for a national budget for the Republic of Croatia for 2005 with the proposal for a projection for 2006 and 2007 is based on positive macroeconomic indicators for 2004 and the projection of macroeconomic indicators for the three-year period. Based on expected GDP growth at a rate of 4.4%, the planned inflation rate of around 2.5% and the growth projection of 4.1% for 2005, budget revenues are projected at around 88.4 billion kuna, which is 5% higher than in 2004. Tax revenues should reach $11.3 million, which is 7.9% higher than this year. Income from value added tax, the most significant revenue from the state budget was planned at €32.8 billion, which is 7.9%. In total revenues, the share of social security contributions is significant and their growth of 8.3% was planned for 2005 to reach 31.3 billion kuna. The expenditure side of the 2005 State budget points to its social and development dimension to the gaps aimed at increasing living standards, promoting the development of regions and the strategic sectors of the economy. Development of science and technology, judicial reform and public administration. The total budget deficit of the consolidated general government in 2005 was planned at 3.7% of GDP. Following the opening presentation of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the following opinions were presented in the Committee's debate, but I point out that no opinions were raised. A matter of planned dynamics invested in Croatia's railways under the conditions of the soon-onset liberalisation of this sector, the market, and by representatives of the government of the Republic of Croatia, has been clarified that around 2.8 billion kuna will be invested in the HH programme next year. This represents the real possibilities of the next year's budget and the goal is to bring this company back into a solid financial position, but this also shows its restructuring. With regard to the planned dividend income based on the share of Croatia in HT, the government's representative, the Republic of Croatia, pointed out that these funds would be withdrawn into the state budget to be used for project development, as an increase in capital investments was planned for next year. It is noted that the planned privatisation revenues will cover part of the State budget deficit for 2005 and will reduce the need for borrowing for the amount of privatisation revenues achieved while the rest will be financed mostly on the domestic market. It is estimated that increased use of domestic funding sources will be brought under the control of the foreign debt of the Republic of Croatia and will boost the development of the domestic capital market. It has been pointed out that the introduction of open market operations using state securities will play a significant role in the transition to domestic funding sources. On the other hand, it is expressed by members of the Committee of Doubts that borrowing on the domestic market could reflect an increase in interest rates. It is pointed out that the achievement of expected budgetary, tax revenues in addition to growth in economic activities and an effective system of supervision and collection of State budget revenues will be achieved. This should be done by curbing the grey economy, primarily by developing an unofficial tobacco market and oil derivatives. In this context, the positive impact of the reintroduction of the financial police is indicated. The opinion of the Committee members is expressed that the estimated macroeconomic indicators in 2005 are primarily expected to grow peoptimist investment and that it is expected that there will be a slowdown in the economic activity of personal consumption, which will ultimately raise the planned revenue. In the opinion of the Committee member from the proposed State budget for 2005, priorities for the following year can not be clearly seen. The need for a new state administration organisation is highlighted, with a view to increasing its efficiency and savings. It is estimated that a significant shift in public expenditure management is the planned level of expenditure for 2005. Payment expenditures are planned to amount to 13 billion and 160 million, etc., which is an increase of 3.2% compared to 2004. However, in the proposed increase, budget users planned new employment funds stemming from an increased level of business for the sake of new organisation and approximation of the European Union to the national budget for 2005, the planned wage mass remains at 2004 level. Related to the amount of planned pension expenditure, the said doubt that their 1.2 billion increase from 2004 to 2004 would be insufficient for the implementation of an agreement on the agreed accounting of their growth, the government's representative said that the 2005 state budget planned sufficient funds for the agreed pension growth in the following year. It was observed that in 2005, the reduction of funds for the Fund for Development and Employment and the government of the Republic of Croatia's representative of the state's employment through tax incentives was fuelled by the Croatian Employment Service, totalling around 2.2 billion kuna. The existing employment promotion programme implemented through the Croatian Employment Service Development and Employment Fund and the system of tax relief from the position of the State budget is unsustainable in the long term and needs to be fully understood in the coming period as a matter of quality change. The view is also expressed that in the next periods during the debate on the National Budget Proposal, a debate on the planned amount of funds for certain micro-economic reforms and programmes, such as the programme for fostering employment, public administration reform and the like. Such a detailed, comprehensive insight into the structure of expenditure will be the basis for a quality assessment of the proposed state budget. After the debate was held, the Committee proposed to the Croatian National Budget for 2005 and the following decisions: Decisions on granting consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2005, Decisions on granting consent to the 2005 financial plan of the Croatian Employment Institute, Decisions on granting consent to the 2005 financial plan of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Decisions on granting consent to the 2005 financial plan of the Croatian highways, Decisions on granting consent to the 2005 financial plan of the Croatian Institute for Employment for 2005, Decisions on granting consent to the 2005 financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2005, Decisions on granting consent to the financial plan of the Croatian highways for 2005, Decisions on granting consent to the 2005 financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25618	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this debate is being followed by students and pupils from the School of Economics and Management from Osijek on 50th, so please welcome them nicely. Thank you, Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, President-in-Office of Honorable Representative Drago Pukleš. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25619	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary-in-Office. The Committee on the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament, held at the 19th session held on 17 November 2004, discussed the proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 with the corresponding contributions submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 11 November 2004. The Committee shall be based on Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in that proposal for a state budget with corresponding contributions discussed as an interested working body. In the opening statement, the proposer's representative pointed out that for the first time, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed a three-year budget projection to the Croatian Parliament, a proposal for a state budget for 2005 increased by 5% compared to the 2004 budget, with an estimated economic growth of 4.4%, an inflation of 2.5% and 35% higher projected funds for the development of the economy. In the following debate, the observations on which the draft budget does not have sufficient developmental characteristics were expressed a position on which... the proposed budget also shows a real fall in salaries in public and state services, education, and employment policy. It was also noted that the projects in which the money from the budget was invested were not sufficiently analysed in terms of their effectiveness and that, in that sense, the example of the employment programme which did not live to the extent to which it should have been. The debate also pointed out that although the projected resources for science were in total increased distribution of these funds was proposed in such a way that the Zagreb University was preferred by the means envisaged in comparison with Rijeka, Split and Osijek. The majority of the members of the Committee expressed the view that employees in the state administration and public services are in a better position than private sector employees, the following should increase the control of the pay-out mechanism in the private sector because the practice has shown that the employers exhibit a smaller part of the income via the account and give most of it in the final part, which directly encourages the grey economy. The problem of coloring the administration should be addressed by rationalising the administration, given that it is important to significantly enhance the efficiency of each individual employee's work. That is why it is pointed out to the establishment of One stop shop centers thanks to which in one place you will be able to get different licenses to work in entrepreneurship. The debate also stressed the need to promote a tripartite dialogue between the government, trade unions and employers. It is also pointed to employment problems and the fact that in the Republic of Croatia there are extremely deficiting professions, for example, welder, tokar, carpenter and others that almost no one wants to deal with. As regards the pension system, it was stated that 400,000 employees under the age of 50 were retired and, among other things, were solved ballast by employers. When talking about the budget, it is important to compare budget implementation in one year compared to the year preceding the year to obtain real indicators. As part of the debate, a thematic session of the Committee was agreed to cover the most important economic issues in the Republic of Croatia, with the fact that according to indicators, the rate of export growth is higher than the rate of import growth, and this as a consequence of the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the majority of the members of the board expressed their position to support the proposed budget and consider it to be developmental and social. After the discussion, the Committee reached its next conclusion with 6 votes in favour and 1 vote against. It is supported by the adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005, and the following decisions, Decisions on granting consent to the 2005 Financial Plan proposed by the Croatian Institute for Pension Insurance, Decisions on granting consent to the proposal for the 2005 Financial Plan for the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Decisions on granting consent to the 2005 Financial Plan for the Croatian Employment Institute, Decision on granting consent to the proposal for the 2005 Financial Plan for the Croatian Waters, Decision on granting consent to the 2005 Financial Plan, Decision on the proposal for the 2005 Financial Plan for the Croatian Motorways, Decision on granting consent to the proposal for the 2005 Financial Plan for the 2005 National Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabitation of Banks, Decision on the Proposal for the 2005 Financial Plan for the 2005 Budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25620	Thank you very much. Committee on Education, Science and Culture, President, Honored Representative Petar Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25621	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education and Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 at its session of 17 November 2005 with the Proposal for a projection of the 2006 and 2007 budget. The Committee considered these issues as an interested working body, particularly clearly with regard to those budget items relating to the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. A number of issues in the field of education, science and culture have been raised in the debate in order to determine to what extent the proposal for the 2005 budget and the projection of the 2006 and 2007 budgets answer some important questions of the areas raised. Parliamentarians are largely agreed that Croatia will draw closer to the European standards that we seek in these areas if the projected growth rate of budgets is achieved not only for the coming year 2005, but especially in the 2006 projection, 2007. The Committee believes that it is particularly important that the step taken by adopting a three-year projection is in advance and that, considering the overall growth, it can be concluded that it is satisfactory in the basic, global lines. It has been concluded that the funds provided for the Ministry of Culture and which grow in one rhythm are quite moderate for 2005, a stronger step in 2006 and then such a calming of that rhythm in 2007 can cover some basic, clear deserters in the area covered by the Ministry of Culture. It is also, for example, a more balanced growth rate of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports, 4 and 3 for 2005, 6 and 4% for 2005 and 8% compared to 2006 and 2007 is a truly serious growth that can contribute to the realization of our idea that only through knowledge can Croatia step forward maturely and safely in Europe. For example, for the first time in the framework of the projection for the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, some things have been found to be very positive. It seems to us that it is also one thing that is not to be ignored. It has also been noted that it may be too low, too low a growth rate in the areas of education, especially in the areas of lower and secondary education. The Committee also received a proposal for two amendments which could not be formulated as amendments because there is no proposal to confiscate funds that would be transferred to those items, but we have, but the Committee has decided to recommend to the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports that for those two dissidents, it is the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts who thinks that it lacks 2 million kunas for the realization of their quality plans, and then it is the issue of Matoshe's mention of the house in Tovarnik, given the place where Tovarnik is located on the map of Croatia in this prominent and delicate place and given the end of the end to the person A.G Matoša, it is thought that the Ministry may also be within the framework of the available funds for projects that will only be analysed that something can be done. In view of all this, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture proposes most votes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 with the proposal for a projection of the 2006 and 2007 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25622	Thank you very much. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, Vice President Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25623	Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sport of the Croatian Parliament at the 15th session held on 17 November 2004 discussed the proposal for a State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 with the Proposed Budget for 2006 and 2007 and the Final Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by Act of 12 November 2004. The Committee considered the proposal for a State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 with the Draft Budget for 2006 and 2007 and the Final Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 as an interested working body. A joint debate was held on the proposal from the chairman. In his opening statement, the finance ministry's representative pointed out that economic assumptions for the state budget are a continuation of economic growth and macroeconomic stability. In 2005, real GDP growth of 4.4%, inflation of 2.5%, is expected. The revenue of the budget should therefore be achieved in line with the increase in economic activity and in view of the improved tax collection following the introduction of measures for better payment control. The planned total revenue of the state budget for 2005 is 88.4 billion kuna, or 5% more than in 2004. The tax revenue is €51.3 billion, i.e. an increase of 7.9 from 2004. The revenue from the contribution is 32.3 billion compared to the increase and 8.3 compared to 2004. The finance ministry did not plan to increase tax rates or excise duties in 2005 in its projections. In order to improve the charge, an effect of around 600 million kuna additional revenues is expected. The analyses show that economic activity is much higher than the revenue from excise duties and value added tax has been achieved. The planned expenditure of the State budget for 2005 according to the international methodology of budgetary accounting amounts to €90.9 billion, and they include expenditures of €87.3 billion, purchase of non-financial assets of €2.5 billion, shares and other shares of €294 million, and net loans of €838 million. Compared to 2004, this means an increase in expenditure by 4 billion kuna. The main priorities of the budget set out are judicial reform, public administration reform, reform of science and education, continuation of infrastructure projects, permanent crops in agriculture, so there are all announced reforms and all promises related to maternity benefits, children's allowance, pension induction and defence rights, which means that there are around 10% higher funds for the same budget compared to 2004. For sport 27.8%, for education 3%, which is about 300 million kuna in nominal value. Extra budget funds, including Croatia's largest highway budgets and Croatia's roads, have total non-consolidated expenditures of 11.7 billion kuna. The total government budget deficit for 2005 is 3.7% of gross domestic product, which is a fixed adjustment of 2.6% compared to last year's 6.3% deficit. It is important to stress that all expenditure that resulted in deficits of 6.3% in the year 2003 of the Croatian Railways, unrecorded recovery expenditure, have been shown neatly in this year's budget and in the 2005 budget, so these deficits are therefore fully comparable. After the opening presentation of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, most of the members of the Committee supported the draft state budget for 2005, and decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 and the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25624	Thank you. Committee on Tourism, Chairman of the Committee, Honored Representative Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25625	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. At the 11th session of the Committee held on 17 November 2004, the Croatian National Budget for 2005 was discussed by the Proposal for a projection for 2006 and 2007, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by means of an act of 11 November 2004. The Committee on Tourism considered the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 with the proposal for a projection for 2006, 2007 on the basis of Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body in the section concerning the financing of individual purposes in the tourism sector from the state budget. The preliminary presentation on the concept and projection of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 was submitted on behalf of the promoter by Mr Ante Zigman, Assistant Minister of Finance. While the report on individual positions and accounts envisioned various incentives in tourism explained and explained Mr Zdenko Micic, State Secretary for Tourism. In a general debate on the 2005 National Budget Proposal, the Committee pointed to a certain reduction in the planned means of encouraging tourism, and in particular a significant reduction in funding for subsidies for organised tourism. The Committee assessed that the policy of subsidising organised tourism has produced good effects, and should bear in mind that in the event of possible disturbances on the international tourist market, however, the possibility of providing additional resources for this purpose should be left. In the discussion on particulars, the Committee supported the new state incentives for the development of rural, cultural and other selective forms of tourism, creating an opportunity for a more even development of tourism across the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee also requested that the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development be made available as soon as possible to see projects to develop selective forms of tourism that will be stimulated by State budget funds. On the basis of that debate, the Tourism Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to bring the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 with the proposal for a projection for 2006 and 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25626	Thank you very much. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, President-in-Office Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25627	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At its 14th session of November 17th, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities discussed the proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 as an interested working body. In accordance with its section of the established Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee discussed in more detail those parts of the draft budget relating to the financing of programmes and activities aimed at the exercise of the rights of national minorities, the protection and promotion of human rights and those parts of the draft budget relating to the support of Croatian minorities in European countries. At the beginning of the debate, a principle note was made, that classifications of the title of certain budget items relating to the programme and activities referred to above are not given in the draft budget in an appropriate manner which reduces budget transparency and creates ambiguity. It is also pointed out to the inaccuracy in defining the users of the budget on page 10, on the page 10 of the draft budget, where, as the beneficiary of the budget, the nominated expert service of the Council for National Minorities and also the content of the budget items, it is evident that this should be the Council for National Minorities. Namely, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities as an institution with established rights and obligations has established a Council for National Minorities, while the professional service is only its professional body for which only one is used in the framework of the total resources provided for in the Council and that is much less... The name of this budget item should be aligned with such constitutional law. When it comes to financial support for programmes and activities related to the exercise of the law of established rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, it is pleased to note that the total resources provided for by the National Minority Council are increased by about 10%. And within that part of it is intended for associations and institutions of national minorities, so those precisely for transfers have increased more, even more, 11%. It is the means used for information and publishing, cultural amateurism, cultural manifestations, programmes stemming from bilateral agreements and contracts, schemes to create assumptions for the achievement of the cultural autonomy of national minorities and the participation of national minorities' associations in joint programmes organised by the Alliance for National Minorities. As regards programmes and activities relating to the exercise of the rights of national minorities to education and education in the minority language, the following has been established. The means of printing and translation of textbooks for minority primary schools are foreseen in 2005, which is again an increase of around 11%, but this is only seemingly satisfactory or seemingly higher because unfortunately because of years of delays, this amount is not enough to address this acute problem of minority schools. For example, the high schools of my minority, the Italian minorities, for example, do not have a single translated book without speaking, which is the best solution to the national minority. You see the absurd because there's at least a little something in elementary schools. It is estimated that for these needs a minimum amount of 6 million kuna should be provided. For specific programmes for the education of national minorities in 2005, an estimated amount of around one million kuna is also 11.1% higher compared to 2004, and the item of education and education of children of ethnic and national minorities is foreseen in the amount of one million and 500 thousand kuna for the 2004 budget. The draft budget in the section relating to the Ministry of Culture does not specify the resources planned for the needs of national minorities. When it comes to funding, the need for minority rights has highlighted the problem of unresolved funding by the Council of National Minorities and their offices. This may be the biggest problem of this budget, of course, by respecting the fact that there is a strong increase in that part of the association or when it comes to the Council of National Minorities there are a lot of unresolved matters. Which, once selected, has been established and registered now in a large number of cases, cannot function because no minimum means have been provided for their work. The debate particularly highlights the issue of ensuring assumptions for the achievement of the national programme for Roma, adopted last year by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The implementation of this programme is within the competence of several ministries and within the scope of the Office of National Minorities of the Republic of Croatia. In 2005, the following items are provided: In the framework of the Office for National Minorities, one amount that is from a million and 780 thousand kuna, which is much, much greater than that in 2004 is 90.5%. In the framework of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction amounted to 120,000 kunas for the spatial arrangement of areas inhabited by Roma, and this was much more in the last year, it was a million kunas. Under the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports amounting to 500 thousand kuna, within the Ministry of Health and Social Care 150 thousand kuna and something completely new within the Ministry of Justice for Free Legal Assistance 520 thousand kuna. The opinion has been expressed that there is still no satisfactory coordination among the competent state authorities in the context of the implementation of the national programme for Roma and that the relevant Government Commission should be considered as soon as possible before the programme is implemented. When it comes to financial support for Croatian minorities in European countries, it has been stressed that the draft budget cannot determine for which purposes and on which basis this assistance is provided, and how much funding is planned. It is evident that within the framework of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs an item called Aid to National Minorities abroad with a million kunas as safe as it is in 2004, a amount of 12 million kuna for the international programme of Croatian Radio "Glas Hrvatska" amounting to the same amount was secured, sorry, and in this year. So the same amount this year and last year. And within the framework of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, an amount of 24 million 876 thousand 502 kuna is foreseen for the education programme of children of Croatian citizens abroad and this is 6.7% higher in 2004. Since these are items that clearly include not only assistance to Croatian minorities in other countries but also Croatian citizens abroad, this difference is important, it is estimated that the applicant should provide more precise information on how much the total funds are provided for Croatian minorities in European countries and whether they are smaller or larger compared to last year and what is the structure and purpose and assistance. Finally, as regards funding for the programme and activities aimed at protecting and promoting human rights, it was concluded that this year's budget proposal increased funds to all budget users and that I am not going now to list data more or more than the average of budget increases and there is also one satisfaction. The opinion was also expressed that the applicant should give a more detailed explanation for the funds planned for the reconstruction of damaged or destroyed houses or for the housing of returnees and settlers in areas of special state care, as it is also about ensuring the right to home and ownership rights that fall within the category of fundamental human rights. It is also the right of minorities but it includes a much wider right. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005, with a projection of the 2006 and 2007 Budget. Finally, as regards the financing of the work of the Council of National Minorities, the following conclusion was reached: the Committee notes that the mechanism for the financing of the work of the Council of National Minorities has been adopted by 5 votes for and 4 abstentions. The Committee notes that the mechanism for financing the work of the Council of National Minorities does not work in accordance with Article 28. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and asks the Government of the Republic of Croatia to commit units of local self-government to plan funds for these needs for the next financial year. This is about the funds of local self-government. The Committee also notes that the State budget should provide resources for the work of the Council of National Minorities' Coordination at national level. It's been a long time, but we're done, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25628	Thank you very much. The Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government, President-in-Office Zvonimir Mršić? No, I don't. Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, President-in-Office Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25629	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister! The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 12th session held on 17 November 2004. Proposal for a State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 with a proposal for a projection of the 2006 and 2007 budget. Following the opening explanation of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, the Committee held a brief discussion on the overall proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005. The broader debate covers that part of the proposal relating to the work of the Committee. In principle, most board members supported the adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 with regard to commitments and available resources. However, in a concrete debate concerning agriculture, different opinions, remarks and proposals have been presented. It was thus warned that there were no major changes in the agricultural budget for 2005 compared to earlier years and insufficiently increased funds were not well structured. The budget should be accompanied by an appropriate agricultural policy that would allow for concrete domestic production and after the expiry of the transitional period of entry of the Republic of Croatia into the World Trade Organisation. It is also pointed out that the creation of the 2005 budget and the following budgets and, before the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, a more significant turn in agricultural policy should ensure sufficient protection of agricultural economies. Some members of the Committee believe that direct payments in agriculture are not an effective way to conduct agricultural policy. It does not allow for an increase in agricultural production of the only quality form of protection in the process of adapting Croatia, entering the European Union. It is pointed out that agri-environmental and eco-social programmes are not seen in this Budget. Rural development is not encouraged to a sufficient extent through institutional forms. Capital investment is the most transparent way of investing in agriculture and should be taken into account in the projection of funds which is not visible from this proposal. The opinion was made that the funds were intended for agricultural incentives in the proposal for the 2005 budget, the result of unused funds from 2004 and the Regulation on how to encourage agricultural production. In this regard, it is pointed out that, unfortunately, the development of the technology of agricultural production has been replaced by a struggle for incentives. Although the proposal introduces more significant amounts for projects: raising annual vineyards, orchards and olive groves, developing beef and irrigation systems, direct payments are at the same level and are not sufficient. A significant and well-organised institution, according to some members of the Committee, should be provided with a higher amount of funding. First row for test vineyards and labs. For the development of fruit growing, more significant branches of agriculture would be good to increase the funds in the item of the Fruit Office. The arrangement of the land of arondation, comassation and charity is a prerequisite for modern agricultural production. It is pointed out that there is a need to provide more significant resources for this purpose. The debate draws attention to the increased amount of funds for the regular maintenance of water protection structures to be retained because they represent a minimum without which there is no regular maintenance of this system. It was also warned that the good placement of domestic agricultural products on the market depends largely on the increase in co-financing of the national wholesaler. On the basis of the debate, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament voted mostly, 6 votes for and 5 votes against it decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25630	Thank you. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. President-in-Office of the Committee, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25631	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament and Government, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 26th session held on 17 November 2004 discussed the proposal for a State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 12 November 2004. The debate covers only part of the State budget proposal relating to the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the security system bodies. In the presence of authorised representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence and Security, anti-intelligence agencies, intelligence agencies, military security agencies and the Office of the National Security Council, the Committee discussed the budget items proposed to finance those bodies of the State administration. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25632	Thank you very much. The Committee on Information, Information and Media. President of the Committee, Honored Representative Zeljka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25633	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the meeting held on 17 November the proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 with the Proposal for Budget projection for 2006 and 07th year submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee considered the proposal of the State Budget as an interested working body. What I must point out at the beginning was not present at the Committee's meeting, although we tried to get representatives of the Ministry of Finance or at least, given the part-time work of the Committee of Someone from the E-Croatian Central Office, but that did not happen. I think that, too, the debate on the Committee was somewhat limited because questions could be asked in order to clarify some items in the budget had no one to answer. In view of the proposal put forward, the Committee agreed to discuss only those parts of the Proposal for a Budget relating to the Committee's workaround, which are information projects and media funding with a public task. In the debate, the Committee members referred to the information given as an item in all ministries and to all state bodies. The planned projects have been assessed positively in the context of the continued and desirable information of society and specifically planned funds for information education. What was not possible was precisely some order of priorities given far greater needs than could be financed and included in the 2005 budget. The part concerning media funding in the debate pointed out that for the international programme of the Croatian Radio “Glas Hrvatska”, it is about the Programme to inform members of the Croatian diaspora asked for 12.5 million kuna and the proposed amount was 12 million kuna, but it is not explained why the full amount was not approved. In this regard, the members of the Committee consider that individual ministries should be obliged to reject requests for specific projects to explain why the amount requested is not accepted. After the debate, the Committee decided to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament, which supports the adoption of the State budget for 2005, by a majority of 5 votes in favour and 2 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25634	Thank you. The Committee on Gender Equality. President of the Committee, the Honorable Representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25635	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 15th session of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 with the Proposal for a Budget for 2006 and 2007 and held a joint discussion together with the Final Bill on the Implementation of the State Budget for 2005. After the opening presentation of a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which was not prepared for the issue of the work of this Committee, the discussion followed by members and members of the Committee specifically referred to the planned budgets for the Ombudsman for gender equality, the Gender Equality Office, the Family Ministry, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and the Ministry of Health and Social Care. The Gender Equality Office envisions an increase in budgets by 26.9% higher than this year. However, for the development of national gender equality policy, only 90,000 kuna are projected for next year and another 200 thousand kuna is actually illogical, i.e. inadmissible because the production must be completed during the following year. In the ministry of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, 9.2% increase funding. However, the budget picture is not transparent, it cannot be seen where budgets are allocated because new heads and positions have been introduced and some existing abolished, which does not necessarily mean that all previous users, women, children, young people, persons with disabilities, families are covered. Members and members of the Committee were particularly interested in where they would be deployed or where the funds were allocated to the alimony fund. In view of the fact that the fund has not been set up or is foreseen in the 2005 budget, members and members of the Committee are of the opinion that these 20 million kuna funds should, for example, be directed to the Centre for Social Care in accordance with Article 352. Family law pays for supporting children in a situation where one of the parents does not fulfil his legal obligation to his children. Since no one from the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity has responded to an orderly invitation to the Committee meeting, and the representative of the Ministry of Finance could not respond to the redistribution of the funds made within the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, such a relationship with the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Assembly is inadmissible in the debate. A positive estimate of the increase in the amount of budgets of 3.8%, I apologize for writing a much larger amount, but Minister Vukelic was there, so the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship has a higher budget for this year than the previous one by 3.8%, but the debate noted that it is not clear how much the amount is intended for example to encourage women's entrepreneurship or encourage youth entrepreneurship. Namely, if women are involved in the so-called The target group of the company where the beginners, young, women, defenders and the activities of social services are located does not show how much the funds are intended individually for each of these categories. The more women make up cca 59% of total unemployed, the active employment policy programme of the Croatian Employment Service reduces from 3 million kuna to 500 000 kuna, while the Fund for Development and Employment decreases by a total of 20%. Further in the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, 5.8% are increasing. But, for example, in prevention of early breast cancer, it is evident that only 2.8% of planned funds were spent in 2004 and that the figure was reduced in 2005 from 180 thousand to 125 000, which could have led to a decrease in women's disease or that the funds were not used in the previous year and are now reduced because the persons in charge of programmes in the Ministry of the Authority had not done their job. It has been found that an increase of 45.7% compared to the previous year is foreseen for the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality, which will contribute more effectively to the work of this body. Finally, it was also warned that the countries of the European Union have started to implement so-called last year. a gender-sensitive budgetary policy. It is therefore proposed to include in the development of the 2006 budget: the Ombudsman for gender equality, the Gender Equality Office and the co-ordinators of the ministries. Because the budget is not gender neutral but the planning and distribution of resources from the state level has a significant impact on the equal position of women and men in our society. After the debate was held, the Committee voted mostly; 5 for and 4 against it decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25636	Thank you. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. Committee President, Honored Representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25637	Dear Mr President, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 17th session of the Committee held on 17 November 2004 discussed the proposal of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 with a proposal for a budget projection for 2006 and 2007. A joint discussion was held on the proposal for a State Budget for the Republic of Croatia for 2005 with a proposal for a budget projection for 2006 and 2007 with the Final Proposal for a Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005. In the opening statement, the applicant’s representative specifically explained the parts of the budget relating to the health and pension system. It has been pointed out that the projected investment in the health care system is almost 5% higher than in 2004. Significant investments in the health system are proposed. Construction, restoration and equipment of hospital facilities, as a continuation of previously created obligations under signed contracts and credit obligations, as well as the realization of newly created obligations. The envisaged increase in HZZO investment with continued rational business and cost control despite reduced contributions and the existing debt will allow this institution to continue to operate on its own. And in the pension system, it was also pointed out, an increased 52 million outflow has been proposed compared to the previous year, which will contribute to its further stabilisation. In the broad discussion that followed, it was pointed out that this National Budget proposal proposed for the first time a budgetary projection for 3 years, making it more clear that the government's development policy is being pictured, as well as individual projects within. In addition to the expected increase in investment in the health system, the members of the Committees may also be able to save further savings by removing certain illogicalities in the material business. This primarily refers to the rationalisation of drug consumption, the reduction in price, and the number of prescribed medicinal products leading to this primary consideration of patient needs. Then there is the need to get live supplies for hospital institutions at a level playing field. Obeying the obligations of supplying equipment to public tenders and so on. The pilot of the project Koprivnica, carried out under the previously signed contract and commitments, will spend part on telemedicine of Croatian islands, which, in the opinion of the Committee members, means no doubt raising the quality of health services for the island's population. Some of these funds will be spent on increasing the hygiene standard in hospitals by building 800 to 900 sanitary nodes in the hospital rooms. Since the Law on Patients' Rights has only recently been adopted in the Assembly, it is useful to provide for the means to implement it, but according to the present representatives of the Croatian Medical Chamber, there are insufficient means for professional supervision based on the provisions of the Medical Act. The Committee members supported the envisaged allocations for particularly expensive medicines in the private fund, which was increased compared to 2004. This Committee, as well as its members, has been addressed individually by a number of associations of various groups of patients who have not been able to get certain medicines due to hospital restrictions, and are now fortunately available to them. The quality shift in healthcare is also a budget for the procurement and installation of artificial snails as well as for the body's disposal for 2005 and subsequent years. In addition to further allocation for the transplant program, this will certainly lead to its improvement by increasing the number of transplanted and transplanted bodies for which this Committee has continued to advocate. On a special request from the Committee member, the applicant's representative further explained that only investments in state-owned hospital institutions are financed by the Health Protection Act. And not owned by the county, so the budget will not invest in the hospital in Virovitica even though there is an earlier agreement on joint investment. With regard to the information of primary health care, the amendment to the contract signed is under way in accordance with the observations of the State audit, as well as the primary protection itself, while funds are missing for the information of the hospital system at the moment. However, he pointed out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is continuing to build those facilities that have been established as obligations in previously signed contracts. As far as informing primary healthcare is concerned, negotiations are being held with the contractor on the rescheduling of the contract worth around 70 million kuna. And to inform the hospital system of this t renunciation, the funds are missing. The debate highlights the opinion of the board member that there is still a significant motivation for early retirement, since each later departure is also a lower pension, and in this respect it is necessary to protect the pension system. He also suggested that a more detailed statement be made of the amount of the obligation required to bear the State budget for the provision of funds for special pensions. Further discussion supports further investment in the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, as well as the planning of sufficient funds for agreed pension growth in the following year. It is also necessary to provide means for preventive medical examinations of persons over 45 years of age, which have not been reported in the last three years to a primary healthcare physician and started in 2004. After the discussion, the members of the Committee voted mostly with one abstention and one against decided to extend the Croatian Parliament to the adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 and the next decision. Decisions on granting consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2005. Decisions on granting consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute for 2005 Decisions on granting consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Employment Institute for 2005 Decision on granting consent to the 2005 financial plan of the Croatian Waters. Decisions on granting consent to the financial plan of the Croatian highways for 2005. Decisions on granting consent to the 2005 Croatian Roads financial plan Decisions on granting consent to the State Deposit Insurance Agency's financial plan, and the 2005 bank's sledgehammer. Decisions on granting consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Privatisation Fund for 2005. Decisions on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2005 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25638	Thank you very much. The Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee, the War Veterans Committee, we have reports. We have a reporter. And the Committee on Immigration President-in-Office of the Committee, the respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25639	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on the Immigration of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a State Budget for 2005 at the 10th session of 17 November this year with the proposal for a projection of the accounts for 2006 and 2007. The committee held a debate on the items of the State Budget setting out funds for emigrants, Croats in BiH and Croatian national minorities. Introductoryly, the applicant's representative explained the proposal for a consolidated State budget stressed a significant reduction in foreign borrowing. During the debate, the Committee members asked for explanations to increase certain items of the budget allocated to Croats in BiH and emigrants. The applicant explained this increase in inflation expectations. The members of the Committee expressed their satisfaction that the budget provided funds for the University of Mostar, for the health protection of Croatian citizens resident in BiH, with the means to raise pensions to Croats and Vojvodina and BiH, funds for scholarships of returnees, funds for the work of the Croatian Emigrant Queen, for the work of the Croatian Radio International Programme Glas Hrvatska hrvatska. For the satellite TV programme for North America and Canada and other items for which the Committee has shown its interest. During the debate, the question was raised why the State Budget proposal did not provide funds for care for members of the Croatian Defence Council for 500 families of dead defenders, and for people with disabilities because these funds will be needed to implement an interstate agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the light of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 and the projection of 2006 and 2007, in the light of paragraphs 5, 10, 47 of the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to an interstate agreement with the Federation of BiH, the Government set out the objective of promoting the transparent cooperation between the executive legislative institutions and other institutions of the Republic of Croatia and the Federation of BiH in the light of the general political economic conditions and respect for the special interests of the Republic of Croatia and the Federation of BiH. The proposer suggested that the Committee should discuss with the Minister of Health and Social Care and the Minister of Family Care, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity with the Committee on Family Care and Victims. The ambiguity over the plan of some pensions, the proposing representative said the finance ministry planned funds for these pensions in co-operation with the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. The funds are planned on the basis of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute projects. Following the debate, the Committee reached the following conclusion by majority vote 6 for, 4 abstentions. The proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted for 2005, with a proposal for a budget projection for 2006 and 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25640	Thank you very much. There's been an exhaustive debate on the boards. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament were planned to give the amendment to the draft budget until Tuesday at 12 pm. However, given the huge number of amendments that have been received and arriving, the Parliament's professional services need all night to make tables, to sort out the portfolios, and should then be able to make it clear to the government that first the ministries are preparing for individual amendments and that finally both the government is meeting and showing about the amendments. Therefore, the deadline for the submission of the amendment would be set by Monday until 20 o'clock. So Monday at 8:00, that's enough time to hand over the Amandan. So that they can be completed, processed, handed over to the government and the ministries all night long. Today, a cabinet session, a session of the parliament, would be interrupted by the government's meeting at 13.00 hours of debate at 12.55 hours for ministers to be at the cabinet's session. Since the government's session is scheduled for up to 1 hour, then we would have a break from 13.00 to 14.00. One hour. And after that, we continued the debate. Mr. Vice President, please. On behalf of the Croatian Party Representatives Club, the right respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25641	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Ministers and members of the Croatian Government. Today, the Parliament is discussing the budget for next year and a half who knows which time I will repeat the same request by HSP that this is a debate that should be held slower, months and carefully, because this is the most important document we bring every year in the Croatian Parliament. What is crucial in this budget is that the budget continues to grow, even when we remove from it extra-account funds that were once extra-accountary, and today they are included in the budget itself, it continues to grow. This growth in the budget is, of course, accompanied by the further borrowing of Croatia and the equal issue of guarantees, and therefore, it would be good if when we get a really good and transparent table like this, the ministry made a little more effort to substitute each debate on the budget and display of the debt and the display of guarantees that we know what else is still waiting for us, or what bombs are standing and are not identified here. The second question is who and how does the Croatian budget actually fill? The budget is primarily filled with value added tax and therefore every experiment with VAT is very sensitive and very dangerous. On the other hand, the budget is charged with excise duties, the budget is charged with profit taxes, but the budget is also charged with income tax, but that share of income tax in the charge of the budget is so lower than those mentioned earlier, that it is precisely in the income tax area that more shifts can be achieved than some changes in value added tax. If the government had recently had the courage to engage in an experiment with a reduction in VAT by 2% and thus obtain a budget hole of 3 billion kuna, then it's really strange that this same government has no courage to go to a reduction in income proesis, because if we even abolished the full income tax, we would still only have a budget hole of 3 billion kuna that would almost be created to go to a 2% VAT reduction which almost no one would feel at prices. So, if there was a space for tax evasion, then it was income tax, which would not significantly disrupt the structure of the budget itself, because that increased personal income would, of course, be returned through VAT to the state budget itself. But the budget is also charged with concessions. We also protested during the 2004 budget debate that the Republic of Croatia as a country of preserved natural resources, a country with plenty of drinking water, a country in which many quarryes work, a country in which there is therefore great potential, embarrassingly little profit from charging concessions for the use of its natural resources. This amount is decreasing, it amounted to 709 million kuna in this year, and is reduced to 340 million kuna in the following year. All in all, 340 million kuna, but I don't see anywhere here, nor do we from HSP where there's concession income for 3. GSM mobile network. Is it forgotten that maybe that income will be charged now this year, so it'll be transferred to the next one, I don't know, but it's embarrassing that the concession income is so small. If concessions were charged in the amount in which we think they should be charged, there would be room for income tax cuts. In this regard, when we mentioned mobile telephony and telephony in general, the thesis appeared in the public paper that HT agreed to pay half the dividend to the Croatian state, which owns 49%, although it would not be said how HT works. So HT agrees to pay 49% of dividends to the Croatian state only if Deutsche Telekom is allowed to buy another 10% of HT shares. It is precisely from those if they are true, that indeed the incredibly distraught demands of the HSP Club have asked for the conclusion that the Government undertakes to submit a proposal to this budget to the Assembly, i.e. a copy of the contract with Deutsche Telekom on the privatisation of HT. Unfortunately, until today, the Croatian Parliament has never received an insight into the contract with Deutsche Telekom on the privatisation of HT, and this contract still affects the functioning of the Croatian economy and the filling of this budget and so it would be good for the government here to manifest itself before the Croatian Parliament and during this debate why this contract cannot be given and who is the obligation to prevent the state from paying half the dividends it has rights to. As for the other items in the budget, I will leave great praise to this budget to the clubs of the ruling coalition, i.e. representatives of the HDZ and other parties of the ruling coalition, and I will dedicate myself here on behalf of the HSP Club only to some strange budget items and criticism, because thank you is always in place when it comes to the ruling ones, and we must point out the shortcomings in the opposition. So, first of all, information. I don't mind. The HSP club always advocates information in each place as a possibility of saving. More difficult to count, however, how much total Croatia spends on information or what is under the information, and could even be described as some kind of money tampering, to be decent, but when a man lists a budget page, then collects, there is a figure of nearly 100 million kunas that go annually to information. I believe that this figure is still less than 100 million kuna, that somewhere around 80 million kuna, but it's precisely difficult to determine from this picture of the budget. But while this is already being discussed, it should be mentioned that Croatia has not yet developed the criteria of quality and software and hardware of the type of equipment, level of security, service obligations, education obligations of state officials in new equipment and new software, so a whole set of checks, a whole series of standards, remains with the Croatian state, has not yet been made, and yet we invest so much money in information. I am saying this because when we are having a debate on the Croatian state budget, we are actually having a debate on the meaning of certain government projects. If a project is good, then he needs to get priority and more money, if it's not good, then he can't get that kind of money. So that's why I'm saying it all together on an example of information. If 80 million kuna is spent annually on information, out of it a quarter of it is safely wastes on licenses of various software packages. A four-year license with Microsoft was signed recently. I have nothing against Microsoft's packages, but while they were already being released for the next 4 years, why was no one by the Croatian government sent to ask Microsoft to develop a Croatian version of Windovs for this amount of money for the next 4 years. The software package is exactly the same, only that should be added to the software shell that understands and speaks Croatian. So, when anyone in Croatia buys a computer and turns it on, it's all written in Croatian. Not just that. In this way, Croatia would actually become its core copying lingu of France and in neighbouring countries. So, when you're already going on such concessions to multinationals like Microsoft, then you should look at the maximum benefit. When a move in the economy or in the state administration is financed from state resources, it is necessary to look at how it can benefit the most in the long term. Of course, the same goes for a whole series of other ministries and items in this budget. I'm going to name here a first-row example of the Department of Defense. International co-operation with the Ministry of Defence is growing from 20 million kuna this year to 100 million kuna in 2007. In 3 years, to facilitate your mathematics, in 3 years Croatia will spend on the international cooperation of our military forces 10 times more money than in this year. Why, then, is this cooperation behind this cooperation? Is this about sending the Croatian army to Iraq? Is this about sending the Croatian Army to various other risky military missions? Because according to what is seen in our press, Croatia was first committed to training police officers, so recently, as we see in the press, it was committed to tutoring in Vietnam itself, and this all seems like an already common concept that in risky areas, like the US used to send troops to Vietnam, first people leave the sanity room, and then military instructors leave, so the engineers leave, and then the military police leave, and then the move after the mic shows up and the other military troops. So, I hope warmly, we at the HSP Club hope warmly that these 100 million kunas in 2007, or 10 times greater separation for the international military cooperation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia than this year, does not mean that Croatia will send its troops to Iraq or have any business with Iraq. If that's the case, then the Secretary of Defense here makes it clear. As for the military and the Armed Forces themselves, 75% of the cost of the Ministry of Defence is paid, and we wish for a time when there will be a 1:1 ratio between wages and modernisation. We recently had here a report on the state of the Armed Forces and despite such a report we have again a budget almost as if it had been copied since last year. Nothing's changed here. We have, say, the situation that in this budget the whole point of the Ministry of Defence is no longer classified by the Navy, the Air Force and the Land Army but is all laid down in one division and we really don't know how much of it is spent on any of it. But what's for sure is that there's no swear on the Coast Guard here in this budget. A country that wants to call its half of the Adriatic, a country that has taken responsibility to oversee its half of the Adriatic, has no items here for the Coast Guard or far away. Is it because it was meant to be solved with some rebalancing over the next year, is it just that we still don't have the law? We really don't understand. But the fact that a country that has not solved the issue of surveillance must not do so so that it simply forgets. The issue of building a fishing fleet on the Adriatic should also be mentioned here and the general management of that part of the Adriatic. The fact is that Croatia has an economic belt, but it is also the fact that Croatia still has funny small funds in the distribution of the Ministry of Agriculture, only 1 million kunas for exploring the wealth of the sea. The fact is that in the Ministry of the Adriatic by 8%, small funds are being reduced to explore the Adriatic. The fact is that Croatia still does not have for its fishermen in their ID cards, in their fishing privileges a special part relating to the right to fish in the economic belt. It's like we never did it. It is too high to mention here that we have had the first reading of the Law on Croatian Defence, that the second might come after we adopt the Croatian budget, but if so, it is really embarrassing that we have some pathetic 59 million kunas for the housing of 13 thousand disabled, wartime, military disabled Homeland War who have the right to housing. So much for the credibility of the law itself. That we only have 32 million kunas scheduled for the employment of about 40,000 still unemployed defenders. So much for the credibility of the Croatian Defence Act proposed by Mrs Kosor. And I could list a lot more, but here I have to look back on another painful item, which is the fact that Croatia does not have its memorial centre on the day of the victims of Vukovar. That Croatia spends so much ridiculously small money for demining that pyrotechnics receive 5 thousand kunas per month, i.e. since schools and sciences do not only follow the growth of inflation but are even less than it should be. So we have a whole series of amendments to this State budget and depending on how these amendments...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25642	... Finish it, buddy. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25643	...the passage depends on our vote on this budget as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25644	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and DC, Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25645	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Those amongst us who have the honour, and I don't know if that's happiness when it comes to our budgets Croatian back 5 or more years. So those who have the privilege of sitting here for several mandates will surely notice that every year is an ever-increasing desire and, unfortunately, there are fewer opportunities when it comes to fulfilling the desire to finance budget users. Once Seneca said... "It's not the poor one who has little but the one who wants too much." [[The speaker speaks Latin, he doesn't understand.]] I think that Seneca's saying which affects the very core of individual consumer psychology is also true of psychology, political psychology to all of us who bring the budget to the state regardless or with little regard to who is sitting, who is the prime minister, who is the ruling party. The fact is that, as we wish more and more today, we are increasingly multiplying our needs and our demands for a common social product and common social goods, and that on the other hand from year to year we are facing more and more intense, faster and more undeniable with the limits of our own demand, with the limits of our own unsatisfactory desires. And that's why it seems to me that we should really think about that today really isn't or wouldn't be bad for us to admit that there's too much desire, that public spending is still far above what it should be, and that, on the other hand, if we take just the Mastric criteria that we're going to have to meet, every year we have to reduce the government deficit and every year we have to reduce such excessive social consumption or public spending which, by the way, let the children who are sitting here hear it because they will probably face it, the highest among all transition countries. And it would be wise of us, and it would be brave to admit it in front of the media, in front of the Croatian public, in front of all of our viewers who listen to us now that all of the wishes that we have made here and that we have tried here will practically bring us year after year to eat our own substance, to create less and less goods and to consume them fictitiously. Desires are, of course, individual and political psychology something that can be difficult to control but can at least sublime them, we do not try to sublime them year after year, unfortunately from year to year we do not try to turn them into some new development cycle that will bring more social goods and greater social product to all our citizens than we are practically trying to convert them in a slightly magical way into these items that we still have before us today. It is certainly good to have this context I was now talking about in front of my eyes, it is certainly good that the Ministry of Finance, I congratulate the minister on that courage, and in my opinion, little visibility has decided to reduce the deficit of the general state, to lead to some 3.2% in the projection of the general government deficit, and it is certainly good that in that balance of income and expenditure and what is missing and what we cannot do is covered by some other means. Perhaps I would be happier, like all of our citizens if we knew how and what we would privatize to cover those 4 billion kunas that are hanging in the air somewhere and not in the budget items, if this is the privatisation of the INA, if it is the privatisation of other state-owned companies then I fully agree with counterpart Tadic that it would be best to first, it would certainly be wise to draw the line first under the privatisation of other state-owned companies today, so that the suma sumarum we see what it has brought us, the short-term something certainly is, in the short term it has brought us that we could satisfy our wishes but in the long run we ate one part of that substance, one part of the permanent income we could have had that we didn't get into quick privatisation. Therefore, it would be good to know clearly what we can expect from this accelerated privatisation process, which I have heard advocated by the Government, at least according to what Deputy Prime Minister Mr Hebrang was talking about. In any case, as a club, we support a reduction in the overall deficit of the general state and as a club we would like to know what is planned in privatisation. When I was talking about these desires that cannot be met and again about reduced opportunities, or maybe narrow space to this possibility in the budget, bring about a balance between income and expenditure, then I just want to warn you that in these few years, we have increased twice as much separation for pension and health insurance. I must also warn you that 40 billion or more kuna is now falling on pension and health insurance, which is half of the original revenue of the budget, and that despite all these increases, we have a growing desire again and that somehow general thinking or at least the average court of our citizens is getting worse, that the state of health is worse or at least the same as before, and that we are not talking about all these increased pension insurance allocations here in the end only that today our fellow pensioners are still unhappy and that today the pension population in this country has been paused. No matter who is in power, so half of the total budget revenue is spent on it, we are all dissatisfied with it. The second example, in these five years not only did we heal the PICs but we revived them, we transplanted everything that was given in that PIC organism to work, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is getting worse, our PICs don't want to buy, they all turn their heads from them. In these 5 years, which goes most naturally to the conscience of the former government, we have spent as an age and escapes on subsidies, what we have done with shipyards should not especially be mentioned to our citizens, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that despite all these subsidies, despite this refugee availability of state goods today we have 63% of pre-war industrial production, today we have a drop in industrial production or something in recent months a slight increase, today we have of all transition countries at least direct investment in production, so not direct investment in general but in production, and despite all these funds that measure billions of kuna, despite all these increased appetites we continue to hunger when it comes to production, we are still dry when it comes to industry and we are still without increasing the social product when it comes to the economy. Therefore, if we look at only these few examples, we will see that unfortunately, and with this budget still, although it is now announced for 2006, we will not have an appropriate level and rate of economic growth provided, and that with this budget, we will practically not launch this congestion of the economy. When we look at it all a little bit, and we keep in mind what I was talking about before, then I'd use one of my Virgins and Zagorje's words, "this is a budget so you don't mind anything." The budget "Do not blame anyone" we will all get a slight increase, we will try to comply with the government's promises signed by the agreement and the government's programme to increase some items, but in a significant sense we will practically not start an economy and we will not be able to influence that we can comply with our increased desires and spend more. When it comes to income, however, we think that we should consider abolishing the dividend tax, in our opinion it is not crucial for Croatia's investment momentum, it is not crucial for attracting foreign investment, you have many European countries that have a much higher dividend tax than Croatia, so they are economically strong. This will go hand in hand I have to say, only to the banking sector and it will go hand in hand to those monopoly companies that are already owned by foreign companies who are likely to take that dividend out and then return it back to Croatia, we all know how it goes. I would also draw attention when it comes to the central state and state budget ratio towards local self-government units so that the profit tax should still be paid differently and that there is no point in all these state-owned companies that make profit tax in all of Croatia paying taxes on profits in Zagreb, so that Zagreb can build huge stadiums. I think it's unfair, it's unfair for both Konavle and the Antunovac and for the Molves and for the Varazdin and for Zadar and for everyone else. Therefore, there is an urgent need to change the way in which the income tax is distributed. Excises as a party, as a social-liberal party, we always advocated that those who spend more on alcohol, oil derivatives, cigarettes to pay more. The most social countries in Europe such as Norway or Sweden have the most excise duties, but that's why children have free education. Therefore, Ministers, let's raise our excise duties and put them in education. I also fully agree with Mr Tadic's predecessor that concessions in this country are still embarrassingly low that the state of Croatia and that the citizens of this country practically earn nothing on concessions especially for the natural goods that Croatia has in abundance. Of the individual items, if the time Mr. Chairman allows me, I would like to commend the fact that more is invested in the infrastructure, I think Croatia must raise its infrastructure if it wants to attract investment. It would be better, I must say it openly, that it is more isolated for water protection programmes, to be further isolated for Croatian waters, because today any infrastructure that does not have a drain system and which does not have a good system of water protection areas is practically not an infrastructure that can benefit both domestic and foreign investors. So I think you should think about it. I especially commend, and I think that this is also somehow due to an active environmental protection minister, an increase in funds in the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Croatia, however much it will invest in infrastructure and attract investment, must protect its environment. Unfortunately, we've done too little here, and I think it's good that the funds are growing significantly. In particular, I commend new funds or surplus funds and more resources to encourage exports in the Ministry of Economy. I think our companies need help to be more competitive. I hope that the textile and woodworking industries will finally benefit from this because so far they have been neglected at the expense of the shipyard, and I am also particularly emphasising the increase in investment-enhancing and finally unifying the wood industry and the wood industry programmes. What is not good, and I ask Mr. Minister to think about it, in this kind of projected deficit of the state budget and the extracurricular funds, practically only 0.4%...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25646	Try to finish your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25647	Gross domestic product wastes on borrowing units of local self-government. That's how Mr. Minister goes to your senses as a former mayor, dimming the investments and development of local self-government units. As a party, we support decentralisation as a deconcentration of power and support that units of local self-government can have more active and economic and investment policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25648	Thank you very much. I'm asking the speakers to stick to the frames for the last 15 minutes. We have three corrections, four corrections of an incorrect quote. The first is Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25649	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chehok, speaking of subsidies that are too high and that I agree with, he said that the former government was spending as an age and a fugitive and that this kind of relationship with subsidies is actually going to the burden of the former government. I do, and that's an incorrect quote. In fact, the budget for next year, and in particular the 2006 and 2007 projections, also show a prominent trend in the growth of subsidies, so for this year, the growth of subsidies is projected at 3.3%, for the next year over 10% 10.1% and for 2007 4.9%. For this budget in which, of course, this government will spend, Mr. Chehok will give his support.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25650	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25651	Well, I'd like to correct the inaccuracies of my fellow Czechoko who claimed that everyone was getting something. Well, Koprivnica and Koprivnica and Križevnica County are not getting anything because none of the numerous capital investment requirements that we have submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia are respected and Koprivnica is not mentioned in this state budget. The second dividend tax is paid by natural persons, i.e. they have so far been paid, and thus the abolition of that tax will not benefit banks and foreign owners of companies from abroad, but will be used by citizens who have had enough money to invest in shares in the Republic of Croatia. And we know that the small shareholders who bought the shares in the conversion, unfortunately, had to sell the shares to those who had the money for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25652	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25653	Mr. esteemed colleague Mršić did not correct my claim, because I did not say that all regions would get something more. So I wasn't talking about the Koprivnica region.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25654	What is the article of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25655	Nine, already...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25656	Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25657	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Chehok incorrectly stated that no one wants to buy our PICs. He wants to buy a colleague, he's got interested customers but not according to the criteria favoring party alike like the Whites case.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25658	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25659	Here I am correcting an incorrect quote. Mr. Chehok claimed that there was an increase in the funds allocated to exports. On the contrary, there was a reduction, e.g. In a special item of the Ministry of Economy, export promotion is projected 8 million kuna, which is 10% less than this year, and in the items, the development of competitiveness and export orientation of the Croatian industry 0.0%, while the promotion of domestic production is the same 0.0%. I don't know where he saw an increase in funds, let's show it to me in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25660	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25661	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The basic assessment of the SDP Club in this budget is that this budget is maintained by the ruling majority in the Assembly at the expense of Croatia's development. Also state and one style of governance of this government, which is a little trade, a little buy, a little bribe and deception, a little beauty, and if new unreal promises need to be replaced by old promises. Since Croatia's launch, investment in its development in the improvement of its citizens, unfortunately, taxpayers will be nothing. Citizens are treated as taxpayers, i.e. those on whose shoulders will be charged with all the maintenance weights of the parliamentary majority. In this regard, and such a taxpayer will not pay a VAT of 20% as promised, his salary will on average be taxed for only 50 kuna, which is the result of the pompous announced tax reform that we discussed here in the Parliament yesterday. They won't grow a pension, except for those Hus MPs. Retired with the lowest pensions, the increase will be about as much as the monthly pay of the TV subscription. In the election campaign of today's ruling furniture, however, they have been promised the release of that TV subscription, but of course neither of it nor of many other things. But let's go back to the budget that should have started Croatia, but there's nothing in this budget since the launch. The argument for this is found in a slight increase in the amount of maternity benefits, a woman's increase in funds for defenders, for national minorities and almost no pensioners. Everyone's happy from the pensioners to the IMF at least for the time being. However, it is a short-term policy, a policy until the local elections are over. Or metaphorically this budget will hold water until the election is gone. When you look at the revenue and expenditure side, you can't help thinking that this budget was made so that the top Croatian drivers first defined the expenditure side and what we, i.e. They needed it, and then they were just going to see which revenue they were going to cover. That's why the upside-down budgeting happened to be overestimated, so unreal. Both citizens and companies in this country are slowly exhausted and overworked for additional borrowings and do not have much space anymore. When the satisfaction of a pensioner's word with an increase of 4%, it should be said that without rebalance, that satisfaction has no basis in this budget. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with points (a) and (b) of Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. For a 1% pension increase, about 240 million kuna should be provided at an annual level. With higher incomes, it also counts for better tax payments from a part of the grey economy. How? That response was unfortunately neither received from the finance minister nor from Prime Minister Sanader. On several occasions, we from the SDP Club have supported the intention and we continue to support it to put an end to the gray economy, but this cannot be achieved only by words or numbers in the income item, but by training institutions. In this year nothing has been done to prepare concrete actions for better billing and better budgeting. This budget, according to the SDP, is unsustainable and very soon after the local elections, we will have a rebalance or we will have to increase the tax burden on citizens in order to realise unreally planned revenues. This budget shows a 20% reduction in funding for the Development and Employment Fund and the Regional Development Fund for County projects by 25%. It also limits HBOR's funds and guarantees which fulfil the IMF's commitments signed by the government. It's definitely stopping regional development, but employment in this country. However, as I said to the IMF, the reduction of funds has been met, but pre-election promises to Croatian citizens are not. In fact, funds are also set up for what is not profitable and where there is no interest in investing individuals and banks. No one will invest in the development of the region unless it makes a profit. The reduction of regional development funds will result in the coming year of those environments in which high unemployment, imperceptibility, poverty continue to run out of progress, which means no perspective, no better tomorrow. Tax reliefs in areas of special state care cannot achieve any effect for citizens living there, because when there is no one working in those areas, there is no one paying taxes, so they can't be used either. Therefore, the only rescue for these areas is the direct investment of the state or the use of investment in the public and private sector. The Development and Employment Fund and the HBOR were support for the production of the intended exports more favourable, therefore under more favourable conditions than the banks provide. The increase in exports in this year by a billion dollars is partly the effect of exactly this kind of stimulation that has been going on for the past few years. The reduction of resources in the following year also means a reduction of support for exporters. This government swears that entering the European Union is the first and most important national interest. Unfortunately, like many other things, it's just declarative. In this budget, it is not clear that Croatia is preparing to join the European Union. For example, agriculture is one of the most sensitive branches in the adaptation of the European Union market. This is the last year when customs measures will be able to protect domestic production from imports. What do we do next year? In preparation for full membership in the European Union, a number of reforms need to be implemented, set up and put in place a new institution, set up teams to prepare access funds programmes. The survey conducted by the World Economic Forum through the research and opinion of the managers of the most problematic factors affecting business in Croatia in 2004 listed inefficient bureaucracy, corruption, tax legislation, inadequate labour force. At the same time, Croatia fell on the competitiveness scale and grew on the corruption scale. It is high time to start removing negative factors, and this is not possible unless funds are provided in the budget. I'm going to stand out here just an example of the State Administration, where the mass of salary funds didn't increase unlike other sectors. The consequence is that professional and capable people are leaving. But this government obviously doesn't care. From the jumbo posters these days, you're saying "reduced unemployment." Yeah, but there's one addition missing, only the party-like ones are employed. For trainees with the highest rate rate in the university as we have recently witnessed, not only us but the entire Croatian public in such a state administration has no place. This increased spending side does not contribute to the state's savings. There are no clear signs of state savings anywhere, as all ministries have an increase in funding for material costs. Some increases are really impressive, so 7.5 times the funds for car purchase for government and parliament's needs have been increased. We at the SDP Club don't ask the current prime minister to drive as former in Passat, but we don't think a little modesty would hurt. We read just as the Minister of Justice has been most concerned these days about how the public will react to the new Audi in which it is recently driving, rather than being worried about the above-mentioned affair over judicial practitioners. It can also be read from the budget that this government is incapable of solving problems in this country. The arguments for this are found in this budget where there are no new projects, the rate of economic growth is unambitious and unsecured development, there are no necessary reforms and no hotspots are located that promote the deficit. Artificial deficit reduction and such a policy will only lead to economic and social breakdowns. The objectives set and this budget as drawn up lead to the sale of Croatia. This year, privatisation revenues of 4 billion and 400 million kuna are planned and only from the sale of INA and Croatia insurance. In the budget projection by 2007, if this continues, it means that next year we will sell HEP and JANAF, and by 2007, we will sell out everything. This kind of privatisation does not go hand in hand to the citizens of Croatia. Each government should aim at strengthening national capital. However, here it should be said that it is a consistent HDZ policy, as the Croatian government promised the IMF a quick privatisation agreement. Since the promise to Croatian citizens to preserve the national treasure, there is nothing again. The more the government withdraws dividends from public and state-owned companies that have so far been treated as retained profits and used to finance the company itself for new investments, development, modernisation and new jobs. In the previous period, privatisation revenues have been used to fill Regional Development and Employment Funds. Now that money goes into consumption as well as withdrawing dividends, and we believe that this is a devastating policy and a devastating direction for the Republic of Croatia. We fear that this budget does not correspond to the "Let's start Croatia", unfortunately it no longer corresponds to the "Stop Croatia", but "Let's start Croatia, but in a bad direction". This is witnessed by this budget, but also by the citizens themselves, 60% of whom, during a recent survey on HTV, said they believe that things are going badly in Croatia and only 36% of the citizens generally approve of the moves and decisions of the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader. Because of this poll and the awareness that the government is rapidly losing support for citizens, a budget has been created to save the government. Because of all the arguments I've put out here on behalf of the SDP Club, we can't support this kind of budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25662	Thank you very much. We have four corrections to an incorrect quote and one replica. The first correction to an incorrect quote by Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25663	Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representative has really said a number of incorrect allegations. I'll correct this first factually incorrect quote. She said the budget is an expression of a short-term policy that will only exist until the local elections. It's just not true. For the first time with the budget you have a projection of the 2006 and 2007 budget in terms of time continuity. So it's actually incorrect that you said that the expression of financial policy is only for the next six months and it's not just the term for the next fiscal year but also the projections for 2006 and 2007. That's one thing. And from other incorrect allegations, factual allegations such as the first one, this is the government's inability to solve problems in the country or that they are employees and are employed only by party similarity. This is not only incorrect but it is too much for SDP's pre-election meetings and not for a reasoned debate over this speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25664	Thank you very much. Correction of Mrs. Maria Byte's incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25665	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mrs Opacic said in her debate in a number of incorrect allegations that the draft budget maintains the ruling majority at the expense of the Republic of Croatia. This is incorrect because the proposed priorities of the budget are judicial reform, public administration reform, science reform and education, continuation of infrastructure projects, permanent crops in agriculture, irrigation. Therefore, the budget includes all announced reforms and all promises related to maternity benefits, child allowance, indexation of pensions and defence rights, which means that the budget has been allocated 10% higher than in 2004 for sport 27.8%, for education 3%, and that is around 300 million kuna, which means that pre-election promises are carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25666	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25667	Thank you, Mr. President. So again, I say a whole series of incorrect allegations and a little bit of normal bothers us, and this underestimating non-legal attitude and all this talk. But one of the false allegations is that real employment by party resemblance is as if we forgot in 2000 what was going on in those shifts and as if we forgot the end of 2003 when employment by the ministries and everywhere took so many swings and exclusively hired similar ones. As far as the cars were concerned, the last government, I had a good look at it, they were using exclusive casting, so it turned out to be a cover-up for driving in expensive cars, but not through shopping, but through lising. As far as your visionaryism is concerned, we know that in Kumrovec, until the 90th, it worked, but unfortunately you kept the ideology.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25668	Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Jura Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25669	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Opacic said the following. Retired people won't grow pensions except for three HUS deputies. It's just not true. According to the 2005 Budget proposal and the 2006 and 2007 projections, pensions need to grow on average 4% on the one hand, and on the other hand, this government is addressing the debt issue of pensioners in accordance with the law that we have passed, and unfortunately your coalition authority has not tried or thought to do during the four-year rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25670	Thank you very much. There are no business conditions for replicas, so Mr. Ivan Shuker says. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25671	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! I am pleased that after this debate of the SDP Club, there is no fundamental objection to the budget, and this is what I am particularly pleased as a representative of the Government because it is obvious that the budget is well-conceived and well-designed. The rhetoric is the same as last year. The funds will be enough until the local elections. Last year, we were told that it would be enough until the sixth month, however very interesting that the budget lasted 11 months and that there is no shortage of funds, however. The rebalancing covered a billion and 600 million of your unpaid liabilities from HZ and the rebalancing of these billions and 600 million were included in the budget because if you look at the 2003 Budget, then the expenditure for Croatian railways was 900 million and the expenditure for Croatian railways in the 2004 Budget were 2 billion and 800. These 2 billion and 800 include, among other things, 900 million of the two short-term loans that you have raised and which you have not recorded as a budget cost when you are already pulling me by the tongue and containing 600 million short-term credit costs that you have raised in 2002 and you have not recorded as a cost. So much for rebalancing. The complete HT dividend that will be withdrawn by the end of the year was used to repay the short-term loan for the Croatian railways that you raised in 2003 and you did not register it in the budget. And the economic effect was in 2003. What I would say is not true is that the expenditures were made first and then revenues were made because if I'm not mistaken, this government made fiscal projections in the sixth month, and it pointed them to the Croatian public. Therefore, when fiscal projections were made, the first estimated revenue side of the budget was done and after the projected revenue side of the budget normally to form the expenditure side of the budget. The fear that revenues will not be realised in this magnitude as provided for in the 2004 budget is simply not based on anything. The fight against the gray economy has already yielded results and, by establishing the Financial Police, we expect the results to be better. And I'd just like to mention something. In 2002, when the Excise Financial Police were abolished, they were transferred to Customs Monitoring that Carina had never done before, but no one had ever dealt with educating people at Customs about the charge of excise duties. You today have three people who have been trained to charge excise fees, which is somewhere around nine billion kunas of income from the state budget. And before that, it was the Financial Police. Therefore, why this was passed on to Customs, why people didn't educate themselves about it, I wouldn't want to talk about it. The reduction of HABOR funds is not true that it is an IMF dictatorship but simply another way of financing, a developed capital market and the possibility of obtaining credit. You know that until three, four years ago it was very difficult to get a loan with an interest rate below 7-8%. Today, business people get credits with an interest rate of 4-5%. The Development and Employment Fund, a very interesting creation that established the third line of credit in this country. In addition to the lending of entrepreneurship by the Ministry of Entrepreneurship, the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship of the Development and Employment Fund has established some kind of lending line, and in such a way a machine purchased from that asset could end up in the Kingdom. By which criteria and how those zero-and-two percent interest loans were distributed. One part of the loan went to the entrepreneur, then the business bank gave another part of the loan and I do not know at all who was in the interest of developing such a third line of credit for incentives and employment. Why if we already have HABOR, if we have the Ministry, if units of local self-government have concluded together with the Ministry of Entrepreneurship loans with business banks where individual units of local self-government have subsidized the interest rate. But very interesting why this Fund for Development and Employment developed this third line of credit that I say, by very strange criteria, at very strange interest rates, gave credit. And I don't think the original purpose and intensity of the Development and Employment Fund was to deal with that activity. I am, if I'm not mistaken, here when my previous Dr. The Church explained the reason for the establishment of the Development and Employment Fund was not his purpose, however, I say, when the report on the work of the Development and Employment Fund comes, it will be very interesting to see how the funds have been placed. It is interesting that with the increase of €220 million or in the gradual increase of 7.5% compared to 2004 we will not be able to do anything in agriculture and with 220 million anything could have been done less in agriculture. So, I just, I don't want to, I can't comment because, as far as the assessment of competitiveness and corruption is concerned, that assessment was made on the basis of 2003. As the 2004 corruption and competitiveness assessment will be announced in 2005. Because certain... and which, on the basis of which competitiveness and the assessment of corruption were made, are not related to 2003. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for salaries and increases and cuts in government salaries, if I am not mistaken under a subjugated agreement with the International Fund signed by the former government, the salaries are 10% reduced. Why is the reduction of salaries to workers in the tax administration 20% as stimulative wages and they are the ones who were supposed to fight the gray economy. And on the employment of party-like people, I think that employment in the customs administration is best spoken of by what is similar and what was the similarity. The growth rate is not a matter of good wishes, the growth rate is a real and real reflection of economic movements. Artificial deficit reduction. Yes, you're right. The artificial deficit reduction was in 2002 when the deficit projection was 6.2 and then artificially reduced to 4.8, and then it had to jump rapidly in 2003 to 6.3%. This 3.7% deficit is a real reflection at this point in the income and expenditure side of the budget. Croatia's sale. We're forgetting again who signed what kind of agreement and who made a commitment to what kind of privatisation. But at the moment when INE and HT privatisation contracts are published, then we can comment on some things, until that moment I can't take the right to talk about the content of the contract. And the obligation of quick privatisation is not contained in this stand by arrangement but is an obligation signed three years ago. Privatization revenues did not go to funds unfortunately, as the privatisation income from INE sales since last year served to cover current expenditures. And that's why the public debt last year, although the deficit was 12 billion, only increased by 7 billion because the rest was covered by the privatisation incomes from the INE. Therefore, this was the intention when the Fund was set up for development and employment that funds would be paid into the Fund by privatisation and that the funds derived from privatisation would be invested back in the economy. However, only last year, 505 million of INE sales were not paid into the Development and Employment Fund, but was with it, in fact, reduced the need for borrowing. So when you look at the Croatian National Bank's report on the growth of public debt last year, no matter how large the deficit was, over 12 billion kuna, the public debt increased only by 6 million kuna, because the need for borrowing with the basis of the funds used to sell INE reduced the need for borrowing. So, as far as the development component of this calculation is concerned. This budget has invested in capital projects 2 billion kuna already more than was the 2003 budget. And it's very interesting that with 12 billion they could do wonders and 14 billion to do something, there's nothing they can do. However, mathematics shows however, these two billion will give an important effect in economic growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25672	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that pursuant to Article 207(2), it is time for the application, for a debate of 10 minutes at 12.29. Now we have five corrections of the netted allegations. First, the correction of the incorrect quote is Ms. Ljubica Lalić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25673	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for correcting Mr. Secretary's guilty allegations when he said that the establishment of the financial police would increase financial discipline,... That's how it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I base my attitude on experience. Financial police were abolished in 2001. I remind my colleague at that time that in 2001, because of the efficiency of the financial police in this House, we passed the Law on the collection of unpaid claims because at that time, there were 23.5 billion kunas, there were no claims on the basis of taxes, contributions and customs. So, if the financial police had done their job properly, surely that law should not be passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25674	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25675	It is incorrect that the reduction of HABOR funds is not the result of the IMF Agreement. In this agreement, it states that 200 million will not be used in this year... the loans but also says that no guarantees will be used in the following year at the level followed by the HBOR precisely by those companies that did not have sufficient credits that would satisfy the commercial banks and were specifically related to export companies, especially the textile sector companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what the president of HABOR's administration said when discussing the 2003 report.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25676	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25677	When the minister speaks of the assessment, the degree of corruption in the Croatian World Economic Forum and says the assessment refers to last year, then it is incorrect. It concerns the first six months, this one, in 2004, and what she'll be in the other six months we don't know yet. But after the Zuzul affair and after hiring party likenesses in the prosecutions, I'm afraid it won't be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25678	Thank you very much. I will not, as I chair, engage in whether something is incorrect, correcting an incorrect assumption or just correcting an opinion so that it is a common practice until this institute is changed I will allow everyone to say whatever they want in those two minutes. While I'm here. How else will I not know! Because I mean throwing it and stuff, whether or not it's a correction, I can't judge it because it's everywhere so far, actually all the time it's been kind of on the border, and so we're not gonna waste any time to stop it. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Mato Churchvenac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25679	The Development and Employment Fund has very clear, clean criteria, not strange criteria. The criteria of this fund are that when there is a private capital of entrepreneurs and when a bank estimates a project is good, then if it has a particular interest in being in the field of special care, to hire, to draw young defenders and so on, then the fund, after being accepted by both the bank and the entrepreneur, helped. This fund may make it sound like an active state policy. It's what every other country in the world has. Thanks to this fund, we supported Vartex and without that fund, he would not have recovered all of his property from Serbia-Montenegro. As well as individual areas of the region. Through this fund, with relatively small funds, significant loans have been multiplied. And one more sentence. The fund should have drawn a relationship with European projects and funds. Unfortunately, no one today is able to design projects and drag European funds, and can be used through this fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25680	Thank you very much. We still have the correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25681	Thank you very much. Mr. Finance said that enough money has been allocated to agriculture in this regard, given the accession of the European Union and all that is needed. I must say that it is certainly not enough and I have made it very clear on behalf of the Committee here that all the MPs, all the MPs, agreed on. We don't see if there's enough money available, but it certainly isn't enough for agriculture because we know what the obligations are ahead of us, which is expecting us and that in any case it takes more money, and of course how available the government itself knows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25682	As you can see, this is just an expression of opinion, but there's no need to interrupt. He didn't say. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry, I heard wrong. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Libra, Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25683	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'll first say something about macroeconomic indicators of the budget, and then, of course, I'll talk about individual things. First of all, I'd like to commend the fact that with this budget on our benches, there's also a projection of the budget. That's definitely a good thing. Of course, the question remains whether this projection will remain a dead letter on paper, whether it will be respected because if we just go back to yesterday and remember what it looked like, there seemed a report on the implementation of the budget then it already raises constant doubts. Some, some items are spent with 60% and large, large items. Some with 40%, and a large number of those items with 0%. If it's fate and these projections, then it doesn't make sense if it's really going to be a projection that's going to be respected as much as it is then it's certainly a welcome. When it comes to revenue and expenditure, so these most global indicators of the budget, I would at first show our suspicion that this budget is even sustainable. All that is stated regarding the revenue of this budget raises serious doubts as to whether this budget will be sustainable at all. This is about increasing budget revenues by 5% compared to last year and tax revenues by 7.8%. If we know it's been, for the past half a year actually, half a year this year that we had the same opportunity yesterday to see we know that tax revenues were only 45.5%. It's strange how quickly in the second half of this year, and then next year, the finance ministry is planning such a strong growth in tax revenues. This year, in order to achieve the plan, it should grow in the second half of the year over 10%, and next year to the 10%, another 8%. It is very strange that there will be so many taxes and incomes or there will be such strong economic activity or there will be an increase in taxes. I would, of course, like this to be the first. We'll see what happens eventually. An even greater dilemma, or concern in this regard, is causing the growth of contributions. Contributions rise by 8.3% next year according to the budget plan. How is that possible? Is this going to mean that the contributions will increase so much that, of course, it would not be good. It'd be a payload. Does this mean that 10% will increase the number of employees to be welcomed but we don't see that happening or that's actually one projection that won't actually have anything to do with reality. The issue of pension increases is related to these contributions. We've passed a recent law by which pensions are in line with salary growth. If this increase in contribution will be the result of wage growth, then it will have to grow and pensions for so much. Well, then 1.2 billiards as scheduled for pension growth won't be enough. So it'll take about 10 percent to grow pensions. Somewhere around two, two and a half billion kunas. So already on this segment of income, the question is raised and this is a very serious question of the sustainability of this budget, and of course, the things that could have had a significant impact on them have not been affected by all the expenditures of the budget growing. Costs for employees are rising for a full 15%. The cost of material and energy and services for 7 and 13% respectively, and the growth and subsidies to companies by 3.3%, the aid within the state by 8%, the overall increase in these most essential expenditures that each country has globally to control is only those mentioned by 2 billion and 741 million kuna. Whether there will be enough funds for these expenditures is, of course, a big question. I have to show concern that this is actually a projection that will not be sustainable, that this budget is on glass feet and that it is actually one very dangerous budget because if the budget falls it's not just a question of the finance minister, it's not just a question of the ruling majority. It's a matter of the whole state. Now there's something about receipts or responsibilities. It is said, shortly before the finance minister and then the Prime Minister, as last year's debt amounted to 8.2 billion dollars. And the data quoted only by the Ministry of Finance, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, says that the debts, in 2002 there were 12 billion kunas. So somewhere around $2 billion. 2003. 21 billion kuna, and in 2004 at the time of government governance by this government, 20 billion kuna. How the Minister of Finance, or the Prime Minister, pulled out an 8.2 billion-dollar debt, which would have been roughly 50 billion kuna, and gave us 21 billion kuna in debt in 2003. Of course, it doesn't even say that he fell this year, he fell in charge. The debt has only increased a little less dynamics, so instead of last year's 21 billion kunas, we have 20 billion kunas. It is therefore a completely unreasonable political inflatation. If we do that, we'll never get to any truth. As far as next year's work goes, it's about $12 billion worth of securities and external loans. It's hard to talk about the downfall. But that's why the sale of shares in public-owned companies, i.e. the ownership of public-owned companies, has increased to 4 billion kuna. That's 296%. Speaking in a dictionary so often used by today's ruling majority of their members, including the minister himself, this increase in the sale of national wealth by nearly 300% to 4 billion kuna, which is only a substitute for a slight decrease in external debt, that is, of course, the sale of Croatia. It's the sale of family silver and so on. In the past few years, we've heard stories like this all the time, and that 300 percent growth in the sale of public enterprises is what it is. And that's the only thing that makes up for actually a small drop in external duty from which it's such a big story, so of course I'd like the minister to say something more about it. Another general observation concerning the budget is, in fact, only its increases. The budget is growing more than the gross national product is growing. What does that mean? This means that the share of the country's domestic wealth is growing. Croatia is still a state that has too much budget today. Croatia must go towards reducing the budget and most of the gross social product must be created and spent outside the state authority. The state must only create conditions, and here with this budget the GDP growth is designed 4.4% and the budget growth is 5%. This means that next year the share and so large share of the state in the budget in the total gross national product will be greater which, of course, is not and cannot be a good trend. And another note that can be considered a besieged is the question of support. Supports in Croatia are, according to some data, 7 times larger than shifts were supposed to be. Supports in Croatia bear 3 and a half percent of gross national product, and some average level in Europe is about 0.5% of the country's gross national product. This proposal does not reduce subsidies, not reduce support, but increase them. We don't increase them, though, a lot, but that's not the problem. The problem is that they do not shrink, so subsidies of 5 billion and 257 million are growing 3% this year. Next year's full 10%. The subsidies are a sign that something is wrong with the market economy in one country, they say that the state is not modern, bad forms of competition are created, or competition is avoided. In particular, sector subsidies, and subsidies here do not fall but are growing in 2006 according to the projection drastically. For 10%. It's the same situation with help within the state. And now a few remarks about individual resolutions. I'll look back here only on two resistors. It is the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports that grows by 4.3%. Let us remember those announcements by the minister, the minister of modelling, that he will demand that the budget for the Ministry of Education and Sport's Ministry be increased by a billion and a half kuna. We, of course, welcome such an increase, that would be the real interest of the state. But there has been an increase of 350 million kuna, and the projection is also not particularly favourable for the sector. But nothing happened. It was just a show, throwing dust in the eyes of the public. Parade. And the concern is actually saying, and the projection itself and it doesn't really talk much about the growth of funds in the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports. So in 2007, 10 billion and 12 million kuna are planned. Which the Prime Minister himself considered to be some sort of huge success. If we count the projection of the growth of gross national product inflation in those three years that growth to 10 billion kuna in 2007, it will actually be below the growth of gross national product and inflation. Which means that the share of education, science and higher education will be in the gross national product if these projections are shown to be correct. Smaller than it is today. And in order for Croatia to reach Europe, there must be a real increase in the detachment in this segment by 10% annually, and as we know Europe lags behind America and Japan, and great debates are being held in Europe to increase the isolation in these segments in order to reach America in technological terms. And so we for these three years and it is announced as a great success will actually be kept somewhere approximately at today's estimated level of the share of the cost of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in the country's total gross national product. Which, of course, can't be good. And that's why, in such words, I have assessed what the minister had announced. And when that didn't happen, then nothing happened to anyone. After that, you should probably withdraw some sequencings. And just a few more notes with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. I think it's a small amount I welcome, but it's a small amount that's supposed to be raised here for many years. We know that in three years we need to raise about 50,000 acres of vineyards, not vineyards, but orchards and olive groves. And about tens of thousands of acres of vineyards. That 80 million kuna won't be enough. It needs to be increased. And equally, the funds that are planned for 30 million kuna irrigation are actually just symbolic. For 30 million kunas next year, and then growth is large, but still too little is only 100 million kuna. In three years, you can only actually implement some experimental and educational programs. but you cannot in any way correct the irrigation that is actually the cancer of early Croatian farmers. And that's something to say good-bye to, but this won't be enough. And we'll be in those two segments if these are the only sources we're actually going to be where we are today. And in the end, I would like to welcome the announcements of the Prime Minister, that is, those of his priorities that he left on the budget. I think they're well-assembled, it's macroeconomic stability, that is, the decline in deficits, the support for economic growth, unfortunately only state-owned companies, he just said that. Employment and so on. We are particularly supportive in this context and the fifth criterion is to bring the European Union closer. But we're afraid it'll be nothing. There is a risk that this budget increases the government budget deficit overall, subsidies are increased and will grow further. The share of the budget in the gross social product is also increasing. And these are all the tendencies that are contrary to what is happening to Europe. This budget will therefore be questioned and the speed of our accession to Europe. Therefore, these are the reasons why the Club of Libre will be against this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25684	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you used the term "minister model" or whatever you said. It's not appropriate. It's not appropriate. If that's a compliment then we'll provide you with various compliments in that style and to you, if that's a compliment. I think that's inappropriate. I'm not going to give you a warning, but I'm publicly saying that such expressions here for the Assembly Speaker are particularly inappropriate on behalf of the Club. I would also like to point out to the MPs that there are over 70 people who have applied for the debate plus a few clubs that have not yet received their word. And I also note that for correcting an incorrect quote, one minute is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure and that I will interrupt anyone who extends it, because as we report a lot, we will never finish this debate. Also, this, uh, breach of the Rules of Procedure is scheduled for 1 minute, so I ask everyone to stick to who appears and the third replica takes 2 minutes and a response to the replica 2 minutes. So I think we're going to have to strictly stick to these Rules of Procedures, and now, please, here's the 5 for correcting the incorrect quote, so make sure it's a minute. First, Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25685	The first incorrect allegation is in relation to yesterday's debate, because it was not about carrying out the budget annually but half-yearly, and then I can no longer wonder at budget implementation in percentages of 35, 40, or 40 or more. The other incorrect allegation is actually all of those, those figures that we had the opportunity to sense, and they were also related to the foreign debt commentary. So, external debt. All the incorrect statements Mr. Rados here made when he commented or spoke about the public debt relative to what happened this year and regarding the projection of public debt, the external debt for next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25686	Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Branimir Pasecky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25687	Mr. President, I must first of all say that it is incorrect that the budget is on glass feet. The budget is documented, whether all its items will be fulfilled in the foretold, it may be due, as is this due diligence whether Mr. Radosh or I will welcome the day tomorrow. And the next thing I know, I'm sorry Mr. Radosh as a minister wasn't a model.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25688	As we have determined that it is not an insult, then we will cross over this insult. On Mr. Radosh's suggestion that it's not an insult. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25689	Yes, Mr. President, I will very explicitly correct the incorrect data and replace the thesis grew by, does not mean that he came on, therefore, the foreign debt increased by 8.2 billion in 2003, was over 24 billion. Unfortunately, in 2004, it's huge, somewhere around 20, if we're talking interest-free, but it's only increased by $2.8 billion, I repeat, it's still worrying, and there's one bright spot that in September this year it's reduced by 100 million kuna. These are accurate data that the public needs to know and correct Mr. Radosh's incorrect quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25690	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Niko Rebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25691	Thank you. Similarly, there is actually a lot of correctness, but we heard similar debate about the sustainability of the budget at the beginning of this year. At the beginning of the year, you said that the state does not settle its obligations, does not pay the bills, you foretold almost certain bankruptcy of the state. You actually knew what you had left for this government and for your surprise, what happened? There has been economic growth, growth in industrial production 3%, continued decline in unemployment and gentlemen from the opposition, don't worry, Croatia under the leadership of this government is going in a good direction, our ministers have not come on bicycles and will not go to Mercedes. So they're going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25692	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25693	Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct the incorrect assumption that the sale of Croatia will cover only a small part of the debt. Well, Croatia's sales are actually all dues, these external debts if we're a responsible state and if we know that these debts should be paid back, and you should have known that when you're in charge of the last 15 billion dollars that we actually sold out Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25694	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25695	Mr. Vice President, my colleagues have not corrected my incorrect allegations. Mr. Pasecky said he disagreed with my assessment that the budget was on glass feet. It may be, but it's not a correction to an incorrect quote, but I'd like to be here, which is much more important to say about external debt. Mrs Ivana Sučec-Thrakoštanec and Mr Tomljanović dispute my claims about the debt, and that is not true. It says on page 1 of the budget that in 2004, there were 21 billion 395 million kuna, and for 2003 there were 12 billion and 802 million kuna. In 2004, the year 2005 was 16 billion 589 million kuna. Where is it, this is a document by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, where is the 8.2 billion dollar debt increase in 2003? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25696	Mr. Representative, if these aren't who you quoted didn't correct the incorrect allegations, you didn't call for an article of the Rules of Procedure that was injured, so you also violated the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25697	That's 209.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25698	Yeah. And now there's a word I hope for a short time, Minister of Finance Mr. Ivan Shucker, because we're going to break up and the first afternoon is going to be Mr. Pritchard.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25699	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So just because of the Croatian public, unfortunately fellow Rados, Mr. Rados confused the concepts of credit, public debt and external debt and tried to compare what was simply impossible to compare. So, Mr. Prime Minister said this morning, that's what I said, the external debt of the Republic of Croatia, so the debt of both the private sector and the bank and the state increased by 8.2 billion dollars last year, and this year by 2.8 billion. What you're talking about is 21 billion, it's the payment of old loans, so, old ones, it's not an increase in debt. Last year's public debt increased by six and another billion kuna, and this year you are scheduled to pay out 4 and a half billion kuna and that's an integral part of your budget expenditure and increase the deficit. At the same time, you have 12.37 billion kuna to pay off, and it's very embarrassing when you come out here and start mixing and comparing something you can't compare. Because you can't say that 21 billion are paying off the principal and interest last year can be compared to the external debt. It's just data that's incomparable. So this year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will have the total amount of payment 12.37 billion kuna and 4 and a half billion kuna interest plus it will actually have a payment, it will have a debt for highways and roads 3.2 billion. And that's the need for borrowing this year to reprogram old debts. Also, you have looked a little bit better, over the last years of the report on the implementation of the budget as regards the revenue side, then you will see that in the first six months and the execution of between 44 and 45% and the collection of budget revenue in all years is always at least 10% higher in the second half of the year than it was in the first half of the simple reason for the structure of the Croatian economy, therefore, because of the tourist season and everything, and in all recent years it has been, and as regards the sale of assets, the privatisation income in 2003 was 3.6 billion, and in 2005, 4 billion are planned. Well, there's a big income difference from privatisation in 2002 that was also close to 4 billion kuna, and this year it's under billions of kuna. So you compare data that are simply incomparable, but the worst thing is when you start playing with data that you unfortunately don't understand, but that's why you call your colleagues models.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25700	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25701	Mr. President, it could, of course, be a violation of the Rules of Procedure because the minister says I don't understand things, and I can also tell him that he doesn't understand things. Mr. Minister, we're talking about what duties they're in. These duties are also spent, though, to pay off, of course, earlier principals or interest, but it is equal to the duty. We're talking about this assignment here. To talk about public debt as citizens' debt is something that has nothing to do with this budget. It could be $8.2 billion, but we're talking about this debt, the debt of the state, and it's very explicitly done and written here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25702	Thank you very much. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 14 o'clock. Not in 15, but in 14, I repeat, and the first in the debate is the representative of the HDZ Club, Mr. Šime Prtnječa.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25703	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. The Honorable Representative of the Shima Rifle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25704	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! Since this is an extremely important topic because it is an annual budget and also a guideline for the next two years with countless extremely significant data, it is difficult in short to highlight all the most significant characteristics. So I will avoid the traps of carrying out countless data and figures to try to clarify what this government's goal is, which is this budget and what is the framework for the next period that awaits us. In this context, it is often said that this government or because I speak on behalf of the HDZ Club has no vision, no development projects, no goals. I'm trying and proving the opposite today. The vision of this government and HDZ is to enter Europe but to enter Europe at the rate of sustainable growth by addressing employment problems, addressing development, resolving the social situation of science development and other sectors of society. In this we also want to be one of the model countries, and this is what we have been doing so far and we are doing so, and so we hold that in this vision of this final entry we will achieve that. The objectives we want to achieve up to and after this step and the specific objectives and priorities are defined in several general objectives. But let me point out in the introduction, still in the opening part of the two basic goals. In the short term, introduce order into public finances and limit their conditionality to a major external deficit and trade deficit. Second, medium-term goals. Reduce the role of the state. Indeed, it is necessary to gradually approach this goal in order to improve the private sector and thereby its competitiveness in a competition in Europe that will be harsh. And also encourage direct foreign investment by making up for that part of the funds that are not sufficient either in their own accumulation or in their imported accumulation so that we can ensure these objectives. It is only to be reminded that we are being held back by one piece, I do not want to talk about past times and not to look back at anyone's views because everyone has the right to their vision, their views, their goals, I try to assess what it is today that restricts us in these activities. We have the fact that there is a significant deficit in the external-trade payment account, that the fiscal deficit is still significant and that external debt is at the limit of tolerance. That's the three-determiners to go from. Fortunately, on today, we can conclude that all three of these definitions gradually give way, which means that economic flows are going in positive directions. In this context, the foreign trade deficit and the fiscal deficit generate external debt because when it is necessary to spend and there is not enough of its own accumulation must be taken. Such a debt and part of the deficits are converted into investments, especially investment in public infrastructure and within what is good and on the other hand, since it makes the highest GDP growth rate questionable in the longer run whether it can be generated from debt, whether economic development can be generated. Secondly, the issue of encouraging individual citizens' debt is also another in the sense of a determinant that conditions the growth of GDP and also since it consists mainly of lending to citizens from credit to banks at this time shows the biggest increase in the purchase and consumption of personal cars and is an increase in the GDP but on the other hand the promotion of industry or foreign employment. Therefore, this logic and this policy are no longer and it was either the backbone or the basis of the so-called economic so-called so-called so-called so-called economic policy. development and growth. We believe that this cannot be the direction of economic growth that can lead us to competition in Europe in the future, and therefore we believe that within that it is necessary to restructure and that the funds for this are drawn not only from the budget, I repeat once again that their own accumulation is not sufficient and that the increased accumulation is but controlled and reduced and also, in particular, by these measures of fiscal and monetary policy should foster foreign investments which can also be one segment in the development of society and state. Within fiscal policy and fiscal policy objectives, I will only point out some of the goals that we must achieve in this time, or we can realistically achieve. Balanced development means consistent with these mentioned sources and opportunities, as well as addressing these problems which we have also cited in particular in the area of employment. The implementation of a fiscal adjustment that will lead to a reduction in the general government deficit below 3% said where we were lucky if we could get to 2.7 around 3% somewhere but that would allow us to have acceptable control of public expenditures and deficits that society can endure. The stabilisation of public debt is now about 77 or somewhere around it, but we hold 60 percent of the GDP to be significant or that would only allow for the rest of the other part because it is actually about redistributing the funds that would then be intended for other purposes if we succeed in achieving these goals and we hold that it is possible or we set that goal. Then stabilising the external debt that now revolves around about 80 percent but it must go below so that we can achieve complete control of the task. To reduce state intervention, I also said briefly in those primary objectives in the next period, especially leaving this role to entrepreneurship, which should take over gradually its role in society for the development of society, market, competition. The reduction in fiscal burdens due to an increase in competitiveness of the economy again similar to the previous target which is then reflected within the budget. Increase private sector activities but I have pointed out earlier from which possible directions or sources can be achieved. The fiscally acceptable public administration, but now here we have the pay data, the increase, etc., indexation that we have but also the fact that when we enter the European Union, we need to absolutely increase the number of people who will work in state services on a different distribution than today and with other tasks. The system of responsible and controlled strategic management of public expenditure is, in fact, the management of public debt is one of the most important functions of the government as well as a total because by active policy of impact on income, it is absolutely that public debt management is the second pillar of society management. Improved fiscal discipline in the health sector, this raises doubts about the reduction of rights, etc. but this does not mean that patients should be reduced rights but it can be carried out more rationally and management actually public debt within it because it can be said that public debt has been paid. I say improved fiscal and social sustainability as part of how we can achieve and be competitive. Of course, I am supplementing that previous information on possible sources and directions that European pre-accession funds are a very significant part of the stabilisation of the economy within society but also of cross-cutting relations in order to achieve harmonised development within it. Within these fiscal objectives, of course, macro-economic policy should, I will only point out some because it is already highlighted here and the minister and the prime minister have highlighted the data and will be in the debate later that the gross national income rates, inflation, then the current balance of payments deficit and the general government deficit must be in the given guidelines and we believe that they can be realised. Since they're written I won't repeat them they have their own dynamics that we're setting as a goal that we're going to achieve. The macroeconomic policy, I'm just going to say two, but there are a whole series of policies to be implemented within that sector. The doubts whether to maintain the course of the kuna or the interval relations or not in this regard, I think that Croatia does not have too much choice and that in the future it also needs to maintain the stability of the kuna. But it also points out that by the end of the year, the CNB will hope to move to an open market for market operations by the end of the year to achieve a certain liberalisation but progress and the situation in which it is. Because that's the question of whether or not the country is going to be in debt outside. Or they'll be in charge of it. We think that these goals are completely realistic that they can be achieved in the next time, and only a few of the data that I hold should be highlighted within that. We saw the deficit from 2004 to 2007 from 4 and a half to two nine, about 2.7 to 2.9 if we finally held it to be acceptable. But to make it possible. So from this deficit, we think we can move forward. As regards the deficit of public enterprises, in particular HACA. Croatian roads, railways, and others we hold that they can be serviced. We're talking about the deficit, but also that part of the source from two sources is being financed as a rule from its own sources. In which they achieve a deficit or also in that part of the budget, which also fills that they can achieve their development goals. And that all the fear that he won't develop today is completely unwarranted and moving forward. For this reason we hold that this income for which there are also doubts whether he is real is not real, we believe that he is absolutely realistic. Because the economic movements of today, I was in the CNB yesterday an analysis of today's movement, or these days, by the economic estimates of course that are available there, suggest that they can actually be realized and realized. And that impact, the greatest impact on inflation was the impact of oil prices, which of course the Croatian state could not intervene or react to. And as it shows a slight reduction and stabilisation, we hold that, realistically, it will then be set and these goals will be achieved by the end of the year. That's why we believe the revenues foreseen by 86.4 billion are realistically possible. We have seen the structure of income from which tax revenues account for 51 and some percent, and then those other particularly social ones, and these social ones should have a gradual tendency to yield over the next period. It is precisely to free up space so that a part of the development funds can be released in that segment. The total expenditure in this time and this comment on the salaries that we've been leaving since this year and we end up in 2207 with 98.6. They point out that this deficit can also be serviced and that structure and cross-sectoral relations within ai budget and especially within a society can carry out their function through such a redistribution. And to achieve that part as some say, fairer distributions, or goals that we want to achieve in the future, so that cross-sectoral relations can develop evenly. Here the question arises, it seems to me to be one, and at least I feel it, one of the most important issues or fear, and what about shipbuilding in terms of labour intensive activity, with the other part capital intensively with the third part of the major aid that the state is investing in that sector which is actually going to happen. BUT of course, like other sectors in society, there must be some adjustment. But that the sea in this time can end through employment is also highlighted are basic goals, and as here goes the time quickly. I would also like to point out that those doubts about local self-government, i.e. local and regional development in Croatia, are that with all those measures envisaged fiscal policy. In that part of the adoption of income tax laws, through reliefs and all other measures, and on the other hand by incentives through employment, development and funds that will be in it. It is also possible to achieve a more even development of Croatia. Of course, it should also be aimed at decentralisation in Croatian spaces in the right sense. Because usually observations begin in the direction of centralisation within the state when it is said towards Zagreb. To change the economic situation. Because there was a centralization, for example, of the banking sector, which has become the main one from all over Croatia, and then, according to its foreign market headquarters. And in the end, when we talk about extra budget funds, we should just point out maybe in two thoughts, that these extra- budget funds will share the fate of previous objectives, visions of the objectives of the development strategy. And within that, measures that are taken through these measures through the budget and through the next ones that are coming. In the end, we look absolutely at future times optimistic about the future of the Croatian state, not completely. Of course we'll be able to say that, because even in the introduction, someone said that, with all these measures and everything else, we must finally understand in Croatia that in Croatia we must live primarily from order and work, something will help us Hi, but we do more to him. Because our destiny is in our hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25705	Thank you very much. That was Mr. Shime of the Wrestle and the name of the HDZ Club. Now respected representative Joseph Sudec on behalf of the Club of HSU. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25706	Mr. President, for the first time, the budget is being monitored without television cameras. It is a unique case in this young Croatian democracy for no longer than 15 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25707	Thank you very much. Mr. Caine, you don't have a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25708	And I can have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25709	You can't have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25710	It's a club break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25711	You can't win because that's no reason for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25712	That's no reason. Let's see what's going on. On Prisavlje.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25713	Mr. Cain, finish your raids. Here you go, fellow Judge.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25714	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry I've had a cold, so I'm going to turn to you with a little deeper voice. Here is the budget for the most responsible act and the most sensitive. In it is the meaning of all our promises, all our hopes and reality, and also our disappointments. The purpose of the budget is to realistically assess the development and social component and to bring it into line with economic growth, and the opportunities for social balance. I must say that the government has achieved some balance in relation to the social economic and political aspect that it wants to achieve. The budget sets certain political objectives, they are materialised here, which means that the government programme has been transferred to a range of programmes and activities for which it has been provided and material views. This government's programme is expressed through several significant areas and programmes, and I define a year ago in opening speeches, it is now materially created into the 2005 budget. And a projection for 2006 and 2007. This 2006 and 2007 projection is only a structural criterion for measuring the success of the implementation of the Government's programme. We are not all thrilled with the cookies that are distributed but we are aware that by agreeing in the Assembly and some amendments and additions we can come to a balance of our needs and possibilities. The simplest said draft budget contains a series of programmes that guarantee and develop programmes that reflect and increase social security, but above all it is stable. Retired people, as always, are afraid of these words stabilisingly because in 93 they felt what it means to implement a stabilisation program. We're also afraid of stabilising budgets. However, we continue to read or read that the programme, i.e. the budget, is set as a basic stabilisation of the share of foreign debt in the social gross product at approximately its current level, which means reducing the budget deficit and continuing structural reforms that will reduce the role of the state in the economy. The programme of the medium-term business plan of the Croatian Railways to reduce dependence on the subvenics today has also received some documents where the railway is warning us what condition it is and what we can bring it into if we do not have hearing about its reconstruction and modernisation, especially on the day of accession to the European Union. Then the programme of further privatisation especially Croatia's insurance and third phase privatisation of Croatian Telekom. The most important instrument in creating programme objectives is fiscal policy, so order is introduced, transparency in public finances and the process of consolidation in the medium term. The beginning of consolidation in 2004 planned a lack of the general government budget for 4 and a half of the value of the social gross product, while the next one should not cross 3.7 in 2005. Payment policy, investment in roads, highways, and spending in the health sector are measures of fiscal policies affecting expenditure, but at the same time stabilising consumption. We, in Croatia, think of the party of pensioners as that the coordination or regular harmonisation of pensions is foreseen a billion 200 million per total mass, and the total mass is not going to coordinate pensions, because part goes for child's allowance, part goes for the business of the service. [[/Intruder: How about a little louder?]] So, that amount is about 21 billion, so we have to count on this part, but we estimate that with an additional billion kuna, that additional obligation or additional commitment made between the Retirement Party and HDZ could be made to reach 50, the average pension of 50% of the average salary in 2005. So the difference is not great, but the question is, where does the funds come from? In the gray economy, it revolves around about 8 billion incomes that the state is wronged about. If financial policy is introduced, it could be halved. 34 billion will do us good to patch up these holes. The second introduces more order in the collection of state finances and is projected to improve the charge by 2 billion. And here there is a certain possibility that this obligation will be fulfilled and that the pensioners will finally come upon their own. It's something that would be in the end line socially, and since the pensioners are the best paid, they will very quickly pass it on through various, billings to our utility and other companies. And in the end, we're introducing a fund, a retirement fund to collect debt to the pensioners. I believe that two million initial funds should be provided for its start, that the fund can work at all. He'll tell me, so he'll sell, but while he's selling, he'll have to do something and he'll have to be provided if we're seriously counting on him, at least this initial asset. Here, these are our remarks and our suggestions, I apologize for having a hard time speaking for the cold, but I think we have time and opportunity to meet these demands, and in that case we support the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25715	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go. Excuse me, Agent Cain?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25716	Your Honor, Mr. President. The IDS Club is looking for a 30-minute break because of an attempt to avoid the public. It never happened that the budget was discussed without "the presence of television cameras". There's no greater reason than to follow up on the assembly sessions, down to follow up on the budget debate. It is, it is not I do not know the Animal Wellbeing Act which is an extremely important law, it is a budget, which represents 4.3 million inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia that determines the future development of this country and therefore we do ask you in front of the Club IDS to enable us to take a break so that these reasons can be made public later, and in the meantime we hold that you will use all your authority and provide the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with the opportunity to monitor the session of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25717	Agent Cain. The HRT Programme Council and the HRT Directorate shall decide sovereignly on the time, periods of direct transfer of parliamentary sessions. So I don't approve of your break, because it's also beyond business reasons, referring to events outside the assembly. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek, on behalf of the HSS Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25718	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, the main dilemma about the 2005 Budget is whether it is developmental or social for the HSS does not exist at all. That's why we won't be trapped to discuss this warlock in such a way. From its financial lines, but as well as accompanying documents and legal environments, the budget is exclusively in the function of the upcoming presidential but local elections. The money is scattered in all positions, on the trail of last election promises and with false hope that the world will be pink if the same political option is supported in the next election. After that, a rebalance will follow next May, which will set up some new frameworks that are clearly already agreed in negotiations with the international monetary fund. The electoral body should be caught on such a glue according to the already seen scenario and direction as a result of a reduction in the VAT rate which was the main pre-election promise, as well as the biggest post-election disappointment. Of course, apart from the scenario already seen, actors, but also the audience, the electorate remains the same, and in order to make it look even more convincing, we also received the projections of the State budget, i.e. false hopes for 2006 and 7 years. At the same time through the Law on the implementation of the state budget, we have received a para-state budget that will be made available to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and individuals will be able to dispose of it according to their own intentions. In fact, the law provides for as much as 332 million and 900 thousand kunas of budget stock, the government of the Republic of Croatia's use, the prime minister proposes up to 500 thousand, and the finance minister up to 100,000 kuna. Thanks to such a model, it is likely that, as this year, 3 million kuna from the budget stock will be paid for the Internetization project of the Government of Croatia, not from budgetary positions, as the Law does. It is an interesting position called guarantees, and is also in favour of budget rebalances, the 2005 budget. They are heavy 4 billion kunas, which are said to be extremely eligible for financial and legal guarantees. Guarantees will be issued on the basis of a stockpile of the applicant's assets, and if the applicant has no assets, it can exceptionally provide other insurance instruments. Which, of course, the law doesn't say. For the core capital of HBOR, for the share in loans and for the subsidy of interest, 600 million kuna is secured. I hope that due to such relations between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the HBOR, the HBOR will not become a savings facility where credit lines will continue to be used for the Ministry of Finance because 100 million kuna credits have been used for the Ministry of Finance in the past two months alone. Thanks to discretionary law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia may have the capacity to add all of this together with nearly 5 billion kuna, without the Parliament asking anything about it. Moreover, the majority of those spent do not even need to be informed of the Parliament. Of course, that story doesn't stop. The government also has a further discretionary right given through the law as it can, at the request of the obligor, postpone payment or grant a flat-rate payment of outstanding public fees, read taxes and contributions. Of course, there are no criteria in the law but can be decided according to the colour of the eyes of the seekers or do not give God a party. In a situation of growing indifference generated just as long payment deadlines exist, thanks to the non-payment of state institutions, but at the same time, while requiring bills for electricity, water, oil to be paid at the same time per minute. I guess that's why almost 50% of entrepreneurs will have to demand a postponement for taxes and contributions. However, since there are no criteria, it can be assumed that something previously seen will be repeated. Someone's going to get a payment delay for several million kunas because it's a state interest, under quotes, and the craftsman's shop will be closed due to the tax deficit of several kunas. In order to strengthen the tax press and pick up the hackers on stage, the Financial Police will return who will also have a discretionary right to decide without a methodology already known how much the entrepreneur owes to the state. Of course, the Financial Police are making an accusation, making a verdict, resolving the complaint, and if the entrepreneur is not satisfied, he can address the Administrative Court. Of course, the entrepreneur must pay, and after that he may expect to return the ruling of the Administrative Court after 3, 4 years if he survives and 3, 4 years. Tax revenues are in the state budget 51 billion and 300 million kuna, and if a delay in tax and contribution is requested only for 10%, we can conclude that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will place more than 5 billion kuna in this para-state discretionary budget, which, with guarantees and supplies, creates a size of 10 billion kuna. It's an impressive number. I'd like to see an entrepreneur who wouldn't want to be good with such a rich government or who, God forbid, would say something bad in pre-election campaigns about poor government efficiency or lack of program because... projected not only for them, but even for municipalities and cities that cannot be debt-free if the total debt of municipalities, cities and counties is greater than 2% of their incomes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, discretion will decide which city or municipality will be given the opportunity to borrow, take credit, and it does not matter that they have never taken any credit in history or that they will use some of the sources of access funds to the European Union. How the great brother thinks about all things through this Law is the fact that the child’s child’s life is due during the use of maternity leave from 6 months to 1 year. You can receive a maximum of 600 to 2 and a half thousand kuna regardless of the average wage, and an even greater nonsense is at agriculture. God forbid you're a farmer because you can get as much as 1,000 kunas no matter how much taxes and contributions you paid to the state or how much income you made when you were farming. Also one big negative discrimination. The least effective in using the budget yesterday was mentioned during the execution for 6 months by the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, which spent 83.5% for wages and for their own expenses and for the care of Croatian defenders 67.6% and for the protection of family, motherhood and youth only 15% of the planned 30 million kuna. Of course, there is now something more intense during the presidential campaign because the minister leaves several million kunas in the tour of cities and municipalities everywhere. Of course, it will be denied, it will be embellished because next year the Minister of Promotion plans to spend a lot more or almost a million kunas. Recorder by ineffectiveness yesterday...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25719	Comrade Pacek, just one moment to welcome the Bhujo High School of Economics, which followed some of the debate. Here you go. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25720	The record of ineffectiveness yesterday, and also today, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, which by half of November spent only 23% and none of the planned million and 750 thousand kunas for the development of the competitiveness of the export economy, the promotion of small shipbuilding with 15%, for the development of the craft of none of the 2 million kuna, for the financing and employment of the disabled none of the estimated 19 million kuna, for the local lending of any estimated 7 million kuna, so it is no wonder that no credit for crafters has been granted so far. For women entrepreneurship only 1.3%, for vocational schools nothing, no kuna, for local development projects nothing, for the development of cooperatives only 9%, for entrepreneurship centres and incubators and young entrepreneurs also nothing, etc., etc. It would be too long to list what is below 10% use or for which no kuna is paid. However, this will not be difficult to defend because, also in this ministry, 85% more money or 5 million 695 thousand kuna is planned for the promotion next year. What will be the budget in the post of promotion for the presidential and local elections tells us the following figures. 38% more Public Relations Office in 2005 compared to the year before. 25% Office of State Administration in County. 115% more Office for Development Strategy. Moreh even 6 million 810 thousand kuna for the promotion. Ministry of Agriculture 100% more than or 5 million kunas. The Ministry of the Sea, tourism is 89% higher than or 2 million kuna. The Ministry of Science 490% higher. The Department of Health 46% more or 2 million and 200 thousand kuna. By the way, the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Stjepan Mesic, has only 665 thousand kuna in this position, which is also written here in the Budget. This amount of promotion funds will succeed in defending Minister Shuker's claim that the current Government of the Republic of Croatia will invest more resources in development than the former coalition government has done, however, it will be difficult to explain that the development rate will be slightly higher than 4% and not 5% of what the former lower-investment government had, however, it will still be difficult to defend despite this major promotion. However, thanks to this promotion of the election campaign, we are likely to convince some that pensions will grow, wages will grow, entrepreneurs will be in a more favourable position, however, it is certain that we will not have to convince anyone that this government is far more successful than the former government in collecting state revenues. The former coalition government had revenues from the state budget of 74 billion kuna, this government also plans for 2005, 86 billion 330 million or 11 billion 680 kuna more. If we look at the period when the budget was formed in 99 and over the past 5 years, we can conclude even more frantic data in 99th year Croatian budget 6 billion euros, 2005. 12 billion euros. What would have happened if we had given 5 billion incentives to the economy or to reduce taxes and contributions as much as would have increased production, exports to employment and would have achieved the necessary growth rates necessary for Croatia from 7% to 8%, with the existing way of redistributing the budget, we certainly will not succeed. The rationalisation of the state administration is necessary, the continuation of structural reforms in the economy that must be simple and transparent. Knowledge reform is also needed but also optimal tax reform. However, a political will is needed for the reform, it is hampered by the results of the latest parliamentary elections, as well as the siren's call for possible good results in the presidential and local elections. There are too many compromises towards political partners and the electoral body, which is why Croatia has no precondition for reform processes, and therefore this budget is neither ring nor social, but pre-election and political. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25721	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25722	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, we've heard a lot of ugly words whose colleague insulted the government, the MPs and the electoral body, incorrectly states. The pre-election budget, clearly subjugatedly speaking, actors and the naive electoral body to which we have given false hopes, the collection of harrassants without the methodology of the financial police. Your budget colleague shouldn't have been followed because some ministers... spent it however they wanted, a people who understood it you can insult but you won't be able to change it this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25723	The second correction by the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25724	Mr. President, the esteemed representative said, I quote: "The financial police are founded to pick up harassers, and collecting taxes from state institutions will be done without any criteria," it is incorrect not to say that the first part of this incorrect finding is offensive. Secondly, it is incorrect to say that the increase in revenues in state administration offices is being held as a presidential election, this is not only incorrect but also absurd. And the third thing is the incorrect assumption that Croatia has no precondition for reform processes, from all this data and documents in terms of the 2005 budget, the 2006 and 7 projections, on the contrary, has basic preconditions based on all the reform procedures, therefore your quote is not true either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25725	And third correction by the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25726	Thank you, Mr. President, so in a whole series of incorrect allegations, and I would say very offensive, distinguished representative Pecek was most concerned with Mrs. Kosor's ministry, so he said the money was spent for six months, and now it's being spent on her election campaign. Not true, Your Honor, this year's budget has been launched by many projects in this ministry and are now in the final phase, the money is being spent because they are in the final phase.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25727	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor, Representative Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25728	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I didn't mean to react, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25729	Don't throw me away, please, and warn me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25730	Article 209 has been injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25731	Article 209 is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25732	Let me finish, maybe I'm planning on listing another article. Maybe I'm planning on listing another article. Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25733	Thank you very much. Have a seat. Go ahead, Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25734	Well, you interrupted me, I'd like to list five more articles that have been injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25735	It's not an article in 209 that I've explained to all of you 100 times already. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25736	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. IF counterpart Pacek hadn't been sitting in the past government, he would probably have thought differently about his debate, however, when, due to the coalition agreement, coalitions adopted a budget of 1% of the total budget for agricultural reform and when they never took account of why these money was spent, so when election campaigns still take 400 million to divide the drought, it's fine. And when these promotional actions begin to be listed, it's not even 10% of these reform funds in the economy. And as for the IMF directive, remember you were a member of the Government who proposed one budget and you had to change it in a week because of the IMF directive. Yes, this government has had the courage of the Croatian public in this House to offer a three-year budget projection, no matter how many jokes you make about this projection, however, this projection is based on macroeconomic indicators and this projection contains everything foreseen by the bill on the budget proposed by the previous government and adopted the previous assembly, so not two of them. However, there are three things I would like to particularly apostrophe, as a representative of the government, for several reasons. Because with the grades and qualifications that this government is going to do something like this or in a way that is not justified with any data simply in a certain way offends the entire government, first of all a guarantee. You know that under the Budget Law, the Budget Law must define the amount of guarantees. I'll tell you that unlike last government, this government at the 11th month hasn't yet taken advantage of two billion possibilities to provide guarantees, why? Because we have established the criteria by which guarantees are given. And let's say that you set the criteria for Victor Lenac would probably have 700 million kuna for some other projects today, however, it had to be paid out of the budget, just like we paid over 400 million guarantees issued in the past this year. So, at 15. 11. of those guarantees provided for by the budget law, 2 billion are still not used, this clearly shows that this government is very concerned about guarantees, I can say that in a comfortable manner and for Vartex, we did not immediately and the Priory stuck to giving a guarantee but we also told the management of Vartex and business banks to choose to do some sort of Vartex development programme that is sustainable and then the Government will take its position whether we will give guarantees and how much guarantees we will give. As for the short-term debt of the Ministry of Finance of 100 million kuna to HBOR. At least you should know that when you're 31. 12. In 2003, the rest of the billion and 300 million taxpayers in various banks and those who have worked and monitored state finances know that the government has to borrow in the short term because in five days it has to pay for pensions, salaries and a number of other costs, which simply builds on revenue and budgeting impossible to settle if you do not carry out short-term debt. So did the finance ministry in the short term in HABOR, but unlike the former government, this was recorded in the budget on the cost side. But let's just say that until a billion and 200 million years ago, it was spent on rebuilding the HABOR loan, it wasn't recorded in the budget, that was good. But very interestingly, the former minister in the former government has twice mentioned this 50 million loan. Yeah, I'm here to publicly say, the short-term loan that the Ministry of Finance took from HABOR as it takes from all the business banks that, at the moment the Ministry of Finance needs money, there's free funds for short-term loans on the money market. And you know that the interest rate is up to 2% different depending on the amount of short-term credit you're raising. Therefore, I see no sin if the Ministry of Finance took from HABOR a short-term loan that will be returned by 31.12. Or what difference does it make that we took that loan to the Croatian Post Office, the Zagreb Bank or any other bank? ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What connections, including the Croatian Post Bank, is a state bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25737	Gentlemen, Mr. Minister and Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25738	But by seeing the finances, I can do whatever they want but the others can't do anything at all. Rural payment. Rural repayment of what I said here last year at the adoption of the Budget Law is introduced for special cases when the taxpayer finds himself in justifiable difficulties that he cannot make a commitment to the state. I can tell you that neither those rite payments for these 11 months have been divided by party belongings, by eye color, can be counted on the fingers of one hand as much as the Ministry of Finance has paid off. Therefore, it is not good to say something by heart. Also to say that state institutions don't pay, I here say publicly that that's not true. The debt you left us in the pharmacy is a problem that can't be solved in a year. You left over two and a half billion unpaid bills in the pharmacy. All other obligations of the Ministry of Finance shall be carried out on time. I can show every day we have a payment plan and you know exactly what will be paid and how much will be paid when the obligations are due. However, to spread the name that it is not paid, so I have told several times publicly to all entrepreneurs who are not paid out of the state budget to report to the Ministry of Finance and they will all be calmed down. Why without arguments to spread something. What's the problem, but I said it in the '90s, 2000, when it came to a billion and 700 million debt from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, I said, God forbid you leave us a figure like that after four years. However, that figure was not left behind as it grew. And those bonds that were raised in 2000 to settle health costs were settled this year from the budget. Ha, let’s and that’s one problem that cannot be solved in a very short period. Also, the Financial Police, I'm here to publicly say, the financial police are afraid of the disorderly paying, clearly and loudly. The financial police aren't going to be any harbingers, but I'm asking who was in the interest of keeping three years of excise duty under control? Who was in the interest of not educating people and having no field tax control? Who was that in the interest of who? You've abolished the Financial Police, you've transferred excise duties to the Customs Authority, you've moved two employees to control the full import of cigarettes, in fact, the sale of cigarettes, oil derivatives and all that. Why has there not been a group of 30, 40 people in the Customs Administration who will undergo training, education to monitor the collection of state revenues since the abolition of the Financial Police? And most importantly, excise duties are precisely the ones that because of their amount are very interesting to smugglers. But why wasn't it done? Now that you're trying to make a different model of control, I didn't say that the Financial Police will be like neither the same as they were before, because times have changed, but one system of modern budget control, to prevent an outflow of funds from the state budget, then it puts it as a big problem. And two more things, one growth rate of 5%, should only look at how much the government owed and how much investment from the state budget was, that's one thing, nothing else. And in the budget of the 99th and the budget of 2005, you can't compare it to an esteemed representative because you didn't have extra budget funds in the '99s budget. In the '99 budget, you had 42 billion kuna, but in that budget there was no pension and health care, and pension and health in this budget is more than 40 million. So when out of 80 and, actually 90 million refuse 41 million kuna you come to 49 million kuna. I think you should put pears and apples together on a pile and add them up. And as for taking care of farmers, I mean by tearing out those payments and throwing them into the basket, you've best shown what kind of law you've passed and how you thought about farmers so that this government now has to invent thousands of ways to retroactively free those people that you've imposed an annual imposition of 14 thousand kunas and then you've only made it out by one regulation, but you haven't made a commitment to those people. It's your thinking of farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25739	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25740	Thank you very much. It is incorrect, Mr. Minister, for you to act lawfully in approving the suspension of taxes and contributions because you are obliged to report to the Parliament. As far as I recall, we in the House didn't see it, so I'm asking you to act in accordance with the law, so let's see if it's approved according to the colors of the eyes or something else. ... And also... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25741	Minister, please don't communicate and throw out... I will not allow any minister or member of the government or any representative. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] This is the last time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25742	It is also incorrect to pay 400 million for the drought in the past year beyond the need, that is, past the documents that have been drawn out for it. Mr. Minister, it's completely incorrect not to use another term, because we know how many droughts hit agriculture last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25743	Thank you. And a second correction to the incorrect allegations, the respected representative, Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25744	Well, Mr. Minister said the government had the courage to re-supervise two-year projections. This isn't about courage. This is about legal commitment. It's not the courage of the government or anyone else to respect the Budget Act. It's just a commitment. But then it would be good if you had also respected Articles 26, 28 and 29 of that same budget. Then you would not be brave, but obey the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25745	Dear Mršić, please and others don't, I'll have to react differently, these are not and this is not your correction of the incorrect quote, but one comment of the minister's step forward, not the correction of the incorrect claim. Go ahead, Minister Shuker. Not the correction. ... IDS representative club, respected representatives Damir Kajin and Valter Drandić, Valter Drandić first. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25746	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. For IDS, this budget is a budget for increasing consumption and as many optimistic indicators as it is trying to show that it is not so, however, indicators used to explain this budget speak in this direction. Indicators of growth in industrial production of 4.1%) in September of this year 3%, the increase in turnover in trade to a low of 7.9%, and for the first 8 months we had 4.5% with a clear impact of the tourist season. Data on the growth of gross domestic product, the nominal growth rate of 6.9% to some nearly 220 billion kuna may be too optimistic for us. But it is certain that the obvious increase in consumption is expected that the Croatian National Bank or the Central Bank will continue to quote what is said in the materials: "to try to reduce... the imbalance of the Croatian economy, this means external debt, the balance of payments deficit and its exposure to extreme shocks, which means that it will continue to maintain slow credit activity through the implementation of a series of orthodox monetary policy measures", this is a quote from the material from the reasoning of this budget. It is obvious from this that the external debt of Croatia is a major problem. The expenditure and expenditure for serving the total debt of the internal and external ones in this year will be around 16 billion kuna, almost 20% of the budget, and we continue to plan mainly only monetary policy measures and something on a drop of funds to boost exports without a clear national development programme, for example, by the reputation of Ireland that we often take as an example for ourselves. The IDS urges that all the weight of this problem be taken very seriously, as external debt has become too heavy a burden for Croatia's further development. Over 26 billion US dollars per 4.5 million population, over 80% of gross domestic product, almost $6,000 per capita, this is today's state of mind and all economic profession attaches great seriousness to the problem. And it is clear that there is an urgent need to strengthen measures to reduce external duty. And whatever the Croatian National Bank does, whatever measures it takes, the question of respecting these measures is raised, so that the debt does not increase. Because if we can't already act on the fact that the debt is growing by interest, and it is clear that it is growing because the euro is growing today, the dollar is growing today, then it should be agreed that at least the principal of this debt can no longer grow and that it is not the goal of escipating the measures implemented by the Croatian National Bank, but of stabilising that external debt and bringing it into realistically tolerated frameworks that we will, but certainly future generations, be able to actually and re-establish. And if, for example, that foreign debt, which was almost a third of the total foreign debt, was placed through development loans, through export credits, then that would not be a problem, because that debt would also be paid back to actual foreign exchanges from exports. The problem is that most of that money is not placed in development, it is not placed in export, it is placed in consumer loans. And not to mention, the loans are coming back in debt, and the foreign debt is all in foreign exchanges, in euro, in dollars. And today, the camels, unfortunately, in Croatia, almost no one creates any more. And today's policy continues to stimulate exports, stimulates what we don't want, and stimulates imports of pardons, stimulates what we don't want, and doesn't stimulate exports. The farm's going down. Because it's cheaper to buy from imports than domestic, and those who produce for export, those who export today and do not have such a large net foreign exchange inflow as is sometimes spoken, because those who produce for export and are more paid to buy material for that production from imports than domestic ones. And the only bright spot in the last few years is tourism, whose incomes are constantly growing. However, tourism cannot in itself settle the difference between foreign exchanges that are missing through trade rebalancing. The trade balance is down and that's a matter of pure mathematics. Because if imports are twice as high as exports, then the balance sheet deficit is growing, it can't fall, it can only grow and that no services, no tourism simply can compensate. And if Croatia finally started to develop, if the real investments started in Croatia, then the foreign exchanges would come and do so all the time. While investments are only in buying what already exists, then those foreign exchanges, that money comes only once, and the question of how much more we have left to sell. All of this, and a lot of other arguments indicate a serious situation. It indicates that external debt needs to be put under tight control, it needs to be reduced, not increased. We need energetic measures to reduce the debt, because given our size, given our potential, given our development for Croatia, this debt is simply too large, it is almost and almost unsustainable. It's out of this budget, unfortunately, at least as we read it, it's not visible. And the question is the rationality of certain items in the budget. I'll just say some as an example. We have a famous law on zero alcohol spills in traffic. However, we plan to increase excise duties on alcohol and increase excise duties per beer per 6.9%, according to gross domestic product growth. We all know that there's a lot less and alcohol and beer being sold, and that, of course, the manufacturers are already feeling it. We wonder if this means an increase in excise duties in the following year, because it is obviously not realistic that these measures increase the sale of alcoholic beverages and beer. And clearly, I wouldn't be me if I didn't say a few words about the fire department. Mr. Minister, I am really asking you on behalf of all Croatian firefighters, to correct the mistake that has taken place, which is that no funds for the regular activity of workers in public fire departments are provided in this budget and that it is planned that all the burden of that funding would fall on local self-government units as of this year. Local self-government units are already losing over 300 million kunas because of an increase in their untaxable income from 1500 to 1600 kunas, plus they should be burdened somewhere around 270 million kunas for the financed regular activities of the fire department. I hope this mistake is corrected. This I ask you on behalf of over 3,000 professional firefighters in the Republic of Croatia. And by the way, let me tell her that my colleague, Vresk, and I have been referred to the procedure and the law that should be adequately addressed to this problem. I leave my word to Mr. Caine, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25747	Thank you. Second part of the presentation on behalf of the IDS Club, the respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25748	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. The 2005 budget, so according to the Ministry of Finance's projection, should be higher by about 4 billion kuna. I am sure that another budget rebalance will follow in 2005 so that we can freely say that next year's budget will be higher by 5 billion kuna than this year's. I will, however, look first and foremost at the Mirovinski Fund, more specifically the Pension Insurance and Shipbuilding Subsidies. For 2005, 24.1 billion kunas are proposed or 1 billion kunas more than in 2004 for a million and 40,000 pensioners. If so, then the next year's pensions cannot be nearly 50% of the average salary. They would mean that according to these projections they really should grow by 4.1%). So that promise will not be realized in the end. It is certainly not easy for Croatia. No one's saying that. However, the budget will be higher by at least 4 billion kuna and the IDS Club suggests that a corresponding decision by the Constitutional Court of that mass begins to settle the debt of the "mass" of 750 thousand pensioners in a manner. As the budget will be higher by 4.5 billion kuna next year, 10% or 400 to 500 million kuna will be allocated to 750 thousand pensioners. In 2006, the budget will be higher by about 10 billion kuna and again one tenth of that amount is 1 billion kuna if we want to direct it to repay the debt. The third year or 2007 budget will be higher by 15 billion kuna and again we propose one tenth of that money or one and a half billion kuna to repay the debt, which could result in a total of 20 billion kuna in 2012 or eight years from 2005. Clearly, bonds should be issued which would be transferable. And we believe that this is the only way to ultimately implement the decision of the 98 Constitutional Court. However, what is proposed? Stocks are being proposed. First, Croatia does not have any relevant assets either. The first contributions by these shares can be made in 2007, and that is certainly too late. One word and that burden shifts to a future government. So that's the first reason IDS can't, not as he didn't support the budget in 2004 or support the 2005 budget. We believe that this category of people, based on its past work, has entrusted the Republic of Croatia with so that it is an injustice not to do what the Constitutional Court tells it to do. There's no other way for us than proposed. Secondly, the County of Istria is represented in this budget with only 30 million kuna. I repeat, 30 million kuna. That's humiliating. Certain means are allocated from the Croatian roads, but it is extremely difficult to follow even though we recognise something more than the previous years because they go to the projection of the Buset-Ponta Porton-Labin-Učka road, etc. but once again only 30 million kuna for direct investment in schools, retirement homes, etc. So that's the second reason IDS can't support this 2005 budget. Last year, the shipbuilding subsidy gentlemen amounted to nearly 400 million kuna, for Lenac 9.6 million kuna, for Uljanik 115 million kuna, for Technomont Pula 1 million kuna, for Brodosplit 139 million kuna, Brodotrogir 40 million kuna, on May 3, about 85 million kuna. We hold it because this year it's not defined through one such way that it's the worst part of this budget. There's one part of one... a item of 405 million kuna but it is not known why these funds or subsidies will eventually be spent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since that's the third means the reason IDS can't support this budget. The fourth reason the IDS cannot support this budget is the funds that are directed towards the Primorian-Gorski County which is also in VIII. the electoral unit. For that county, what we have been able to read in the budget is only slightly more resources than for the County of Istria in the amount of 74 million kuna plus for clearly some road routes but once again it is almost impossible to follow. Fifth, another category of people and these are the disabled of World War II also "fully" remains out of the budget. In other words, it's impossible to even them with the disabled of the Homeland War. Sixthly, we are particularly concerned as Mr. Walter Drandic said about the growth of the external debt that should be recognised, but the fact that the external debt at the end of this government's term will be between $32 billion and $35 billion or almost $8000 per capita is something that is rightly frightening to us and very, very little is said about this place as well as the need to allocate drug addiction funds. Trend is when drugs are such that something needs to be done radically. No one should be sent to a lie detector, one word should declare war on the drug mob. And lastly, as I think of the Primorian Mountain County, it must be given a referendum around the company Adria, and I welcome the allocation of funds to modernise the small fleet on the Adriatic. But before that, if we don't build a freezer and we don't have a fish processing plant, we won't save the fishermen. It's the only way we can save that activity. It would be a real reform at sea. As also the division of agricultural countries to farmers can be the only reform of our village or the division of business premises clearly sold to craftsmen only can the start of the trade and stimulating loans to the economy. For the end, the Clinical Hospital Center of Rijeka 2005 will receive 40 million kuna. It is not enough to build a new hospital at the location of Trsat, but what is far worse than the fact that in this budget the construction of a new hospital in Pula is not even indicated. That's also the seventh, eighth or tenth reason the IDS Club doesn't vote for this budget. I have the impression in the end that when Istra was on Wednesday that Istria had been bypassed again as if it weren't part of this country and yet those spaces in this country's gross social product are participating with about 12%.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25749	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Radimir Cacic on behalf of the HNS-PGS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25750	Good afternoon. Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues! We have a budget for 2005 and projection frameworks for 2006 and 2007. This document makes it perfectly clear what the government wants, where it is going and what we must do here from the natural position of our HNS-PGS Club, unfortunately, is the fact that this year's budget and projections in front of us point to the decision of the Croatian Government to stop Croatia from doing what was done in the 2000-2003 period being the upper range of the dynamic and strong development of this country. Unfortunately, judging by all this routine I'd say a civil budget has no other wishes but to survive in power. All the important parameters remain as they were inherited from the last government, with positive trends stopping strongly. For example, the reason is that we are talking about the mild dynamics of recovery of economic activity compared to, we are now coming to an important component, compared to not four years last government, but in the last quarter, so the electoral quarter in which, of course, as we know, the activities have almost completely stopped. By that moment, we had a growth of over 5%. Then we have an election and stagnation that we agree on with the reasoning of this budget, which is gradually experiencing a mild recovery in the second, third, and hopefully and we are certain of that and the fourth quarter. Averages of last government when we talk about industrial production specifically mentioned here in the explanation were 1.6 growth in the first year, in the second 5.7, in the third 5.5 and in the fourth one including that last quarter 4.2. This year predicts 3.8. Realisation so far is a 3.0 growth in industrial production, with a particularly positive emphasis on the processing industry. So, especially positive 2.9. So how did we get to 3.0 which is less than 3.8 and two times less than the average of last government. We came here so it grew, what do you think? Oil and gas prices. The fact that we're statistically counting oil and gas prices, on the rise of industrial production, of course, unfortunately farstic, grotesque, we all know that. But to call for an increase in oil and gas prices by 10%, which are important... The energy, of course, because they're in there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And to interpret it as an important success of this government, of course, it's simply not serious enough. In the next, let me add, of course, nothing can stop at once as well as run. As the last government couldn't run that minus 09 immediately through industrial production, through everything else, at the same time or through construction. It took time to define the measures, run, sign the contracts, and in the first year, the growth of industrial production was 1.6 from that fall in 99, and it will be difficult for this government to stop immediately this strong growth that had begun. But so far, she's doing pretty well, with that average that was, I said 5.7, 5.5, 4.2, we're now at three zeroes and slightly pinched wheels, and we're going down a little bit. What's unemployment? Gentlemen, this is your situation. In 2001 to the second, we reduced 29 grand, 02 to 03. 49 thousand, namely 2001. 29, 02. 48 and 03 and 04. 11. This shows you your own data,... What does that show? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's good to continue to reduce unemployment, that's the 11 grand we now have registered at the office. What does that show? It's good to continue to reduce unemployment, that's the 11 grand we now have registered at the office. But the fact is that one strong decrease that started with 02. Twenty-nine thousand cuts in unemployment, down to three. 48th, from the 04th down to 11 grand on the annual level. There may be some further reductions by the end of the year, but I wouldn't have done that, if I had hoped too much at the government's place, because it's almost certain there's going to be an increase. Because we always go into an increase in unemployment during the winter. So it's to expect there won't be 11 grand, but there'll be about 10. So this last month or the last two months that we haven't been measuring, I mean, they're not positive, they're negative for unemployment. And, to that end, the minister was the most important target and the result was the reduction of debt and debt deficits, and the fact is, there is no dispute about that, that the private-person debt of the banks is reduced, we really don't doubt it. But it's also the fact that only in the first eight months, only in the first eight months of this year has increased the total debt of the central state when the external and internal ones are summed up, because of course that little redistribution of whether we're going to be in debt at home, with banks that are 92% or 93% of the sides anyway, so I think there's absolutely no difference, or we're going to be in debt outside, we can really just play it. The rise in the total debt of the central state from 12 months 02 to 12 months 03 was 9 billion 287, which was that terrible responsibility, that explosion, the worst thing that happened, it was really the biggest responsibility that the conflict government had ever made. However, this government is from 12 months from 03 to 8. In 04, it was able to increase the total debt of the central state by 10 billion 153 million. That's the hand we see on the posters, we stopped the debt. No, sir, the citizens stopped their private, banks, companies, spent their credit ability... The markets have played theirs, we no longer have that problem with the growth of personal consumption, it will not affect the growth of debt but the state continues to grow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we wouldn't just be disinformation. I don't normally think this is bad, so we don't argue about it, you understand?- I'm sorry. Yeah. So, I don't dispute the reasons why it seemed and I think it should be done and it's good that it's done because otherwise these capital investments that are under way today couldn't be rosary because nobody ever did anything without it costing something and not paying for it. So that's not controversial, just let's not fool ourselves that the debt in that segment of the state is what, it didn't stop. As for what's written in the budget, I haven't been notified until the end, but I have to say that one segment of a billion and 350 in the budget relating to the sale of shares in companies in my court, and here I have and such confirmation has not been realised. The 2 billion 450 segment in this year, of 2 billion 450 is partially realised but a billion 900 is certainly not yet, this is what it is doing, namely, if HT allows as a strategic partner, or a majority to take over the dividend will be the two billion in the budget. If we don't, gentlemen, we'll have three and a few billion minus. So 1.5, 1.6 of the budget we're going to have a deficit. And not only the deficit, but the necessary responsibility for it. Or we'll give in to HT blackmail and sell them another 10% of the stock, and they still really care about it because it's still a duopoly in effect because... We didn't let them crash their prices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, interest is a big HT for that 10%, obviously. Such information is present in public for the time being. Okay. If we don't realize that, unfortunately, this year's deficit that we're waving so hard isn't going to be 4.5, but of course it's going to be something above 6. It is very important to note that these 2 billion have been in the account for two years. And that 2 billion years ago, the government was long gone when, if it wanted to not leave in the development projects for cable and development of information in this country, 2 billion could have long covered the deficit. So if 2 billion of these were 1% of the deficit and the account of the deficit the HDZ government gave subsequently put in place, the deficit would not be 6.3, but 5.3, if we had put them in the account. And then this government couldn't use them to cover its deficit right now, so the 4.5 deficit would be 5.5, so it would be bigger than the last government. Therefore, let us look simply into the truth. That's what we're talking about here. So, pensioners, I'm sure that's what we're talking about. Short. We're not gonna stay on this thing we've been on, we're gonna go down. Let's go down. 4.4% of growth, 2.5 inflations are 6.9, that's nominal, those below the nominal go, 1.2 to... It's less than 7%, no, it can calculate a small child. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, for retired people, that's probably enough. Here are their representatives, they strongly support it. About health care. About health care. There's no health care here at all. 700 million kunas that haven't been paid in eight months. Drugs? It's being pushed under the carpet, and it'll be waiting for us when we get to power, just like last time it happened. The same thing, up to 24 months ago, has now come to 8 months of non-payment of 700 million. Watch Science, about science one strong promise was, we heard it and from Minister Primorac talked a lot about it, he will ask 19%, increase science, that's Croatia's future, etc. Science, science, this year is growing 5.2%, so this year it's growing 1.7% below the nominal. It's growing nominally. So it's actually going down. Next year even more, right? It doesn't go forward, it goes further down, does it? So we're not taking steps forward. We stopped at the nominals. How nominally due to economic growth and inflation, the budget is growing nominally, something and these figures are growing, right? But literally hard down there. About what, the last minute in a short while. So the past government is in that situation where it's found itself making strong moves. Capital investment and economic growth through infrastructure as one of the measures, the reduction of burdens 4% we took down contributions, 2+2 pension and health, decentralisation, we gave over a billion and a half to local self-government units. We gave a whole series of additional measures through the Law on Islands, the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, and so on. So the reduction in tax rates in that situation and the decentralisation of this on income tax alone, we moved from the base of 1,000 to 1500. We've raised 50% of people's ability to be untaxed. Now the government is rising from 1500 to 1600. We've raised 50%, they're raising 6 and something because that's the difference between 1500 and 1600, right? So I guess that's the mistake of enrolling somewhere. But that's basically a tax relief, so let's not fool ourselves. So that government had the strength in a bad position to pull forward. This one has barely the strength to survive on what we left for them and in that tax, I'd say be gentle, stagnation, unfortunately we'll welcome 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25751	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25752	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would correct the first major inaccuracies of the former destroying minister. So he said that we, that this government has stopped Croatia from running. This is simply not true because Croatia inherited by this government had 415... It's the unemployment ceiling that ruled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we had 26, the biggest debt of, in the new state. So this government has stopped the decline and the deficit, the slight growth
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25753	Please, gentlemen, these are the corrections of incorrect allegations. A claim challenged by the representative. ... Don't worry about your colleague, Pacek. That's my concern. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25754	So this government has and should make that clear, for the first time reduced the debt and reduced the deficit, but also for the first time unemployment fell below 300 thousand... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25755	Thank you very much. And the second amendment. Honorable representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25756	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Cacic said that this accounting budget has no other wishes but to remain in power. This is a false allegation because this Budget shows the announced reforms and the pre-election promises that have been mentioned so there is also judicial reform and public administration reform and reforms of science and education, but also maternity benefits and child allowance, indexation of pensions, defence rights and so on. And in this budget as well as in the budget for, from this year on and this year on next year, all expenditure which has not been shown before by the railway and so on has been shown neatly. And the gentleman also mentioned income taxes and only for 2000, the state took 56% out of income tax. Now he's taking 39. The cities were getting 30%. Now they get 57. Countys got 4%, and now they get 10%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25757	Thank you very much. My colleagues and fellow MPs. I ask that the testimony and step forward, the speeches of individual representatives on either side do not welcome with a sniveling laugh. We agreed on a culture of speech, and that includes it. Yes, sir, it's also true for the President, Mr. Korenika, and I warn you not to throw it away. Your Honor, before that Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25758	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. For the sake of truth, I think things should be called a real name, and they're used with numbers that sometimes look out for someone, and then there's a confusion. So what's evident from this budget is that, colleague Cacic, you left me the watch again. Unbelievable. I'm really gonna have to take it. And it's not bad, is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25759	Give the two of you with those watches a deal already.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25760	So capital investments in this budget are 14 billion kuna, and in 2003 there were 12 million kunas. So much for what's being invested in the budget. But it's very interesting when we talk about public debt. Therefore on the borrowing of the central and consolidated state in 2003 and 2004 You know very well that part of its public debt, hence the reduction of the debt requirement in 2003, was covered by the government's sale of INA. And when you add three-and-a-half billion to this public debt of 9.7 billion from the sale of INA, it's 13 billion and 200. When you add 3.6 billion unpaid bills to that, it's 16 billion and 800. So much for the cost-settling that you stayed within the four-and-a-half percent deficit frameworks that you said it was. Yes, this year is 10 billion 153. Among other things, to cover those billions of 600 in the Croatian highways of unpaid bills. To cover 570 million refurbishment loans from 2002 and 2003. To cover 600 million short-term loans for Croatian railways from 2002. But that 10 billion 153 million will have a completely different picture at the time that the dividend is withdrawn from Telekom, and now I think we need to clear up some kind of glorification and mystification of that dividend. First, Telekom can neither blackmail the Croatian government in any way to pay the dividend for selling him 10%. You know very well that this government has decided at some point that it will not go for sale, in the second phase of the privatisation of HT and will lift... A 500-million-dollar loan, and it happened and it happened in 2002, and it's not at all questionable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what's certain is that we'll be charging the dividend by the end of the year. That's for sure. The second thing, the third phase of the privatisation of Telekom is not actually the desire of this government, but what was previously agreed. So much for that and blackmail. I'm here to publicly say there's no blackmail from Deute Telekom about paying the dividend. They can, however, try, but they need to know that they are operating and operating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Also, as far as dividends are concerned, we could have pulled it, and we didn't. First, you couldn't withdraw the dividend for 2003 because your mandate expired on 23.11. That's one thing. And the other thing, one day when the Croatian public sees your contract on the second phase of HT privatisation, then it will become clear to them why you did not withdraw the dividend. I think that's what's white to be clear. So much for dividends. Now why is that dividend used? You know that the budget rebalancing that was in the 7th month included the dividend income, but you also know that the funding and payment of the debt of the Croatian Railways which was not recorded in the 2003 budget was included in the budget, but it is evident from those billions of kunas of reserves that, not pardon, kuna, spare parts that are now in HZ warehouses that this loan was consumed in 2003. That he was consummated. But interestingly enough, she wasn't seduced into the budget. Why. I don't know. Usually business events are recorded when they come into existence. But good. So that dividend will be spent on that part, resuscitating liabilities to HZ and the cost of that loan in terms of reconstruction. But as far as the drugs are concerned, I said, in 2000 billion HZZOs of bonds issued that are due this year. So this government set them up and paid them off. You've left over two-and-a-half billion unpaid medical bills, HZZO. Out of that, 700 million were unpaid for over 180 days. And that 700 million is what this government has rescheduled. So, to talk about something that this government has made in 330 days a billion debt in health care is at least inappropriate, the other thing is untrue and the third thing that is most important is the bitter problem of the public finances of the Republic of Croatia in this training that has been going on since 2000. Here's a fellow Churchman who knows when I told him when the first budget was made, God forbid that in four years, that same amount is inherited from you. Because it's just a problem that has to be solved some other way. But it can't be attributed to this government or that government, it can't be attributed to just one problem that's spreading like a ribbon. However, it is very interesting that you have issued a record at the Zagreb Bank, with the reach of 2004 you have covered your medications. But at the same time, after four years, you left a new billion and some more unsettled up to 120 days and a billion and 300 outstanding accounts that were due below 120 days. So, what's settled with the bonds that are now supposed to be paid and so on. And as for the growth of gross domestic product, it is amazing that in a category that can be the result of good wishes we are discussing as results of good wishes. Here it's so easy to talk about the growth of gross domestic product as if it were the result of something. I've remembered he'll be who he is. However, when we look at how much the responsibility of the Croatian state has been in the past 4 years, how much the external debt has grown over the past four years, how effective the growth of gross domestic product is, and how much the gross domestic product has been affected by the investment from the calculated external debt. Then you realize that the growth of 4.3 - 4.4% in 2003 when the June debt increased by 8.2 billion is minor. But the obvious situation in the economy was like that and couldn't be bigger. I know that all the certain members of the last government would want him to be 8%. But it couldn't have been 8%. However, it was very interesting that today it was not about road construction. Because up until a few days ago, there was talk of road construction stopping. That nothing will be invested in road construction. However, in this budget, the road construction is at the level of 2003, but not the level of what you've done beyond the Parliament's decision. So the road construction is at 7 billion. But I'm saying it's easy with the numbers being scattered, not comparing them. THE debt of the state’s public debt grew by 16 billion kuna in 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25761	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation, respected representative Radimir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25762	I sincerely hope that the next budget will be a budget relative to this government. So this government, the current HDZ, will have nothing more to do with it. I wasn't talking about those 12 and a half billion inherited debts. I didn't deploy it to four years of government and coalition government. And I didn't say what generated it in the deficit. I think we should finally stop calling for a pass. Let's start working with our heads, and we'll discuss the next budget that way. The roads. Roads. The correction of the incorrect assumption is that it invests in the road as much as investment is simply not true. It is invested 60% of what the last government has drawn for the programme by 2008, and this is said in the programme in explanation and in the road programme. And with 60% of the money, there's never been more than 60% of the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25763	Thank you. And distinguished representative Milorad Pupovc on behalf of the SDSA Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25764	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. According to the announcements, both the Prime Ministers and individual ministers, the problem of rebuilding the war-torn and especially after the war-torn activities of the destroyed houses should be one of the priorities of this budget. And now that we have a budget ahead of us, I have to realize that this announcement and this budget disagree. On the basis of the positions of funds allocated to the reconstruction of houses from 1 to 3 categories, 50 more than 53 million kuna is foreseen. Which, given the number of requests we have, might be enough. However, when it comes to rebuilding houses from 4 to 6 categories, therefore the highest degree of burden is projected to be 619 million kunas away from what is coming to us, which we have since this year, and what is coming to us in the following year. Namely, the situation is next. We have a total of about 14 and a half thousand applications filed for reconstruction. A lot of people have arrived. Of that we have from this year will by chance be transferred about 1,500 requests. And if we subtract that in the 14 and a half thousand there are one number of requests for house equipment that were built in the meantime, it's realistic to estimate that we have about 12,000 reconstruction facilities for the next year. Mr. Minister, according to our recovery estimates, it would be enough in the following year about 850 million kuna. These 619 are therefore significantly less than the means needed if we add to this the usual practice that from this year forward in the following year something more or about 100 million kunas of outstanding claims for reconstruction costs is transferred. This means that the amount of the 250 million kuna missing should be increased by another 100 million, which means somewhere around 350 million kuna. Mr. Minister, I would like to know, given our common obligation to complete the largest number of renovations by the end of next year, in which way the government is going to secure these funds and allow what I hear is a plan to restore 4000 dogs from 1 to 3 categoricals in the following year. And 3,000 from 4 to 6 is how it is meant to secure these funds. I am particularly asking because, in some other positions, some other items, the Government has taken a little more note of the transfer of claims from this year to next year and of the planning and projections of 2006 and 2007. On several occasions, we warned of a disproportionateity between the funds secured for reconstruction and the funds secured for the purchase of houses. Next year, it's supposed to be 217 million 618 thousand and something else. It is also disproportionate to the means of recovery provided and the funds provided for the housing of former, i.e. the housing of temporary users, the temporary allocation of assets, which according to this budget is 220 million kuna and 209,000 kuna, which, therefore, takes into account APN activity and this means, is somewhere around 439 million kuna. Practically for one and the same item. And that is why we have once again expressed our concern as we expressed a short time ago in the public and afterwards in the talks we had that politics in this regard did not, unfortunately, change. In addition, if we add the fact that we have 200 million kunas planned for the work of the "Zonimir" Fund at the Board of Exorcisors, this means that somewhere planned funds are being refurbished and the intended funds for a wide range of resolution activities, around buying houses, housing care of temporary users, and the particularly unclear issue of this Fund "Zonimir" that these items are about the same. That it is about 650 million kunas, or just over 600 million kunas. And for the first time this year, it also provides for some means to address the issue of former tenant rights holders. The government predicts 44 million kunas. Of course, it is good for us that this issue is beginning to be resolved. This year, none of the envisioned were realized, nor were those 23 million kunas scheduled to be used in any way to resolve some 8 hundred requests that were filed, or even those people who were in refugee centres and who have been sitting in refugee centres for 7 years or 6 years, waiting for their ability to return to their former apartments to be resolved. Mr. Minister, we are free to express our next opinion. If there are no assumptions about increasing this item, which should probably be discussed, the most certainly best solution for spending this item would be to go through the POS programme. According to our calculations, these 44 million could provide 5 hundred housing units. If it were to go directly to buying apartments in different areas, this would practically mean 20 to 30 apartments and not more. So we would be interested in how and how and how this projected means are thought to be spent and how can the suggestions that I make here be respected in this respect? Another thing I would say about the budget on behalf of the SDSS Club concerns municipalities in the area of special state concern. We had this problem last year, or rather the current year, which is that these municipalities, which per degree of income, fall most often in the lowest in the Republic of Croatia, which have serious difficulties in collecting prose, especially when it comes to taxes on the country, now and this year, although there have been some adjustments to some municipalities, unfortunately, they have, will need to meet, i.e. this budget deprives a number of municipalities of support from the state. Of course, we tried to talk about it, but we are really looking for further explanations, especially when it comes to tax returns, because the tax return that the state has made, unfortunately returns, not unfortunately, to businesses, or returns to companies in the area of these municipalities, and the municipalities themselves do not have direct direct benefits from these taxes and for a significant number of them is a big question in which they will be able to provide budget items for their activity. The same applies naturally to the issue of infrastructure. About 7 to 8 years old 70 to 80 settlements in the Republic of Croatia are waiting for electricity without which they were left after 95 years. In this year the state has secured 20 million kunas HEP had virtual 10 million kunas. A total of 30 million. According to our knowledge of the dynamics of the spending of these funds, unfortunately it is not satisfactory. Nor do we expect, when it comes to the use of funds provided by international sources, that the items envisaged for the restoration of infrastructure are also an item of 253 million kuna and 318 thousand special attention is paid to electrifying or restoring the damaged, alienated networks and therefore necessary assumptions in areas of special state concern, because it is absolutely unacceptable that these people, like those in the area of Dvor municipality, are somewhere around 15 settlements today without electricity, even though these people are either there or are returnees immediately somewhere in 96. 97. And in the end, today is our colleague's word, Dr. Radina, president of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Communities, mentioned the issue of funding by the Council of National Minorities. The specific issue of funding the coordination of the National Minority Council at national level. This is according to the Constitutional Law, the Council of National Minorities and their coordination at national level, one of the key institutions of minority rights, the exercise of minority rights, is one of the key mechanisms for the exercise of minority rights, based on the Constitutional Law that we adopted 2 years ago. On the basis of the elections, the Councils have been formed for a long time, and the possibilities for their full and real activity will not be possible unless the state budget provides the necessary resources and we will also be able to say that an active approach to the resolution and support of minority institutions is guaranteed, and that means even these 10% that are talking about increasing national minority programmes unless this problem of the Council of National Minorities provides an adequate approach. In fact, it is pointless to spend budgets to organise elections for these councils, if, and irrationally, if these councils are not provided with the resources necessary to carry out their constitutional functions, they are no longer large funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25765	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the club debate is over. We're moving on to an individual debate. What is it now? ... An explanation about that. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, Minister Ivan Shuker. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25766	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Just to clarify about the part of the funds that belongs, which is provided for in the 2005 budget for local self-government units in areas of special state concern. You know it's Article 35. The law on the implementation of the State budget provides for a decision for the State to grant its share of income tax and profit tax to units of local self-government in areas of special state concern. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The law on the implementation of the state budget has been said that the return of income tax according to income tax returns for 2003 instead of the budget of local self-government units is made out of the state budget. Therefore, on the basis of the denunciation of the share in income tax and profit tax in favour of the units of local self-government, the state gave up in favour of the units of local self-government as regards the income tax of 405 million kuna and as regards the profit tax of 79 million. So a total of 484 million kuna. At the same time, by 31.10, the state budget, hence the State Treasury, is in favour of the units of local self-government, so a return of 356 million kuna was made to citizens in areas of special state concern. So when you add that up, it's over 850 million kunas that are directed from the state budget to local self-government units. You remember 2 years ago, in the summer of 2003, due to the return of income tax to all units of local self-government in the area of special state care were nearly 3 months blocked by the jury accounts because as citizens received tax returns, their small incomes could not cover it and then there was a blockage of the jury accounts. So the Law on Budgetary Implementation decided to regulate this in such a way that the state would disavow its revenues in favour of these units of local self-government and, moreover, the return of funds comes from the state budget. It's as if you've provided funds to these units of local self-government because 850 million kunas are not small funds. However, it is not seen in the budget. Let's all forget very quickly that in principle it was supposed to be the resources of the state budget and perhaps it would be a better solution if it were in the state budget and touched the units of local self-government. Because frankly, both the mayors and the mayors in the field of special state concern now simply don't want to accept the argument that these are the funds that they actually belong to, that they got from the state budget. However, they did not go through their jury account and they do not record them as such. Therefore, when you sum up this share that the state gave up in income tax and profit tax in favour of the units of local self-government, when you add the return made to citizens in the area of the units and local self-government, then you will see that the funds, and these funds provided for in the budget, are significantly higher than they were in the 2003 Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25767	We're going to an individual debate. Allow for college reasons we give priority to our colleague MPs Vesni Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25768	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. As much as you're warning me about people with disabilities, I don't think I see any recent shifts. Unfortunately, the proposal for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 also goes in favour. The bad practice of this government continues, ignoring the needs of those living at the very bottom of the social. Starting from the fact that the rights of persons with disabilities are unequal, to the existence of architectural and urban barriers, to insufficient participation of persons with disabilities in decision-making processes, that they are not sufficiently informed about their rights and the general public, to the frequent violation of the rights of persons with disabilities, to an inadequately regulated employment system, to an inadequately arranged system of education and professional rehabilitation, my suspicions, looking at this Budget is increasing further. The implementation of the national strategy and the single policy for people with disabilities from 2003 to 2006 is not implemented, or the measures set do not follow the deadlines set. The competent authorities of the State Administration did not include measures from a national strategy in their annual plans and programmes. I'd like to confirm my findings with numbers. The Government of the Republic of Croatia's commission for persons with disabilities until 10.11. of this year held only 2 sessions and spent 6 thousand 633 kuna from the scheduled 426 thousand kunas. Otherwise, it is the government's advisory body and its task is to propose a government policy towards people with disabilities. From the numbers provided, we see not only that no policy is created for people with disabilities but the trend of ignoring continues. At the position of the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity for the affirmation of rights and the improvement of policies for people with disabilities, 936 thousand kunas are foreseen. Unfortunately, only 500 thousand kuna will go for real projects. The funding of the NGO sector will be at the level this year, but as we can see, only 50% of the projected funds have been spent over the past 10 months. At the Ministry of Health and Social Care in the position of care for children with physical and mental impairment is about 6.5% increase. But what's increasing? Mostly material costs, such as official travel, increased by 27.7%, small inventory and car tires by 105%. Representatives 15% while citizens' fees on average increased by only 2%. It is commendable that 100,000 kunas are foreseen for removing architectural barriers in health institutions. I want to believe that this money will be spent for the intended purpose because it has been taught by bad experience to finance the same purpose for this year, worth 500 thousand kuna is spent zero kuna. My suspicions are great. There remained a bitter taste of fraud and inaccessible health care facilities, which also means unaccessible health services. As for the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship, the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund for this year, 22 million kuna was planned. Unfortunately, no programme has been made which is clearly seen in the implementation of the budget, and for the following year it has been reduced by almost 8%. This means, continuing to exclude persons with disabilities from the labour market, thereby reducing their financial independence. If the planning trend continues and the executions continue, I think it would be fairer to put a zero and perhaps surprise us with some project that will be implemented. In the end, regardless of all the established and prescribed rights of persons with disabilities who cannot be implemented because we do not have a socially sensitive budget, but if it passes, it will pass, and it will pass. We didn't separate the money for real needs. Eighty-five thousand 220 hard moving persons, 70 thousand 201 people in wheelchairs, 12 thousand 488 permanently fixed and 5 thousand blind. I mean, real people. And we always have tears and compassion when cameras come in. But it doesn't say that in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25769	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25770	Thank you, dear Mr. President, honourable ministers and members of the government, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 with a proposal for a projection of the 2006 and 2007 budget. For the first time, a three-year budget plan was drawn up. This is a clear sign that the Republic of Croatia is becoming a regulated state with defined objectives, strategies and development plans. The finance ministry has drawn up a transparent and reviewed document showing how revenue will be achieved and the planned expenditure of the state. Therefore, it commends the Minister and all the persons who worked on making this Budget. Under the circumstances inherited, the government of Prime Minister Sanader has made a remarkable effort and a remarkable result, respecting the real possibilities of the Croatian state, has drawn up a budget that meets the key requirements of Croatian society. And when I mention the inherited situation, then it should be said that in 2003 the external debt of 50 billion kuna was increased, that the budget deficit was significantly higher than approved by the Croatian Parliament, that negative economic trends were recorded in the last quarter of that year, and what should also be stressed by the growth of 4.3%. So despite the high debt and the hidden deficit that should be financed by development, a lower GDP growth was achieved compared to 2002 and the growth rate in the last quarter of 2003 was below the growth rate achieved by the government. So, respected colleagues, this government is achieving satisfactory growth rates, while at the same time reducing external debt and budget deficits. At the same time, it unearths certain ministers from the government of Prime Minister Racan that the external debt and deficit were in the development function, it is simply not true, the former government has not achieved significant growth rates and this is supported by figures, and the figures are figures and they are evident on the side of this government. These figures show that the government is making pre-election announcements, especially in segments that are important for the economic growth and growth of the standard of living of Croatian citizens, so industrial production increased 3.5% in the first 9 months compared to 9 months last year, showing recovery of industrial production. The unemployment rate has been reduced and for the first time the number of unemployed has been below 300, for the first time since a long period, exports have increased at a faster rate than imports and for the first time in September there has been a decrease in external debt by 100m euros. The specific quality of this budget is a good balance between funding development and social projects, analysing the present of a full-right budget proposal, we can also call it development and social. Why is the budget developed? Because all major infrastructure projects continue, Croatia's outposts receive nearly 5 billion kunas, Croatia's 2.15 billion kunas, Croatia's 1.8 billion kunas and Croatia's 2.8 billion kunas. It is also developed because the economy and entrepreneurship receive 35% more funding than last year. Because 900 million kuna is planned for reconstruction, because 230 million kuna is intended for the development of the island, because agriculture is intended for 200 million kunas more than in 2004. Because the grants for science and education have been increased by 350 million kuna, and because the funds for strengthening Croatia's international position and structural reform are significantly increased for joining the European Union. Why is the budget so social? Because the increase in funding for pensions, for defenders, for childbirth, for children's allowance and for other social categories of over 2.8 billion kuna. And because the health leaves have increased by 1 billion kuna. Therefore, the main policy definitions of Prime Minister Sanader's government can be clearly read from this budget. Faster economic growth, investment in science and education, reform of state administration and justice, emphasised higher social isolation and sensitivity, strong orientation towards strengthening Croatia's international position and adapting to the criteria needed for full membership in the European Union. For all these reasons, I will support the state budget proposal for 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25771	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25772	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. If we ignore the usual discussions on the state budget that are repeated each year and that will be repeated as long as the budgets are passed, it is that for the users of social incomes it is never sufficiently social, for the businessmen it is never sufficiently economically oriented, yet it is not possible to highlight the two exceptional values of this year's budget. The first of them is certainly a reality, where through it is projected the government's quest to truly act as a serious host, a serious master, or to spend what is earned, or what has the second value of this proposal this year's budget is a projection for the next two years which leaves us all with the possibility for a longer period and in peace to consider projected funds and possibly on them, not only eventually, but really affect them in the coming period. Each budget, including this one, has certain messages, one of which I would like to highlight certainly political, the government's insistence to reduce the deficit, to stop further borrowing, to meet the criteria of mastriction are very much but a clear message of the European orientation that this government has never ignored, in fact, one of the basic principles of functioning and behaviour of this government was just that. The second is, of course, the financial one that is interesting for each user of the budget. There have already been a lot of words that I think it is absolutely necessary to point out in view of a series of remarks that have been made during this year, specifically from the opposition that road construction will be stopped or the realization of all those infrastructure projects that continue for years or are new. I think there are very promising items in the area or in the position of the Ministry of Health. In addition to 400 million kuna of decentralised funds this year, 480 million more are planned for infrastructure facilities in the area of health and social care, which must be among the largest ever approved investment of the state budget since Croatia's independence. Some of these items are very important to highlight, it is a further projection in terms of developing a transplant centre, and I think we remember here some stories about how this government is going to stop or stop this more important project, then building certain objects, in the field of cardiosurgery, or those segments of health where we have the longest waiting lists at this moment, which I find very positive in the direction of reducing the length of waiting to very complicated surgery and I believe that this will certainly have an effect over the next year. Secondly, for the first time, the amount of funds for so-called funds is greatly increased. Special purposes, or new measures, including payment of the so-called ‘. Expensive medicines, snails and organ implantations, I am saying this because it would relieve the limits that each hospital receives that enables them to provide far more medical services within these limits than they may at this time be provided precisely because of the limiting factor in the cost of such expensive, expensive medicines and highly differentiated medicine. I also don't know how familiar it is, the government managed to change one part of the contract with the International Bank where part of the money will be, and that amount is about 30 million kuna instead of intellectual services next year, 13 million kunas on the development of island medicine and... medicine and the rest on improving patient living conditions in hospitals. 700 million kuna more in the HZZO budget, I believe, will end up at that projection that should result from the government's quality negotiations and the health workers' unions, something that burdened the last government and, among other things, had been the result of a strike that lasted almost a year. Of course, as a local patriot clearly I will always have certain objections that the county from which I came did not get enough. However, it remains indeed for the following year and for the Ministry of Finance, but at the local administration an agreement and a quality proposal of good projects to make better use of the Regional Development Fund, which I believe will take special care of the counties that are economically below or beyond that of the Republic of Croatia. From all the above, I express my satisfaction with the proposed budget. I will support it and believe it as I said in the introduction that its reality will be a good foundation for its realization entirely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25773	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25774	Dear Mr. President, honourable members of the government's representatives. The introduction should point out that the proposed budget really represents regardless of its and its development and social components in fact a real relationship, reality on the one hand wishes, and on the other hand objective budgetary possibilities. In this respect, it represents as the most important financial document the expression and economic and social policy translated into financial indicators, and which, in the sense of its adoption, are certainly marked by the micro and macroeconomic relations of the state-of-the-art financial situation. Therefore, an analysis of the situation found, i.e. the financial indicators of the previous period, is necessary to assume any quality approach, not only in drawing up the budget in question for the following year, but also in terms of projections, income and expenditure structures, budgetary periods, that is, the future period of time. In this context, it should be pointed out that this budget should be viewed primarily as a document that should also resolve the inherited negative tendencies that we can define, not only as problematic, but those that need to be resolved in an urgent period of time, so some in the next fiscal year, and some in the next medium term. They refer to the front row or first, so the deficit reduction. The implementation of a fiscal adjustment that will lead to a reduction in the general government deficit below 3% by 2007, which will be a key accession or pre-accession year of entry into the European Union. Second, external debt, thus stabilising external debt and its necessary reduction as a share in the gross domestic product below 80% by 2007. And the third component, therefore public debt, is its stabilisation and reduction below 60% of gross domestic product as a necessary prerequisite for Croatia's entry into the European Monetary Union. In addition to the system of controlled and strategic public expenditure management, and the reduction of the fiscal burden due to the increase in competitiveness of the economy and the promotion of exports, they are therefore the basic elements to be addressed in terms of the proposed budget as a basis for achieving these undoubtedly demanding objectives in the next medium term. The proposed budget and its implementation in the next 2005 should be expected to provide concretely the following indicators. Therefore, at a) expected growth in industrial production of 4,1 %. Nominal trade growth to less than 7.9%. The nominal growth rate of the gross domestic product at 6.9%, with an average inflation rate of around or between 2.5 and 2.6%. With a slight recovery of economic activity as well as an average exchange rate of €7.51, it is indeed a real macroeconomic framework for the period and in 2005, but also from 2005 to 2007. Therefore, considering the total of the revenue and expenditure side of the proposed budget in relation to the established fiscal situation and the priorities that necessarily need to be realised, the proposed budget represents not only reality, but also the basic precondition for economic and growth and development. In line with the criticisms, i.e. the remarks we had had in the assembly in terms of a debate on the implementation of the budget for the first six months of 2004, let me highlight the following elements that clearly mark the proposed budget. First, investment programmes in local infrastructure and environmental protection. Second, the preferential financing programme under the credit programmes to encourage exports through the subsidisation of interest rates as well as the payment of funds in the guarantee fund of export insurance. When these two elements are analysed in relation to the established programmes of the Fund for Development and Employment, and the Regional Development Fund programmes themselves, it is concluded that this budget is also a strong foothold for further development and local infrastructure and environmental protection in terms of the even development of all Croatian regions. Compared to the railway infrastructure programmes, in this respect capital investments in the Croatian Railways programme are sufficiently pointed out in this place that the funds were provided in 2005... 2006. 2.6 and 2.8 billion kuna in 2007. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] The Road Infrastructure Programme represents one of the basic backbones of future development in this document. It should also be pointed out that after 30 June 2005 the Croatian highways will remain under obligation to build another 448km of highways, on the directions we have opportunities to see and in an explanation, i.e. the budget in question. As regards the continuation of construction, funding models have been provided and long-term investment planning has been enabled as well as independent financing from tolls and charges on oil derivatives. A clear structure of financing construction, maintenance and highway management for the period 2005 to 2008. Here he would especially highlight the importance of the corridor, so the highway from Rijeka to Žuta Lokva, i.e. the need to resolve the Žuta Lokva node from the already built highway corridors. The continuation of construction that would represent the completion of the Ionian part of the Croatian highways is a basic and strategic infrastructure project of that part of Croatia. The construction of the Vratnik tunnel with access road to the sea, i.e. the town of Senj, will create basic traffic and other assumptions for the development of the area. Here I primarily think of the Velebit part of Lika-Senj County, so space from the town of Senj to Karlobag, but better traffic connection between the islands of Pag and Rab, practically on the European highway corridor. For further development of tourism, economic activities and the return of the population to this climate, this programme should be a priority, as such should be seen and supported as soon as possible. This will undoubtedly represent not only an additional incentive for foreign investment and job creation, but is the basis for further long-term interruption of development for this year's neglected and devasted area. Finally, I absolutely support the proposed budget, so the proposed budget and with all these indicators that we have had today heard and discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25775	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25776	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me step away from the imagined concept of budget exposure for 2005 and I would start with a one-wise Latin saying, which is, repeated by es mate studiorum. But why is repeating the mother of wisdom? Because some people here don't accept the facts, they don't hear the wrong things and they don't count even worse. So by mixing Arabic and Roman numbers, mixing the decata system with other systems and performing some of their calculations only known to them, probably believing that they can also doctor mathematics at that level. But definitely why does it all seem? To justify and cover what was done. And it's done next. And these are facts, pure facts. When the National Bank writes and the governor signs that the deficit is the 2003 budget of 6.1 gross social product, then it's a clear fact and it needs to come from that. If it turns out that external debt increased by $8.8 billion in 2003, then that's a fact. If the provisional budget of the former Government of Croatia is also adopted for the first three months of 2004 enough for only 60% of the state's needs for the first three months, then that is a fact. And normally, then orchestratedly attack the government that it can't pay all its obligations in the first three months. Well, of course he can't when you've brought the budget 60% of the funds you need. But we said, okay, what happened is, let's go see how we're going to solve it all in 2004. The first thing was to put order into public finances. And when we had already come to order in public finances and some of our colleagues were talking about eye color, I would just visit the fact again on the fact that the Development Fund granted one company credit in 2003, I would say based on the color of the eyes to a returnee who had already registered a company in Valjeg and Banja Luka in the amount of 28 million kuna that had gone to buy equipment abroad and the equipment had never returned. For a miracle, the chairman of the company's Supervisory Board, who had the capacity to regulate the implementation of the loan, is also the chairman of the SDP County Committee, Sisak-Moslavina County. So much for eye color when it comes to loans. And of course it was necessary to put order into public finances. Also reduce drastic external borrowing, expose the secret deficit policy, not only expose that policy but also pay what came on the charge, and that was all necessary. And now that we've come to sound such a budget for that 2004 that can do all that, then what's happening is that the opposition is making about 380 amendments to a budget that needs a new 18 billion kuna, which clearly doesn't exist. We can only do this, call it obstruction and budget and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all those who have cast a vote for that government, gentlemen. And after all we've seen the results for the first six months of what's been a lot of talk, I won't repeat myself again instead of congratulating the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the President of Dr. Evey Sanader, along with his ministers who did this skill to pay off all debts, that the state works here, we perform a variety of mathematics, proving that this government didn't work well, and that it didn't do what it needed to do. And now something about the 2005 budget. Of all the above-mentioned goals we have heard here today and presented by the Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader of macroeconomic stability, support for the economy, social sensitivity and responsibility, I would only hold on to one that is interesting to all of us and that is support to the economy. The biggest aid to the economy is the state when it returns through investment what it has taken from taxpayers and thus fertilises the funds that have come into the budget. And this year, i.e. In 2005 through the budget will be invested through Croatian highways 4.4 billion kuna, through Croatian roads 1.7 billion kuna, through Croatian railways 2.9 billion kuna, through Croatia water 1.5 billion kuna, through the Croatian Health Insurance Institute 700 million kuna, through the 230 million kuna Environment Fund, etc., etc. Of all the above-mentioned clean investments, 11.4 billion kuna is returned to state importers through their work and is normally treated as I would say, medically, although I am not a doctor, direct injection of fresh blood into the Croatian economy. And that, and that budget is then called civil, pre-election, political, I don't know how, that budget is neither civil or pre-election but is developmental, determines macroeconomic stability, is socially sensitive and is primarily responsible and encourages production. And this is the budget exactly as it is required in line with the pre-election promises of the Croatian Democratic Community. And in the end, I would only say, you gentlemen would like to admit it or not, Croatia has launched and is moving forward with full sails. And that's why we're voting for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25777	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25778	Well, counterpart Nenadic said Croatia of course calculated the Bank and then delivered and signed the deficit. This is incorrect because the Croatian National Bank does not monitor and calculate the deficit. If you have carefully read the letter that was, or the National Bank report there, it says that according to the Ministry of Finance the deficit per currency, according to the cash flow method is 5.1, according to the modified method 6.3. So, according to the Ministry of Finance, not the National Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25779	Yeah. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25780	Thank you, Mr. President, honourable government members with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This budget is not an expression of a meaningful, one rational economic policy but is an instrument and it is fully evident from one HDZ presidential campaign but is also an attempt to lose sight of the government's reputation in all research, to save what is still being saved. Declaratory commitment to reform does not mean much. The HDZ has not really made the impression so far that it is ready to accept this difficult and responsible and often unpopular job in implementing the reforms launched during the coalition government. And right now, let me say that from the entire budget, and that's what's really worrying about reading centralization. That's double-destructive. First of all, stopping democratisation and, on the other hand, increasing the cost of the state in total. The government often points out when it talks about a segment this is ours, science is our priority, the judiciary is our priority, the fight against corruption is our priority, and so when what hot topic is always a priority. But really when priority is all priority is nothing. And that's what's given cattle to read from this budget. There's no priority here. And it is evident then that it is concluded as all the research in that sense and shows that the government has gone completely wrong. Here we had an opportunity to hear that from Mr. Prime Minister as well as from Mr. Minister, that here in the year exports are growing. But that's what was warned or distracted attention and by the coalition government that just exports would show up in this year's, and many have denied it. But it is also the merit of a coalition government that has been able to restructure certain companies, certain companies, especially here in this export branch. And it's a pity that it doesn't continue with those projects that will also keep this situation going in the next year or the next. But it's obvious that we're dealing with another stopper that's basically spinning, but if it doesn't continue with these projects and we don't see them here right now in this budget that this indicator that we all love together right now is going to be stopped for the next year or the next years. If the budget had no ambition he really is ambitious, he was not developed here he had already been speaking already on behalf of the club of colleagues Opačić pointed out that it is not unacceptable to cut funds to the development fund. And that's exactly where it shows in one of the most visible ways that the government doesn't run one proactive policy. The long-term growth rate depends exclusively on the economic strategy and on the policy of a single government. But we haven't heard from this government or on a number of levels exactly which that economic policy leads or at least wants to lead. The situation is being resolved and it's exactly seen in the budget at hockey we're going to give everyone, nothing too much, nothing as little as some kind of "baby pope" so that right now everyone's happy. However, this does not really lead to a rational economic policy. Often, here, it is also only well established that there is an insurance of three million and 500 thousand kuna for pensions, but it is not enough to even comply with the nominal wage growth, let alone any increase. And it will soon be very clear and proven. In fact, the question to be asked is, if the economic growth is 4%, which grows everywhere in every country in itself, by itself, by the self-intention of survival for the necessary self-preservation of individual economic operators, so even individuals, hence, without any interference from the state, the state has actually committed itself to one status quo. And on the other hand, he's too optimistic to say he's going to raise ten billion kuna why the budget's increased. And it's so nonchalant, a piece of cake very simple. In terms of the state budget, we see how this revenue from excise duties on alcohol, and we have seen what kind of law is passed here by the will of the majority. But here's how it's going to grow from excise duties to alcohol. Which is illusory, after all, he cannot endure the basic and most elementary postulate logic of the first barbarians, let alone the more complex third and fourth celarates and that I no longer count. So I have a government yet another mechanism to pick out a harbinger to the people. Financial police. The financial police have seen that the Minister of High Hope is laying down in the financial police department right now. What kind of financial police the whole public knows. She was particularly active at some pre-election time. Then she hit people on certain election lists. People who weren't as professional as those in the IRS. In fact, the tax administration needs to be strengthened, the tax inspectoriam should raise salaries, and not do one new institution that often overlaps with the affairs of both institutions. And that's something that's dangerous it's causing confusion, it's expensive and we know what it's for. To scare the unsurprising. And today we have citizens coming to us, people who are scared.../The speech room has turned off small craftsmen or have small businesses of its own. After all, the financial police are one of the relics of the country that has the most crime. It's Italy, nowhere else in Europe it's not known. It is therefore necessary to strengthen tax inspections, the tax administration, because these are the people who follow all these tax entities. And they know their blood count best. Therefore, motivate these people to do their job consciously, and there will be no problem. But in addition to taxing the tax administration to scare people, to tell them that the state has no confidence in its citizens in every citizen sees a potential thief. And she herself owes the most and the day today exactly that state to the citizens. We see right at the Justice Department that the state is the biggest debtor, who doesn't pay citizens what is due, on a variety of grounds. And here we see that these funds are being provided for court settlements not to be executed so that no settlement comes at all, but to increase that amount precisely for court settlements. So he doesn't plan on paying in the future. But I'm saying that's why he likes the state to discipline others, and to begin with, it would be enough to discipline itself. This is what the Ministry of Justice is talking about as pompously as it is. 45 grand is increasing funds for ours as the sickly limped judiciary is established here. 45 thousand kuna isn't enough to even install a hip to an old grandmother. And let's not give a modest means to a resource that's expected to be a lot. And too much. We see that no means are provided for reforming criminal law, so there is no more talk about further reforms that would better incriminate economic crime and so on. But to praise it is true that the judicial academy is provided with significantly larger funds and that is something that in itself encourages if these projects are realised and drawn. But what is seriously worrying is that funds are being reduced for the corruption office, for the control of corruption of orgasorous crime, which is not our honor. The same for building capital investment in the ministry of justice. And that's what I'm saying in the end, that we have a rebalancing waiting for us, that this budget is actually one election poster, which the first spring rains will peel off. But then he will no longer come to destroy this assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, but the job of justifying the wrong projections will be left to the Minister of Finance. Who will then be brought down on a sinister opposition that, some back in 2000, and some have left terrible debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25781	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Still, I wouldn't call the judiciary sick and limp. One of those people could get hurt. Figure it out from the judiciary. ... What about the quotes? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But anyway, don't. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25782	I'll correct a few incorrect allegations just two. First that... It's not developmental. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] Yes, it is 7% developmental, it is a 14 billion difficult developmental pathway to foster exports and capital investments and out-of- budget funds and everything else. And if the government had no economic goals, today you were denied by the prime minister. I don't have time to quote it because I'm running out of time, but he said stability is a slowdown in external debt is one of the goals. Support, fostering domestic production, exports and foreign investment, employment, increasing competitiveness, education, and, of course, little social support through pensions, demographic reconstruction and defenders. And I'm particularly glad that we have the National Entrepreneurship Encouragement Programme, so I'm going to hand you a book that says "participate," "Learn and decide." Of course, to accept this kind of policy that has led to this economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25783	Please. And another correction by Marijan Bekavac, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25784	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected colleague said that when the financial police were introduced, they would pick up a hack. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25785	Okay. Sometimes the maid serves as a corzo. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25786	Can I do it, Mr. President? Thank you. So, let me repeat, an esteemed colleague said that when she was introduced, the financial police would pick up a hacker. The financial police, respected colleagues, will not pick up the hacker but will bring order to the black market and introduce financial discipline. That, therefore, is the role of the Financial Police, a distinguished colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25787	And the third correction, Honored Representative Zdravko Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25788	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable representative Ingrid Anticevic said the state is the biggest debtor, and that the government provides funds for judicial purposes and means it does not intend to pay citizens their debt. The truth is, if the government has left such an item, it is the means provided to measure those debts that they have left us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25789	Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25790	Thank you, Mr. President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Let me look back at the state budget from the primary health care corner that I belong to myself. I've been thinking here in the Assembly there are 14 doctors, 10 of which are in the hospital and there are 10 of us doctors left in primary health care, and that is, corresponds to the real division of power between primary and hospital health care. And primary health care is basic health care, first contact protection and security is the entry into the health system. A well-organised and effective should provide 70 to 80% of the health needs of the population. 70 to 80% needs. And it is a prerequisite for rational consumption of other levels of health care such as secondary and tertiary. But for an efficient and rational system and for rational health spending, we also need a balanced development of primary and hospital health care. Health rationalisation should be carried out by healthcare professionals, but without the support of healthcare users and the wider community, the effects of rationalisation and will be less than possible. When we talk about rationalization, most people will think about reducing their rights. And we are prone to improving and maintaining health, which is very often not the case. According to the World Bank report, 40% of the prescribed medicines are not used. I therefore place the emphasis on primary health care, prevention, early detection of disease and enlightenment of the population. We need programs that will encourage the feeling that we are responsible for our health. Who will teach us how to protect and preserve health and thus avoid expensive operations and hospital treatment. That's why it's good to have some new items in the budget. So here I'm going to deny a colleague who spoke in front of me that the government has defined for status quo. And I can't list all the new items, but I'll just take some of them that, here, are about the subject that I've been looking back on. There's the program "Our Kindness is the beginning of every treatment." Because I've pointed out many times that communication is one of the most powerful tools in the diagnosis of treatment. As the principal comes to me with insurance with complaints, I remember a lady saying, "My doctor's in a hurry, not enough looking at me by looking at the medicine," and when I looked at what the doctor actually wrote, I saw that, that one tablet cost almost 100 kuna-- so, without an explanation of the disease... Much smaller, which is why this program is important because the kind way will improve the outcome of treatment and often replace the medicine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because each medicine, along with its desired effects, has, unfortunately, negative effects that are often forgotten and not sufficiently pointed out. The funds are certainly not enough for this Programme but are still significant. There are certainly preventive checks of persons over the age of 45 who are being conducted this year. Then we would refer to the program of palitative care because our population is ageing and already by the proportion of older people aged 65, we are an old people and we should certainly develop this service in the future when we talk about patients' rights, then pointed out here that hospitals will not receive people who are dying. So, with this development of palitative care and hospice, we'll provide them with decent care. Then there is the Croatian Institute of Mental Health. It's scheduled this year, so it's a new item, with a million kunas. While already in the 2006 projection, that amount would be one million and 750. It is also necessary to set up a mental health centre in health homes to prevent severe mental disorders. Because we see here in this draft budget, there's treatment according to special regulations, psychiatric hospital 18 million kuna. In 2004, that amount was approximately the same and unfortunately, 83.4% spent in the first 10 months. As we often heard in this assembly, it was said that some items were not spent, the favorite expression was neither lip, and we exclusively tied it to the successful work of the government and the ministry. Because it's obviously instilled in us, firmly implanted, that we need to get detailed guidance, obligations, and that it would be good if someone were to control us. Yet the items in the budget are spent according to our programs achieved, here in health institutions, and elsewhere in others. It would then also refer to island medicine and improve health care on islands that are provided for here with 5 million and 600. The implementation of the Law on the conversion of tobacco products then increased items such as the preservation and improvement of women's health, where the item was increased by 6 times. Then, informing the primary and information system, also increasing about 5 times, and here it is good that here the emphasis is now placed on primary health care, means where the information will begin first. Then preserving oral health, it's the same increase about 9 times. Then an important item and improving the provision of emergency medical aid where out of 100 million kunas this year goes, 100 thousand goes to 480.000 kuna. Then HIV prevention. There's also a significant increase. We see these days that this special alert has risen and that this problem is present in us less than in other European countries, but it is present, so we also need prevention and enlightenment. It would also highlight improving the quality of the system in health, then preventing malignancies that are the same, increasing the item from 320 thousand to 650, and preventing malignant diseases is necessary. Because unfortunately with us malignant diseases is one of the leading causes and pains and mortality and for heart and blood vessels, the only legal way is to actually treat, prevent and detect early. All of these items I don't think are enough, but still, the shift is important. We need to be realistic about singleing out for the health care system at 9% of the gross social product and we can't do it anymore. For the amount of about $500 per capita, Slovenia, let's say, stands out three times as much, I think we have good health care and I can't agree what I heard today in the assembly, let's say, that health care is getting worse, because there really isn't one relevant indicator. In this section, as far as we stand out for the health system, we need to spend rationally and properly, and prevention and treatment at the primary level is also the simplest and for the patient, for the patient the simplest and for society the cheapest, so we need to encourage it and expect more money when sharing cookies in the Croatian Health Insurance Office. It's certainly good that we've heard today that health care in this year means more than the previous billion kuna. I don't think it's small money, and it certainly doesn't have to go over it easily, and since there's more money, I expect more money, it means more money will be found for what I suggested. I particularly support the establishment of the Centre for Mental Health and Palitative Care in the Homes of Health, I am advocacy and reduction of the number of designated insurance companies per doctor. And finally, I support this budget, and I am particularly pleased with the statement by the Head of Mission, that Croatia's external debt has been slightly increased in 9 months, that there has been a restrained and uncontrollable borrowing and a statement from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development that Croatia has made exceptional progress in the past year, that Croatia is immediately behind the countries that entered the European Union this year. It encourages and gives optimism what would be good if the government were in this assembly, so it would probably spread outside the assembly, which is what we need. And she'd just remind herself of the power of positive thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25791	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25792	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I see the budget as a guide through all the components of society from economy to environment, as well as the vision of the future individually and as a whole. So I will look very briefly at several of these segments, one of them is, of course, health care and health policy projections, then the state of defenders and families, and the vision of education, and I will end up dealing with Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or Croats in general in the world, so on those elements that are seen from this budget. When it comes to health care and health policy, I would say that the government has defined itself with this budget for the promotion of health, prevention of disease, then more quality on health care and more rights to all health care participants. When I say that, then I keep in mind that the items that I'm going to mention here, or they're being allocated a lot more funds and they're being increased or they're just being turned on. So they can also come from prevention in full, prevention of infectious diseases, then of course prevention of HIV, which is one of the greatest threats in today's world when it comes to infection. Then, of course, this is one newspaper, island medicine, and it is good that the government has defined itself in a certain way to bring health care closer to everyone no matter what part of this country lives on and thus ensure the quality of the same. Then, these items also show that the government has significantly increased the allocation of funds to prevent addiction, treat and rehabilitate addicts, the preservation of reproductive health, which is very important from the segment of population, i.e. demographic policy. Then, also significantly increased items for oral health, prevention of alcoholism, emergency or emergency medical care as one of the preconditions for safe living in any area in Croatia. Certainly, from an item related to the prevention of malignancies, I see no reason for such criticism by the opposition when it comes to health policy, but I believe that Croatia, a Croatian people, is in one state that guarantees more health for all. When it comes to family and defenders, it seems to me that in front of Croatia there are more pleasures and I believe more satisfaction for defenders, more rights. Then strengthening the family and including the defenders in their regular lives, I mean primarily rehabilitating those disabled, etc. There are certainly programmes from this domain that refer to support for defenders when it comes to their rehabilitation and care, then when it comes to the permanent one-time rights of defenders. It certainly includes items related to youth policy, then everything that goes with family and population policy, the affirmation of rights and the promotion of policies for disabled people, support for children-oriented programmes, support for social empowerment programmes for families and youth and children and persons with disabilities, then prevention of behavioural disorders, then additional maternity leave, equipment for newborn children, support for intergenerational solidarity programmes, then the development of service activities of the elderly, and the development of policies for people with disabilities as a whole. When it comes to science then, i.e. the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, it is proportionate that in front of the Croatian times, there will be healthier children and better educated and ready for the new challenges that Croatia faces. Here I primarily think of these items that are visible and which relate to learning foreign languages from the early age, then encouraging the evaluation of education, which in fact guarantees in a certain way the quality of education, then sports, information in the system, etc. When it comes to environmental protection, Croatia is at an enviable level to achieve environmental standards. I believe that these items will actually preserve and maintain those standards and further improve the state of the environment. As a representative coming from Bosnia and Herzegovina, then I am particularly interested in the projection of the government's policy towards Croats in general in the world, especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Obviously, they were all items that were left at the same level last year or at the same level or increased. So let's say we have compared to last year for 5 million more health leave in the Federation, so this year we're going to have 35 million and that's very significant. 22 million will also be allocated to exiles in the Federation, which is 2 million more. The incentives for education and science in the item states that it is 26 million and 250 million, which means that the item is also increased. I particularly welcome the introduction of the item of assistance to the Croats when it comes to science and these 12 million of course to make me happy that this item is even bigger but we have absolutely complete awareness of the moment Croatia is at and any kuna that separates itself from the Croatian state budget and goes to the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina is welcome and we are truly satisfied with it and it obliges us to manage in our own way and to actually get the results of such separations, when these items are smaller and to have some others increased. To be these smaller, given that we ourselves want to achieve more standards and education, both in health care and then actually we can solve some other things. And this other thing is actually taking care of the HVO victims mentioned by Mrs Zdenka Babić-Petričević, so Croatia is now singled out and taking care of part of Croatian victims of the Croatian Defence Council. However, in the budget projection, it would be good to form the item in the coming years, as this government does not conceal anything. The government transparently supports Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It would therefore be important to think about it in the future and, in fact, within the framework of the interstate agreement, between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and to give more rights to Croatian defenders of the Croatian Council of Defence and especially the victims. Also my support for all those items, i.e. all those attempts to bring the Croatian man from the world closer to Croatia, that, without regard to where he lives, I am now not talking about Bosnia and Herzegovina, but in general. Well then we see here and the item for the scholarship of Croats outside Croatia, which is very important. Then items related to the monitoring of television programmes, Croatians in diaspora, so in the world, additional schools and Croatian radio as such. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude in fact this exhibition with the conclusion that adopting the budget Croatia will be more economically stable, socially secure and healthy. So my full support and my vote for this budget. I don't see any reason for the skepticism coming from this side of the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25793	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25794	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I highly appreciate and respect my colleague Bagarić, and I am pleased to note in the final part that he has highlighted a major problem for the members of the Croatian Defence Council that this problem is unresolved and is expected to be solved by new Laws on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Otherwise speaking this way, listening to the side does not only apply to colleagues of Bagaric, it would be said that we are a country of prosperity, that it is all wonderful and wonderful, but we know ourselves what the situation is that we are over-indebted country, that we do not cover 50% of imports-exports, that our deficit is huge, that we are over-indebted, that 300 and some thousand are unemployed. The truth of the figure has been slightly reduced only because of an administrative solution, as they have been deleted from the Employment Service, the situation is more than difficult in this country. And we have to have visions and ideas, not to brag about anything, not even Minister Shucker was easy to put together this budget. The question of how to fill it, because we have to go to new employment and everything else we have to solve the issue of armed forces, we have to solve the issue of coast guard, the question of pensioners. Therefore, the situation is more than difficult and more dramatic and therefore, there is no euphoria that this budget is something magnificent. He's who he is, we'll see what he'll be like in the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25795	Thank you very much. Answer to the replica Mr. Bagaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25796	Mr. Kovacevic. When you talk about the land of prosperity, then I'll only tell you one thing. Depending on who you want to compare yourself to. Since this is the country that has been through the war's suffering as it is in the amount that it is and that now in it is the state it is, then I really think this is the land of prosperity. Come on, if there's nothing else to compare with the nearest neighbors, I'm not telling you personally, because I think I'm a part of you, so I'm not leaving myself alone, but certainly the country in the nearest environment like Bosnia and Herzegovina is seen behind Croatia. So, just a little bit, what do we want? Canada? Well, we will, right now we're doing it to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25797	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Joseph Leco, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25798	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ministers of the Croatian Government, representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I need to publicly say that I have no illusions that my debate will change any item in the draft budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005. And another excuse for you who have to listen to me here, and you do not want to listen to me, I will not read my whole exposure, but I will speak as I feel, and I address those who have given me the confidence to represent them in this Croatian assembly. I'll start by saying my general price as I see the 2005 draft budget. In my opinion, it is not really a developmental or long-term social budget of the draft budget. He's really just a wasteful guy. It is wasteful and out of the need of not the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because they are more responsible for spending money than for the need of the ruling majority, direct political commitments, so to elect local and presidential ones. And another assessment, nothing new in HDZ's economic and financial policy since the 93th Stabilisation Programme, I think that it has been brought by the government of Nikica Valentiæ and proposed to the parliament by today. Some of the good changes not brave enough have occurred in the coalition government last termed unfortunately not brave enough and determined, yet very important for change. Why do I think so? I only think that investment spending, therefore, in development programmes that open the perspective of Croatian citizens to the employment of the current 307 thousand Croatian citizens of the unemployed especially future generations, cannot read their bright perspective from this budget. The budget really makes more sure it is assessed as good than the International Monetary Fund, rather than 307,000 unemployed Croats. For my opinion there are several reasons, they are in the items of the proposed budget. First of all, the only important valid leverage of the Croatian Government to encourage development in the situation in Croatia when Croatian banks were sold, when privatisation was made in the Croatian way, is the HBOR, a bank that can encourage and train the Croatian economy with its programme, Croatia's economy to achieve satisfactory competition in the markets for which Croatia's economy is turned, i.e. the Croatian state is turned, and these are the markets of the European Union countries. This budget does not foresee an increase in almost no, almost correcting myself, opportunities to foster development through the HBOR or the Employment Fund and the Development Fund. If we just look at how many Croatian banks have done business, which was only this year, and where did that profit go, I ask the question, do Croatian banks take care of the situation on opportunities, economic opportunities and do they go more riskyly into the investment programmes offered in Croatia, and they are very few? They're not going. It is therefore very important that HABOR and the Government through HABOR have designed incentives for new programmes and new developments. It is clearly said in the budget's explanation, and that is what all government representatives say is that the reality of this budget is based on direct investment as the government's representatives say and on the "Green Field" ledge. Is it realistic to expect direct investment if we have the system we have. The government argues that the judiciary is slow, inefficient, that the records of state public books are incorrect, incorrect, that the state administration is slow, inefficient, trom, bureaucratic. It's an important part of what the government was talking about when it came to power. There are no clear and precise programmes in this budget. When the world estimates that Croatian society is corrupt, it is increasingly possible to expect it from the so-called. direct investment to be enough money for an ambitious programme to bring the state deficit down to 1.7 by 2007. It's not possible. I say it publicly and it will remain written down. It's not possible. It is not possible, however, that the government predicted to sell 4 billion Croatian companies next year. This means that 4 billion of Croatia's highest quality capital will be sold next year. That's possible next year, but what in 2008, what are we going to sell then? If we do not now turn to investment in development and investment, if we do not now come up with anti-corruption programmes, for more efficient judiciary, for land books, for a depositary organisation, for investment security, etc. Therefore, it is not possible to expect that direct investment revenue will be at the level of ensuring the fiscal profit of the budget at the levels proposed. That's not even the worst part of this proposal. It is worse that from selling the most quality companies such as Croatia, INA, HEP or not, God of the road or something else will not be translated into new investments and new investment programmes, but again into consumption. If that is what it can expect, then 307,000 current unemployed citizens of the Republic of Croatia, what can be expected for those who are now graduating from high school or university, what can entrepreneurs who certainly know what is waiting for them in the competition in the European Union markets and we are struggling to join the European Union. Only God knows. I think God will help us start Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25799	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Niko Rebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25800	I will correct more inaccuracies from Mr Leka's presentation and will deny them all by writing a report from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development presented in this report for 2004. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] So here is among the 27 transition countries in the report that, according to progress in structural reforms, Croatia can be a model country or transition model for future candidates to join the European Union and even recent new members. Chief... This is how the European Development Bank presented our country and listening to the opposition catastrophes, in fact, the Croatian public could sleep peacefully because this government is really going in the right direction and I think there is no reason to succumb to these catastrophic efforts assessments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, for God's sake, it'll be more credible if you say something's worth something in this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25801	Time's up. Thank you very much. We have one replica of Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25802	Mr. Vice President, I would like to rephrase to the distinguished Mr. Lecki in that part when he saw that he was not reading from the draft budget the part that should have actually invested in solving that burning problem that the government recognized as a problem in terms of that first step when it comes to investment at all, especially foreign investment. Therefore, it is about ownership-legal relations or solving situations in the land-book departments of municipal courts or granaries. Directly perhaps not in these positions, although they are also protected under the Ministry of Justice. Take a look at only an esteemed colleague's position as an increase in the positions of the geodetic administration as much as the funds are actually provided in this particular sense by this draft budget, with this budget, so that this recognition of the government's problem in the next fiscal year is resolved. And in what way was he resolved? We are all fully aware of the fact that until we solve this in the same way as the catastrus and land-booking departments of municipal courts, so until we introduce the most modern form and entries of land and access to ownership in terms of resolving ownership-legal relations, so the Government is aware of this problem, investing funds, will invest funds to address these problems as soon as possible as possible problems in terms of placing the investment. And in terms of judicial reform, too. Not only has this been recognised as a problem, but it has already taken a number of concrete moves that we can see on our large centres such as Split, Zagreb and in smaller areas. So, the support absolutely in this sense is in this government's efforts both through the geodetic administration and through the Ministry of Justice that this situation in the land and book departments of municipal courts is resolved as soon as possible and that we open up what is said not to be revealed but to open the door to all forms in this sense investment especially by foreign ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25803	Thank you very much. Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25804	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Tomljanovic. I know that Croatia signed a 29m-euro loan with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for that purpose, and it is not questionable for me, nor does it matter to me what the government did, nor does it matter to the citizens of Croatia because we are little in political parties. So, this solves only part of the problem and until all of Croatia is covered with valid land books, with confidence in land books there will be no investment on the ice that I assure you and I sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25805	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25806	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I will not look back in my debate in such a way, knowing that we cannot go into certain items of the budget. I will talk more in principle about the proposed budget and projections for the next two years. By definition, the budget is redistribution of the works of the social product, in our case in Croatia it almost approaches 50% and then in such a situation and the budgets are almost always backwards. The budget is also a mirror of the policy that one Government implements in this current year for which the budget is proposed. So on that basis, they can also be evaluated, and they can assess their implementation and the success of a policy. This morning, the Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader, spoke with a lot of optimism about this budget, optimism is good when it comes to results, and we would all like to see his optimistic wishes come true, but I don't think there's much satisfaction in such optimism if we unsecure this draft budget a little bit more. It is referred to as some great achievement that we have received and projection of the budget for the next two years, however, it is a legal obligation and it would really be even better if we had followed the Budget Law until the end and we had also obtained plans for development programmes, jobs, long-term acquisitions, then we could see from some of the aggregate indicators and items in the budget that are concrete development programmes, in which the amount of funding will then be visible in this budget, which is not the case now and most likely to be addressed in a way that will have a greater political impact and will have more programmes that will be co-financed from the budget. We would also see how many systematicized, or filled jobs are in the state administration, and then we could say very objectively whether there have been reforms, whether there have been any shifts and whether there are more or less employees on these jobs, of course, and what dynamics long-term assets will be obtained. There's no such thing. That is why I will give the assessment that this budget has not defined priorities that would ensure a long-term positive environment for entrepreneurship and economic development in the time of Croatia's preparation for full membership of the European Union. It is visible through the lack of stronger legislative activity in the first year of this term but also through the first annual budget proposed by this government. The draft budget recognises the manuscript of the International Monetary Fund, which wants to be camouflaged by a bountifully significant increase in support of the economy and social contributions. I have the right to my grade, Mr. Minister. And actually, the government wants to reconcile the uncompromising. Restrictive IMF requirements and their election promises. The result is this Budget Proposal that tries to satisfy the current coalition partners so that each group of interested, “interested” under quotes gives some and the math ultimately has to satisfy the level of deficits of 3.7%. I'll say that on two examples. Real GDP growth of 4.4% is planned, inflation of 2.5% and from planned social contributions and income tax whose growth is 8.3% turns out to rise by that percentage which is not realistic, no entrepreneur will have lower results while increasing in higher wages. It is similar with VAT revenue whose growth is also planned here around 8% in particular 7.9% and we know how it is calculated and what it is applied to, therefore to the newly created value or to imports and we will also have a lower rate of imports, probably because the potential of the population for consumption is less and there is a small trade traffic planned. That's why the proceeds from the sale of assets are very certain, they are planned at an amount of $4.4 billion. The IMF signed an agreement to speed up privatisation and end by the end of 2006 or by mid-2006 and then the question arises if all these privatisation revenues go to budgets next year, which will happen in 2007, 08, 09 and so on. If we don't have bigger shifts in the economy? And on the spending side, with the already said way of satisfying certain users of the state budget, it is trying to create an illusion of an increase in investment in development. But other than road construction, there's no actual designs. The question is what about projects for accessing, European access funds, who will do it, what institutions, what people, teams of people who are already qualified to do such projects that are very demanding. I'll say something about agriculture. With Croatia's entry into the WTO, we have had a transitional period on the elimination of customs duties for agriculture and food industry that ends early 2006, so this is the last year when we will be able to use support for the domestic agricultural and food industry in this way. Preparations for entering the European Union for Agriculture are particularly unfavourable for us and we have not made any moves there. Subsidies remain the same, the increase is only 1.2%, these are classic direct support without priority to increase the desired or... True, two new programmes are being promoted, which is a programme of 30,000 hectares of long-term plantations, however, not enough preparations have been made here, in order for this to be done to have adequate land prepared, fruit material, should be said that it is not, that it cannot be obtained on the free market, it is being prepared, it contracts purchases in advance and it takes at least 3 years to produce it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So only if we start now, in two or three years we can have some more serious results. The area reserved for agricultural production is well-minded. For demining, an increase of only 1% is planned. In fact, the cattle production programme only repeated itself periodically but has not produced any special results so far. There's not much savings on the spending side. For example. The cost of official travel increases by 26%, the promotion of information 35%, the team 21%, and the famous directorate for the use of the official plane by 43% of their costs. But at the same time, for example, so many stories about pensions, we have a situation that pensions, the mass of pensions, will grow only 4.1%. Here is an interesting situation, the Retirement Law predicts that they comply with the average wage growth, nominal growth for the first 6 months was 6.1%, harmonisation was past the real salary growth rate of 4%, which was, of course, an agreement with the IMF and it was as such and signed. For next year, I said, A projection that we can extract from some of the revenue planned in the budget is almost 8% of the salary growth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And an increase of 4.1% for pensions can't even cover this potential real salary growth. It has already been said here that 1% of pension growth at the annual level should be secured by around 240 million kuna. So neither one actually, this, group can be satisfied. To sum it up together, we're going to spend almost 100 billion kuna, we're going to be in charge of about 20 billion kuna gross. Netto's going to be something smaller. The question is, how long can this trend take place? I'd like to share our Prime Minister's optimism, but I'm afraid he's covered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25807	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25808	Thank you. Dear Vice President, honourable ministers and members of the government. There are two strong reasons why I cannot support the adoption of this budget. First of all, it is the central state's relationship to local self-government, and secondly it is to meet the needs of the people of Koprivnica-Kristevci County. What is it about the state towards cities and municipalities that is holding me back in support of this budget? So today it is absolutely evident that in May of next year citizens will not be able to choose the mayors, mayors and mayors directly. We found out about that a month ago. However, this budget speaks of the lack of decentralisation. There's nothing from the strength of local self-government units, that there's nothing more tax to stay in cities and municipalities. 92% of the tax money will still be collected here at Mark's square. Further 4 and a half percent will be collected in Stjepan Radić Square where the headquarters of the city of Zagreb is located, and 5 billion will remain for all cities, counties and municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The state will have 93 and a half billion in next year, the city of Zagreb with slightly more than 6 billion, and all cities, municipalities and all counties with less than 5 billion and with this money the mayors, mayors and mayors should ensure the rise of quality of life in their units of local self-government. In this way, Croatia remains the most centralised country of the Member States and candidate countries for the European Union. So let's say to the citizens clearly, unequivocally: you won't be able to choose the mayors directly and yours, your local self-government, your cities and municipalities will not have more money in the term of this government to solve your problems. The government is organising international conferences and the prime minister is promising decentralisation wherever he arrives, but this budget is denying it all. Yet Mark’s square seems to be better seen in the needs and problems of certain cities than is seen in these cities, as the citizens and city headsmen of these cities see. Secondly, no capital investment reported by the Koprivnica-Kristevina County was found in this state budget. I remind you of the huge problem of high schools in Koprivnica. Three high schools work in the same building. In 25 classrooms there is teaching for 83 classrooms in 3 shifts. Sanitary nodes have been converted into classrooms and are thus allowed to at least where children in Koprivnica can go to high school. And today, when the city invested more than 20 million kunas in land, in the utility of the land, when it developed projects for the new high school building, the building permit will be in mid-December, the school cannot be found in the state budget. Although parents are generously full of state budgets, it is obvious that Koprivnica children do not deserve better conditions for education. Should it be said that the existing building was built by self-sufficient citizens, not money from the state budget. There is a similar situation in high school in Križevci where high school students also go on three shifts, and there is a huge need to upgrade the dormitory. Do children, for example, have the right to a sports hall in Klostr Podravski, Kalinovec, Virje or Novigrad Podravski? Or do the children in Trema and Lower Great have the right to build them a school because, for example, children in Lower Great go to a life - threatening facility. I wonder where the board of the Ministry of Education is now laying down the conditions for opening schools not to come and close that school until something happened to some kid. Of the 170 schools and sports halls built from the state budget, money from the state budget, none, but not one is built in Koprivnica-Kryzevci County. That's probably one big question they're gonna have to answer. For example, the second, Koprivnica-križevci County, County with the lowest availability of public water. Only 30% of households can be connected to public plumbing. Although the county has built a master's plan to build a water supply system in this year's budget, only 3 million kunas were proposed for it or two million kunas less than in 2004. With these three million kunas, you can build two, two and a half kilometers of master water. It is, it is insufficient to connect only Djelekovec and Legrad with the masteral water line, let alone build watersheds in Dzepelovac, Bukovje. To start building a new water supply site in Koprivnica. To build highway waterways towards the municipalities of Ferdinand, Gornja Rijeka, Kloštar Podravski, Sveti Ivan Žabno or St. Peter Orehovac. At this rate, it will take 24 years for the citizens of Koprivnica and Križevci County to be able to connect to the public water supply system. Who will explain to the citizens of Koprivnica that there will be no investment of state roads in the area of the town of Koprivnica, Croatian roads on the state road in the area of the town of Koprivnica. And the Podravska highway passes almost downtown. And what is most important and saddest this year was more accidents with deadly consequences on that road or on the state roads in Koprivnica than in 4 years, in the previous 4 years. Or what about building a Podravska highway in the speed road profile. Or will the Gradec-Koprivnica fast road be built by 2007? Unfortunately, we can't even talk about it because we didn't get a plan to build and maintain Croatian roads, which is the obligation of the Croatian roads to propose a plan to the Parliament for the next 4 years. Example 3. An agreement was signed between the Ministry of Health and the Koprivnica-Kristevnica County on the construction of a new Internal Building. There's no funding. Has the state given up the signed agreement? I heard today that even 20 million kuna from the World Bank loan for, intended for the pilot, a health system reform project in Koprivnica-Kryzevci County, has been rerouted to the coastal Croatia. So what's happening to us? Is it here to say that Koprivnica-Kryzevačka County is the only county with the town of Zagreb and the Istrian County that collects more contributions for health insurance than the return of money to pay for the health services of citizens and residents of these counties? And until today, no contract has been concluded with the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance between the hospital and the HZZO because it offers an increase in the limit that is less than the increase in employees' salaries in the county hospital and according to the collective contract. Although the town of Koprivnica was ready to participate in the preparation of the new Centre for Social Care, there is no item in the budget. By 2008, there seems to be no way to fix the extremely bad conditions for working at the Social Care Centre. Otherwise, the Social Care Centre was set out in the 2004 budget but fell out in the rebalancing process. Nor was the proposal to create normal conditions for the operation of the Municipal and County Court in Koprivnica, although these are the most up-to-date courts in Croatia, and the grantovnica is daily up-to-date. Gruntovnica is perfectly up-to-date. The same day, you can get a granite excerpt. There's no problem with the cathedral or with the granite. But that's why we can't get computers, 8 PCs as requested this year, the garter got one, one computer. I am pleased that the prime minister has today claimed that Croatia will lag behind the master criteria in 2008. But gentlemen, for a long time, no quality of life will be allowed at the European level in Koprivnica and Koprivnica-Kristevci County, for a long time citizens will be able to join the public water supply. For a long time, children in Koprivnica Cruise County will not be able to go to school and not to one-way work as children in Europe can. Are citizens really important to us at all? The government of Koprivnica and Koprivnica Crevevac County sees one as a valuable source of tax revenues, but does not consider it necessary to address even the minimum conditions for development. Although extremely much work creates above average tax revenues, citizens cannot have the quality of life they deserve. Therefore, only a high degree of decentralisation can enable the citizens of Koprivnica to solve their problems. Because from Mark's square, Koprivnica is clearly not visible, except when it takes a hand to collect tax revenues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25809	Thank you very much. The word now has Madam Representative Ivana Sučec the Trakostanec here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25810	I thank Mr. Vice-President, I will not think about it, whether a glass is half full or half empty, congratulating those people who, under certain circumstances, have worked hard in the process of putting together this budget. To do what promises not only the fulfillment of the pre-election promises of the Croatian Democratic Community, but also the better life in small shifts, the most minimal in 2004 and then a little bit after the 05th, 06th and 07th of which we have some projections. So there were several processes at the same time. Ministers and Prime Ministers and we all had to pay our debts from last year's commitments first. On the provisional budget, bring a new one, which was brought only in late April. Work normally and, of course, keep an account of how long-term this natural charge between the social and developmental parts is reconciled in a way that we must also take care of the mental part of our people, of course over 50 years we are all taught to ask for everything from the state. And it's hard to introduce a new way of thinking in a short time, to bring us all into entrepreneurship, of course, that all these shifts are in favour of it, and I hope that when we talk about the implementation of this budget, of course, they will talk a little differently than they say today. Because what's going to happen here isn't unrealistic. What I'm most interested in right now is not going to talk a lot about in terms of puzzling and macroeconomic indicators, which therefore facilitate the story and the budget. I'll talk about three things. First, I am interested in agriculture, because I come from northwestern Croatia from Koprivnica Crossing County, so it happened to happen that I am behind all of Mršić's colleagues. So I wasn't answering the wrong allegations, but of course I'm going to say a little bit about our county's Cookie Concu cure at the end. And then I'd say with that farm that I'm not completely satisfied because there's no money we couldn't invest in our village. And which the village could not consume in any of the forms offered today. However, first in synthetically looking, it is evident that all those programs that are being started are being continued. Four new ones have been introduced, that the total amount in both the name of the aid and the name of the participation in market interventions is increased by 200 million kuna. And on those things that matter, so that the rural development for which nothing was singled out this year in 2003 is supported by 24 million kunas, so it will be with 30 million kunas supported next year. And with even 66, 06 and 07, and that's what's good for our small places that are mostly in northern western Croatia. Therefore, support for non-competitional farmers. In 2003, 13.8 billion were paid. This year it's going to be 24, and per year it's going to be 40 and 60 and 62. Well isn't that caring about our village, isn't that caring about those who can't do it. And I am glad that in this budget, too, those economies that are market-oriented and those economies that retain one vision of our village are definitely separated, but cannot therefore deal with those that we will meet when we enter Europe. And it's not true that we're not getting ready for Europe like someone said today, that we're going to be confused, because with 4 programs, which are the operational programme of raising vineyards to olives, orchards and the development of bovine animals, and with the money under those positions particularly demonstrated at the level of the Ministry of Agriculture. Surely we will, time is not in our favor, perhaps we will lack time and people more than the money that is intended for it. Therefore, we will have to increase the number of our kilograms of produced fruit, vegetables, grapes, meat and milk. And it will guarantee the start Croatia deserves. Honey and milk will not flow and no one will say that Croatia is easy to live in. But it's not easy to live in other countries either. All those who have had the opportunity or the happiness of traveling around the world, and by comparing life in Croatia, I will not now be doing this, I can say that in Croatia live above the standards of what we deserve. Unfortunately, we all live on credit, but it's not the state's fault, it's our habit. And therefore, we will have to change our behavior slowly from education of relations towards and responsibilities towards the state and the state, and that is also the end of the task and this budget. And for that, looking at and introducing new technologies of the education system, the money is secured. I am also so pleased to see that 21 million kunas will be allocated to our county for the water supply of Koprivnica Crossing County, so with this money they will still be able to do something about it. And don't forget, then, to St. John's. John the Frog will flow, the highway water has already come near because I live there. That's probably what Mr. Mršić was going to say. But we entered the program of Croatian waters, so not everything that is not in the budget can be said that does not exist. There is. Public Croatian companies, there are state administrations, state offices, there are funds. So if I say that even a modest amount of 40,000 kunas the Family Administration plans to spend through our Red Cross in Koprivnica is some kind of money that's going to blend into Koprivnica. And the budget itself will come directly this year over 8 and a half million kuna. Plus, of course, the programs from the Ministry of Environmental Protection through the disposal of the dump, and all those support to certain municipalities, so. We have 21 municipalities and three cities and they are directly involved in programmes and ministries, and their development of spatial plans and their draining water has been supported. And their water supply and all other activities and regional development fund naturally directly cooperates with them and assists them. Not to mention those assets that are across different ministries, and now I've been through this bookroom. So in that book, there's more to it than I've ever said in agriculture, the possibility of new guarantees. Where people don't have to have their own mortgages or money. So it's all supporting development and agriculture infrastructure and, of course, life in certain small environments. I'm not doing any more doctoring. I'd just like to say two more sentences as chairman of the Croatian Minorities Subcommittee. YES, in those million kunas of direct money that I see, I don't see an exclusive inflow that will stand out for that purpose. So I am glad that it is right at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that it is staffed with an assistant with immigration, emigration and Croatian minorities and that probably in that division and the 25 million Ministry of Science and in the division of the Ministry of Culture, additional funds will be found to support the work of Croatian minorities in 9 European countries according to the programmes they will subsidise, and the Croatian state will control their implementation and their strict purpose. Thank you, Mr. Vice President, and we could talk about the budget each and every one of us for days, but by saving all the time, I think I've touched those most important moments and I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25811	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First is Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25812	Thank you very much. Well, an esteemed colleague said there's something in the budget or in these plans ahead of us that's certainly going to be done and realized, but you can't see. This is true, because there is an Article 38 in the Budget Implementation Act which states that there was no respect for the provisions of Articles 10, 26, 28 and 29. The budget law, and these provisions, say approximately that the financial plan of extra- budget users consists of the general part and the specific part in which incomes and receipts are shown, and expenditure and expenditure allocated to current and development programmes. In Article 26(3), the Ministry also undertakes that, when drawing up the budget, the Joint Proposal for a Development Programme must be harmonised. Now, if the provisions of the Budget Law had been respected, they probably wouldn't have guessed what's different from the development programs in the water, in the roads, in the highways, so maybe some of our grades would be different. I think obviously in a privileged position which, although these articles of the Budget Act were not respected, you have this information. So if you have them and if that's exactly what you said, share those secrets with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25813	Thank you. Replication response. Mrs. Ivana Sučec-Thrakostane.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25814	Given that a number of funds from different positions of the ministries of synthetically displayed, here I will only mention some, for example in this ministry that I held, agriculture, and this is called encouraging agricultural production of intervention on the market, is called income support, it's called investment support in agriculture, it's called intervention, I'm not sure there's someone, and it's being allocated, based on certain programmes, who could advance, or contests, public calls or others, so to say opportunity or arrangements, someone who could have 800 million or 700 million kuna in the budget planned to individual users and even in individual counties, and I don't know if it even exists as a methodology anywhere in the world and how someone imagines it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25815	Thank you. Another replica. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25816	Well, thank you to my colleague for reminding me that as many as 40,000 kunas will be poured into Koprivnica for the family counselling center that works with the Red Cross City Society. I'm sorry that it won't match 200 or 300 or 500 thousand kuna to help older people like that in Varazdin, but it can't be combined because we couldn't report to the competition. I am sorry that there will be no money for public works that we have in Koprivnica, where we hired 15 Croatian defenders, who were almost unemployed and some other whole series of other programs we could not contact, because the competitions simply do not exist. But here we are pleased to be informed that as many as 40,000 kunas will be poured into Koprivnica this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25817	Done. ... Not after he's finished, sir. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's move on. Mrs. Attorney Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25818	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues, I will bow to my belief in the matter to all those who have assessed this budget as something that has already been less known. You remember when we discussed the truth later and about the government's agreement with the IMF, and even when we discussed the implementation of the state budget the other day for the first six months, it was already quite clear what this budget would be and obviously it is exactly what it would be if we remembered what it said in the agreement signed with the IMF. However, I will now look back at a few things in this debate. One of them is, and also concerns one of the main objectives that this budget is supposed to achieve, and that is one of the main objectives that the Government has propagated in this Parliament as well. It's a state administration reform. The reform of the state administration has begun with a reduction in the number of ministries, i.e. I will say with a mere merger of certain ministries in order to reduce the number of ministries, you might say, here we have a smaller state administration. I claim today, half of the 11th month, that, as far as the state administration's reforms are concerned, it's all that's left of it. At a reduced number of ministries, and all that we talk about when we talk about reforming the state administration, about what state administration should be in the Republic of Croatia, when we talk about reducing the state apparatus, the number of employees, we are talking about the need to train state officials and tenants, to educate them, in new employment, to employ quality personnel that will contribute to an effective, efficient, more transparent state administration, the administration that will be at the disposition and availability of our country's citizens. So, among other things, this year the Government of the Republic of Croatia brought and adopted a document called the Professional Training Strategy and the training of civil servants. There's this document, like, a 10-page story that says it's nice. It says, as one of its priorities, the government has highlighted its willingness to reform the state and public administration thoroughly, in this sense the Government of the Republic of Croatia considers that one of the key conditions for achieving modern, efficient and effective state and public administrations that will allow the mentioned objectives to be adapted to European standards, etc., etc. Among other things, this document also provides for a suitable model of the system of vocational training and training. It is predicted that the national budget will provide for these needs annually, please be careful, 3% of the total fees for civil servants' salaries. I believe you've looked at all these documents, the plans we've received in support of this budget. Among other things, it says that as far as the pay goes, and that, I'll only take salaries for regular work, it's 13 billion 31 million 110 thousand 914 kuna. Try to figure out what 3% is. And I'm saying all of this because maybe we should pay more attention to those items that we have in every government office, which we have in every ministry, and it's roughly professional employee training. So whatever that means, and when you look at the items in every ministry, in every office how big they are, then you're really going to come up with some ridiculous amounts. Not to say that it turns out that for this year, if execution at the 10th month of this year, not half of those funds were even used. I would very much like to have someone explain what is among other tasks of the Centre for the Professional Training of Civil Servants. Namely, such a single centre was established under the government's new structure within the Central State Administration Office. For the past year, i.e. for this year 2004, the plan of the Centre was 800, i.e. the budget was 860 thousand kuna. The execution by 10.11.2004 was 8.4% or 72 thousand 450 kuna of which totals 70 thousand kuna on official travel. For this year, the amount for this Centre has been reduced and it amounts to 784 thousand kuna, but is scheduled again to make a third of these funds go on official travel. At the same time, gentlemen, I had the opportunity to go back 2 months, because they told me so, asking the Secretary of Parliament to have one employee working within the Committee on Gender Equality go on professional training to get the opportunity to put up reports from the Thematic Sessions, let's say, my board. Because reports from the thematic sessions can't be put on Parliament's website through the Service. You can only report from regular sessions. After more than 2 months, I, as chairman of the Committee and that official, are still waiting for an answer, or we are waiting for approval. At the same time, of course, an item needs to be considered as to how much improvement is spent both from the level of the Parliament and what this improvement actually refers to. I don't think perfecting is just learning a foreign language. Next, I'm sorry there's no Minister Vukelic here, he's been here the whole time. I want to say something relating to employment, which refers to the objectively difficult position of the woman in the labour market, which refers to the Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Sector within the Ministry of Economy. Otherwise, it is a very hot book you gave your colleague Antičević-Marinović, but the books are one thing, and the practice is something else. In fact, someone has already mentioned, in October, compared to September when 299 thousand 469 unemployed in Croatia were in October, according to the Croatian Employment Service 307 thousand 508 unemployed. Of which 58 and a half percent of the total share are women. I mention this because I again ask a question that no one can answer me, which is why national gender equality policies are not respected in this sector as well, and the Law on Gender Equality. If the minister is not aware of this, his associates should be familiar with this and I ask the question, why is the item "entrepreneurship of women and entrepreneurship of young people" being expelled from the budget? And now it's all set up together in a group called 'encouragement of target groups of society', so it's listed: beginners, young people, women, defenders, social services activities. For these purposes too, 4 million kunas are scheduled for next year, and when young and women entrepreneurs were separated, 4 and a half million kunas were foreseen. The second is, of course, a pair of sleeves which unfortunately, say, neither the Ministry of Economy when it comes to the entrepreneurship of women of estimated millions and 500 thousand kunas was reached at least 1.3%, and out of the million kunas planned to promote youth entrepreneurship, 0.0% were achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25819	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Representative Zdravko Sočković's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25820	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, today we are discussing the proposal for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 with the Proposition of projection of the 2006 and 2007 budget. As due to the parliamentary elections, the first quarter of 2004 had temporary funding, then this is the first full budget proposed by this government. This government is also the first to propose a draft budget in advance for 2006 and 2007, which will help us all to better look at the entire Croatian Government programme in its 4-year term, which is for every praise. We all know that the state budget is the most important document of every government, including the one from which we can recognise the government's intention, which is a sustainable fiscal policy and the macroeconomic stability of Croatia. I must point out that the government took over under a lot of difficult circumstances when there was a slight decline in gross social product in the last quarter of 2003, and more than 6 billion unmistakable liabilities were transferred. Let us only remember the Croatian Railways where we had a commitment of about 1.6 billion, the HAC as well as 800 million kunas of unpaid incentives in agriculture, especially when the past government deceived representatives of the IMF, the European Community, as well as the entire Croatian public who had been deceived by showing incorrect data claiming that the deficit was calculated for 2003 4 and a half, and not 6.3% which is true. For the first 9 months of 2004 it is evident that the mild dynamics of economic recovery and economic activity are visible. Therefore, in the last quarter of 2003, a slight decline that was also in the first two months of 2004, but now in the last 6 months industrial production has been visiblely recovering and in September 2004 it has seen an annual growth of 3%. The budget deficit was reduced in 2004 and exports of the Republic of Croatia increased faster than imports. For the first nine months of this year, exports increased by 16.9% and imports increased by 6.3%. Export coverage is now 52.9%. Inflation is slightly greater than 2% despite the huge oil purchases that took place on the world market. The number of unemployed fell below 300 thousand for the first time and we are recording the lowest unemployment rate in the last 5 years. The rise in external debt in 2004 was about 10 and a half billion, which is tolerable compared to 2003. In September 2004, external debt was reduced by $10m, and that was the first time there was a debt reduction. All of this together affects the reduction of government budget deficits and the overall reduction of external debt. We must not forget the most successful tourist season that has been the best since Croatia's independence to date. Budget revenues in 2005 totalled €86.4 billion increased by 5% compared to 2004. The expected growth of the gross social product at a rate of 4.4%, the planned inflation rate is 2.5%, the growth of industrial production is 4.1%), and the total budget deficit of 3.7% of the gross social product. The expenditure side of the 2005 budget speaks of a budget that includes both a social and development component with the ultimate goal of increasing Croatian citizens' standards. The social policy of this budget is reflected in increased publications relating to, for example, children's allowances 1.6 billion, for the maternity benefits of 1.2 billion, and the increase in funding is also evident in the achievement of greater rights of Croatian defenders, and greater funding for pension payments, as well as the previous items mentioned above, can be helped to ensure that the demographic reconstruction of Croatia will certainly benefit greatly from this. The development component of this budget is evident in the Croatian highway allocations of around 4 billion, Croatia's 2 billion roads, Croatia's water billion and 700, Croatia's railways 2.8 billion and a series of programmes that were given through the Ministry of Economy. I would especially like to emphasise that the victory in the November 23rd 2003 elections welcomed the HDZ victory on the coalition's knife as if it were going to be the end of the world, and it was pointed out that there would be a setback in Croatia's negotiations with about joining the European Community and another thing that was said that the Croatian Democratic Community would stop all development programmes primarily of road construction, reconstruction of railways and all others we have heard for a very long time this year. And what happened on the contrary, Croatia has accelerated the process of negotiating with the European Community thanks to the efforts of this government and President Sanader, I think we have accelerated much more than the former government, but the Croatian roads are also being further built, the 5C corridor will be built, we are going with reconstruction and reconstruction of the railways, if we have seen that the detachments for the railways were in 2003 and 900 million, in 2004 billion and 600, and in 2005, 2 billion and 800 kuna were foreseen. I am particularly pleased that I come from Brod-Posavina County where Đura Djakovica’s programme is largely based on Croatian railways, for reconstruction of the production of wagons, where for a time there was great propaganda that there would be no more work for Đura Djakovic on railways. We can see that's not the case, and based on all of this, I think it's perfectly normal for a budget like this to be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25821	Thank you very much. It is up to the honourable representative Ivanka Roksandić to be with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25822	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Ministers and members of the Government. I will probably be more optimistic in my presentation than some colleagues and I will talk mainly about that part of the budget relating to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and that part of education and sports because I am really pleased that for the first time we can see that part of the budget for education has grown. According to this Budget Proposal, it could be said that it is both truly developmental and realistic, it is very important to point out that the Ministry has recognised that throughout the whole range of programmes work with gifted students and students is very important and has significantly increased this item in the budget to as much as 3 million kuna. Special attention is being paid to me by a former professor at a professional school, and this ministry has finally had for vocational education, and so far it has not paid much attention to this part, and in this budget there are new items for preparing disabled textbooks that have been really disabled for years, almost not having been available in vocational education with a million-and-a-half kuna, which is a very significant prerequisite for quality education, vocational education. In order to create a single vocational programme, vocational schools stand out on the draft budget in 2005 of as much as 15 million kuna and to improve education and we know that this is all because of the dynamicity of adapting to new work technologies, a special vocational education agency is being launched for this first year for its regular activity of 3 million and 700 kuna, and if we add another 600 thousand kuna to edit the space then it is a significant new means for new programmes. And in the preschool education part, we are all sensitive to children are also provided significant funds of 4 million kuna for the preschool program because unfortunately all children are not included in Croatia by going to kindergartens and they do not have the ability to prepare for school, so here they are with, although these are not significant funds and sufficient but are encouraged to encourage with 4 million kunas this year here and programmes in this area. The development and education of preschool children of 5 million kuna is also encouraged. The ministry recognized that it was commendable that as many as 71 of the job as a member of the turquoise librarian was missing in schools, it also provided funds for the information literacy of teachers and professional associates without which no new education could be done, which is an important means to invest. Also especially commended for increased investment in mastering teachers and teachers. Something new, are the new items in this ministry, the programming items are first and foremost the first time, and we've all advocated the development primarily of the pedagogical standard, the adoption of the pedagogical standard, because this is also the basis for the production and catalogue of knowledge and for the possibility of external knowledge values that we all stand for, and we've all stood up for a few, here at the last session, and for that test center of ours. So this is the first time we've gone to pedagogical standards. We also encourage one-way work of schools, we know that unfortunately in Croatia there are schools that work and three shifts. Three million kunas will make a small but significant step to launch such a program. What to say, and there's a fellow Mršić I have to mention that capital building, I didn't mean it. The truth that there are no new capital projects in this budget but there are decentralised funds that also contain funds for capital investment and investment. So if you include it in your own county incomes and your own county funds then you can do a lot. I found it difficult to listen to what my colleague Mršić said in Koprivnica-Kryzevci County that he could not build a single sports hall or a single school. I come from Sisak-Moslavina County, which suffered from a war whose economy is really on its knees but there is not a single project, you can check the same capital here directly from the state budget, but from that part of the decentralised funds and own revenues of the county in 2004 this county built a sports hall at the primary school "Brothers Radić" in Martinska Vesa, built and built a regional school in Pesćenica, started a new hall in Croatia Dubica, and also builds a new crafts school and sports hall, namely preparing a project, in designing a project for the craft school and sports hall. So there's some kind of capital investment, sure we're not happy and we're looking for more, but in this situation it's real and possible. And I'm gonna talk about something else because I think I have to, and that's sports. It is a significant increase in sport, it will probably say by my colleagues who are more concerned with this problem, the overall increase is 27%, but I am looking forward to an increase of 25% that is intended for school sports clubs, because in these clubs and our primary and secondary schools there are future top athletes. I also look forward to some new programs, that program, and I welcome the Open School programme, which is being advocated by Minister Primorac, and I see that this has entered the budget for this year, where it really encourages the organisation of sports activities in schools during summer and winter holidays so that it is really possible for children in smaller areas to have their leisure time organised in sport. And here in the end, I won't be longer because I'm going to say that really long-term lack of education is difficult to compensate for, but these new programmes and increased investment in education and science are a good sign that education and science are not neglected and that Croatia is still running.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25823	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25824	So I thank my colleague for reminding me of the decentralised funds, but from the decentralised funds, the Koprivnica-Krysjevac County has built two primary schools over the past two years. I was talking about that over 170 schools and sports halls being built from the state budget, either directly, or through C5 programs, no one is being built in Koprivnica-križevci County, and I am convinced that several are being built in Sisak-Moslavina County. Of course, we use decentralised funds for investment maintenance, but minimum standards are set, and we can't show up in the ministry to increase our decentralised investment funds, you probably know there are some keys. We asked the Ministry of Education to increase it for us and of course they wouldn't ask the state for money. We don't normally ask the state for money, we're just asking for more money to stay in Koprivnica because we're making it more than it's coming back to us. Therefore, we would build all schools as we have built ourselves in the past, or with self-inheritance, from income tax to the people of Koprivnica, only if the state did not take so much. And unfortunately, we're not in the C5 program, and unfortunately, we're not in the budget. It is a tragedy of Koprivnica-Kryzevci County and no schools and no sports hall is built from the state budget and this year when some 60 million kunas were released from funds for investments in de-natalised funds, the key was to grant everyone equally according to minimum criteria, and not according to those who have completed investment projects and building permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25825	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mrs Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25826	Well, here's what I have to say to my esteemed colleague, Mr. Lobster. I didn't realize that you didn't build any schools, but I just wanted to tell you that my schools aren't in the state budget either, to remind you. You are fortunate, colleague Mršić, that your schools do not need to be restored from the C5 program. It's a program to rebuild schools in a war-torn area. You've been so lucky, I'd have been so much more pleased if I'd been so lucky if I didn't have to rebuild school from that program. And there's one more thing I wanted to tell you, I was telling you about it and I wanted to tell you that we can do to the common forces, I mean the local administration and the state a lot more. We can't expect everything to really fall, and what you're saying is that there's not one of my schools, there's not one of your schools, but there's not one new program. So this government didn't put in any programs, and look at the budget why. Because since 2000, it has had to complete a mass of started programmes that were really not realistically planned, right in the capital building of schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25827	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25828	Thank you very much. It's an incorrect assumption that the former government didn't invest in vocational schools. It is true that she followed 131 vocational schools for the equipment of the workshop and for the cost of teaching scientists. And it is also true that the current government to encourage the work of vocational schools and to edit master schools by 10.11. did not spend much on millions and 300 thousand kunas. Your colleagues have this on page 99 of the budget. So out of millions and 300 thousand kunas and kunas, it wasn't spent on vocational schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25829	Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25830	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Discussing the state budget, we all point out that it is the most important document that can be found at the debate in the Croatian Parliament, precisely because only in the budget and nowhere else see the programme priorities and activities that the government will take in the coming year, but also based on projections and priorities and activities in the three-year period. When we listened here a year ago to the diameter of the government and its programs were declared to be targets and what was wanted to be done. However, these fine words and plans at the time of adoption of the state budget should be justified and subject to concrete figures, as precisely figures from the budget rather than beautiful words clearly point to priorities and the government's work programme. However, whether this budget and this draft budget are in line with the declarations made. I'm afraid at least some of the education and science matters that it's not. In fact, I don't think anyone smart in Croatia today is going to question the fact that the poor qualification structure of the population, and I think we all agree that the strategic task of all of us is to repair this poor qualification structure and thus train people, our fellow citizens for complex processes of production of new values based on companies based on knowledge and the creation of a knowledge society. The position is also declared by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the declaration, however, the Government has an obligation to make concrete decisions and to test its own credibility right on the budget. Accordingly, since Croatia is lagging behind in financing education and science, additional financial efforts were needed to start reaching members of the European Union. It is generally known that the growth of the budget of at least 10% a year may be, but only in 2010 can it only lead us to the degree of separation that European countries had in 2002. One dyspression. Slovenia increased the science budget by 24% when it was budgeting for 2004 and for technology by as much as 67%. As in Croatia in 2004 we increased the budget for education and science by 7%. This year, it is an increase of 4.3% and it is terrible, because it is actually a reduction in the trend of increasing investment in resources for science and education, which not only does not guarantee the development and investment and arrival of Europe, but rather deepens the gap between us and them. It was interesting to listen to today's opening presentation of the diameter and the minister of finance which in no single word, but did not mention science and education in any single word. Some will say, what those in science and education are rebelling, so they got an increase of 4.2%. This increase is no step at all, and at least the strategic shift that we need, which is not even my invention, has also been established by scientists from country and abroad at a convention that is currently under way these days. If we know that an increase in the total budget is 5%. Science and education are increasing by 4.3%. There should not be some super mathematician to determine that the share of investment in science and education is reduced in this budget compared to last year's. Even if we know that 10 resolutions, 10 ministries in this government have larger increases in funding, means more than 4.3% of the increase in science and education, it is not difficult to conclude that despite the announcements and declarations of education and science, they have gone very badly in this proposal for a state budget. Unfortunately, the 2006 and 2007 project also lacks hope for better and fairer or more accurate future for Croatia's necessary treatment of science and education, as it envisions minimal growth of only 2% annually. This is a bad and completely wrong policy, because it has already been pointed out here several times only to increase and allocate for science and education at 10% per year, perhaps it can reduce the gap between Croatia and Europe and be a guarantee of development. Some items will be discussed, I will personally say more in the debate on amendments and I will submit some amendments. Now, just the fact that it's inadmissible for teachers and teachers to stay at exactly the same level as last year, because without investing in teachers there is no different and better school. It is also devastating for Croatia that the funds for the salaries of primary school teachers and high school teachers remain almost the same, as the increase in the total weight of funds is only about 1%, i.e. 2 in secondary school. This all means that there will be no increase in the salaries of teachers and teachers and that the salaries of those groups of highly educated citizens and citizens of our country who are already lagging behind other public service salaries by around 15% will continue to lag behind. I am personally sure that we are not as rich as the Republic of Croatia and that the Republic of Croatia is not such a developed country, that it is allowed to afford the luxury of further decaying social status of educators. Because as Socrates said centuries ago, "If there will be no training in Athens, the Tenjans will walk barefoot," but if there will be no teacher in Athens either." With regard to the higher education of science and technology, the nominal increase in the budget if the reader of this proposal had more to do with the structure did not guarantee that the necessary and urgent reform would indeed be done. But it is quite certain that the reforms will not be without insurance and a constant increase in the Refom funds. In this proposal, I'm afraid that's not the case. In addition, the 2005 draft budget reduces resources for the National Foundation for Science highly educated and technological development, and according to the proposal of this current Government of Ivo Sanader, the funding for programmes and research projects is also reduced. Such a policy is the reduction of the resources for science for a country that tends to be based on knowledge and which sees human potential one of the basic capital completely inappropriate and fatal. And that's why this budget is not and can't be developed for this country. The second topic I want to talk about is young people, probably with education one of the topics most pronounced, and so little is concrete. Namely, the planned means of active policy towards young people who are in fact the opening of a national programme of action for young people that I consider important for a hundred times here to point out unanimously adopted in the Croatian Parliament with a strong push and appeal for all, including today's resorient minister who was then a representative, that it is an excellent programme that should be accompanied by adequate support from the budget. Therefore, these funds for young people not only follow the funding dynamics established by the national programme, but have been reduced by almost 45% in 2005. And not only were the funds for active policy towards young people reduced, but the three items that were important in this sense so far were the monitoring and promotion of youth policy, the promotion of social participation of young people and the support for the programme aimed at young people with their name and very transparently suggested that these were affirmative projects and their content, we talked about yesterday, and the items were abolished in this budget for 2005 and they are subscribed to a single item which will then give discretionary rights to the minister to decide on programmes which is a complete return to a completely non-democratic decision-making process and which is quite contrary to the uniformly established national policy. But either way, here is clearly more important than what is said, than what is done and how is done. Because of all this and what my colleagues have said earlier, because of the policy defined in this budget so that it completely ignores science, technology and education and because this budget, but also projections for 2006 and 2007 because of the neglect of these important development hubs, not only will it not start Croatia, but it has kept and the lagging behind Europe actually collapses I will not be able to vote for this draft budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25831	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25832	Mr. President, it is quite incorrect that Mr. Prime Minister did not mention education, this morning in his presentation I quote "in the five objectives of the Government under point 3 in the context of the fight for higher employment, special education has been highlighted as very important" and so it is said today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25833	And the esteemed representative, Maria Byte, is correcting an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25834	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected colleague said that the programme, in the government's work programme, is just nice words that have no coverage in the budget, and unbelief regarding science and education. That's incorrect. Because the Ministry of Science and Education and Education has nominally the largest increase of the 360 million kuna. Then, to finance decentralised functions in primary and secondary schools for 2005, 103 million kuna were provided for primary schools for more than last year and 50 million kuna for secondary schools more than last year. There are also significant capital investments at Croatian universities, where 490 million kuna credit assets that are. There would also be a significant number of 40 capital projects to be completed, and there would have been much more if it hadn't been for 45 million kuna in 2004, based on a court decision paid to regress employees. And also 14 million kuna for 2001 employees of higher education based on jubilee awards.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25835	Thank you very much. One replica, respected representative Ivana Sučec-Trakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25836	Yeah, I can't resist not replicating my colleague on the subject of health care, I missed the answer to Mr. Mrsić. But in this case, I have to fix it. It's not the health care hanging in this budget that got a billion kuna more than it had last year and will perform all the functions it needs. And it would probably get a lot more if the miracles and six hospitals and projects in the hospitals from the hotel to the piloting in Koprivnica had not been done in the past, and then when you don't have the results of the pilot project, we have raised the fat money of the World Bank, so the loan and the taxpayers put it back on the charge, then it happens that you don't have the results of the pilot project, so you cover it with health care reform throughout Croatia, and then the minister signs contracts with the World Bank where he throws out Croatian consultants, so he introduces English consultants who, of course, don't get results, and when we say it's bad for Croatia, because the millions of dollars are quoted by Minister Hebrang spent, then look at miracles, on the web. The World Bank sites of the Koprivnica consultants are still undesirable and web. The World Bank website of the company... and Mr. Gomez by 2008 cannot work on similar projects related to the World Bank. So, in Koprivnica, something has been made that needs to separate the Pilot project and these 20 million that are said to be the money of Croatian health care for health reform in Croatia and the other thing is that this should be distinguished from investment in the county hospital. The county hospital and health reform need not have ties and the pilot project should have been done as God commands and contracts paid for by the taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25837	Thank you. Reply to the replica of the respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25838	Mr. President, Mrs. Sučec-Trakostanec obviously did not replicate to me because I have not said a single word at all about healthcare at all, but since I now have the right to reply to the replica, I will just say a health care proposal here is the first time in this Croatian Assembly in the 2005 budget that is completely abolishing the resources for the detox treatment of addicts, completely abolishing the means for treating and rehabilitating the treated alcoholics. The means of treatment with Metadon are completely abolished, the means to prevent alcoholism in young people are completely abolished, the means to promote healthy nutrition and movement, the means for prevention and early detection, treatment and rehabilitation of addicts are completely abolished. And you, Mr. President, I hope you'll give a warning to your colleague, Judge-Thrakostane, because in her replica, she's actually replicated my colleague Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25839	Replica is a specific institution in parliament and a response to the replica within that. Dear Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25840	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister! In my presentation, I would refer to the budget of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction in such a way as to first analyse the business of the Ministry itself and then refer to several large-scale state programmes, large-scale programmes implemented through the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. Why do I do that? The 2005 ministry's budget was planned with 702 million kuna and an 18% increase. However, when promoting the business of the Ministry of Space Planning, so on what only applies to the ministry itself, then the increase in the ministry's budget is only 3.5% or at a total of 473 million and, by my assessment, it is an example of a very thriftful availability of state resources used for the business of our ministries. In the course of this year, the Ministry of Environmental Protection should implement the programmes related to the accession and obligations that we have undertaken in this regard, so that the ministry will concentrate on the development of waste disposal projects for nine so-called waste dumps. black dots. I must point out that this is the first time the ministry has concentrated on such things during this and the following year because the ministry has not done such activities so far. The ministry will also help local self-government units develop environmental protection projects. Let us all remember that the construction inspection had very serious tasks this year, of course through the Ministry to prevent lawless construction and to highlight it here in front of the Croatian Parliament that already now and in the coming period, the ministry will have very serious problems with filling the posts in inspection services because with the receipts with which we reward for performing the activities of ministers few of the professional people want to do the job. He would also point out that in 2004 for the development of spatial plans, the ministry invested 2 million and 400 thousand kuna in the construction of spatial plans in 30 municipalities and 11 counties and for 2005 it already has 75 demands. Now let me look at the programs that are being implemented through this ministry through the Department of Housing, Construction and Communal Affairs. In the first place, it is certainly a program of housing the disabled of the Homeland War. It's our state program that our government and, of course, our country, with which our government and our country are solving the issue of taking care of the disabled Homeland War. To point out that by the end of this year, 446 apartments will be completed and moved in with 263 apartments already moving in and 183 apartments will be handed over by the end of the year. Through the APN programme, 138 apartments were purchased so that 654 apartments will be moved in by the end of the year. For next year, 7.1% more funds are planned or a total of 146 million are planned. Therefore, the ministry plans to continue the construction that has already started in eight of our units of local self-government at 297 apartments, plans also to build four family homes for disabled people, 100% people with disabilities, and also plans to naturally conclude contracts or conduct the negotiation process for the construction of project documentation and the construction of 80 more apartments. 80 apartments in Vukovar and 120 apartments in other locations. So, for 2005, the planned construction of 501 apartments. The second programme, it is the realisation of the programme of building a socially stimulating housing with which the government encourages the construction of family apartments for young families and those families that first reach apartment in life. The programme will address the following during the year 2000 to 31.12. 746 apartments have been moved in, so-called procedure is under way. the technical examination or premise procedure for 57 apartments and, of course, for the next 203 apartments to be completed during this and next month or a total of a thousand and 6 apartments in 2004. For 2005, the ministry planned to build a thousand 495 apartments and in this direction carried out all the necessary actions since the acquisition of land, construction permits, local permits, so all those procedures. For these purposes in 2005, it is proposed to provide 167 million kuna or at the level of 2004 and, of course, in 06 and 07, these funds grow with the planned, planned growth of the state budget. A few words about the Agency for Legal Traffic Real estate which this year has received significant funds that are 74% higher and, of course, through it will address the issue of caring for exiles if the returnee and the problem are removed from the agenda in the Republic of Croatia because only 19 million kuna are planned to solve the problem in the coming year. And in the end, just two, three words about the Environmental Protection Fund. It is a budget fund that is also linked to this ministry, which has its original income and through which major incentives are foreseen for local self-government units to arrange and build environmental protection facilities throughout Croatia. Therefore, assistance in their programmes, in their investment, in programming and everything that can be provided through the Fund's professional services. Mr. President, I think this is about one appropriate budget and appropriate programmes and I will definitely support in the vote this budget proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25841	Thank you very much. I'm appealing to the MPs if I can, given the number of times they don't use much time. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25842	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is today the proposal for a 2005 budget we heard a lot of compliments and objections and we heard that it was developed, social, excessive, insufficient, and even on several occasions that it was pre-election. This pre-election was likely the government's reluctance to carry out what was promised. Yesterday we heard that income and profit taxes should be smaller and more favourable, so the smaller budget, and in a few days, a number of amendments will show that even a double budget would not be enough. Listing on the proposed items, we all look for investments in the areas from which we come, we find some, some not as well as in personal budgets similar to municipal, city and county budgets. The proposed budget is larger than last year, it will be inevitably fairer because in recent years, the former government has discriminated against parents, defenders, the disabled of the Homeland War, the families of the dead defenders and the socially endangered people, which will correct this budget. Imposing figures in the new infrastructure project budget are primarily in HAC, HC Croatian water, investment in capital facilities of nearly 3 billion kuna, care for islands, support for shipbuilding, promotion of exports, investment in new technologies and knowledge, demographic recovery and increased pensions. There has been an increase in funding for areas of special state concern and large investments in the legal and legislative system are also foreseen. It is strange that he gave the most regrets in this budget exactly the former minister who did not respect the budget that his government had brought him, who assigned jobs to his own companies and companies to his wife without a building permit and without land. It should be noted that often the tender documentation was also done by his companies, and therefore I am not surprised by his call to forget the past and hit the future. I am surprised by his concern that he has provided his companies with jobs in a few years and that he remains a minister has secured his own business and his wife for several decades. So, behind the great indignation, they would say psychologists, there's always personal interests and behind the great noise of an unclean conscience. The objections of another former minister about insufficient investment in small businesses are incorrect as it is incorrect that the lending of small businesses is his authorial work. We know it's in Slovenia, etc. The entire system drew money from local and regional self-government needed to build infrastructure because it means more often to businesses quality and municipal infrastructure than loans. The example is here from the Municipality of St. Sunday, where we've been asking the businessmen to take the loans for two years. Only after 2.5 years was the last loan finally spent. The care of the economy and entrepreneurship can be seen in the new budget as the funds increased by 8.24% nominally as much as 59 million kuna compared to 2004. More planned funds in 2006 and 2007 are increasing almost 40% compared to 2004. Activities in small and medium-sized entrepreneurship are growing 24%, in the economy 3.5%, harmonisation of technical legislation with the European Union accounts for an increase of as much as 200% of state support and restructuring of 78%. The activity of the national consumer protection programme records an increase of 220% and the money for documentation and requalification of craftsmen, up to the qualification and retraining of craftsmen, has increased as much as 157%. I believe it will be fulfilled even though I say, there's a lot of skeptics, here's the former minister accusing the government, bringing in the financial police for bought harrass. When the former government nodded the financial police, many people commented because they wanted to protect their ministers and coalition partners. In my opinion, the financial police will improve tax collection which local administration and self-government will certainly welcome. The 2005 budget is enforceable, possible and correct, acceptable and politics often has no connection to its items. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25843	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25844	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I would like to correct the quote of a colleague who said that in this assembly the minister of the past government who did not respect the budget. Since we still haven't received the state audit results for last year's findings that such ministers were incorrect, i.e. to use a new expression for facts that are not true according to the dictionary of foreign words that we received from the government yesterday, a lapus occurred.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25845	Replica's esteemed representative, Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25846	Thank you very much. I guess I haven't understood Mr. Markovanovic in a while... I'm telling the facts they're writing in government reports that they're writing here in the budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is indisputable that the former government has granted the craftsmen, small entrepreneurs, through projects 5 billion kuna loans the authorship I have never asked for. But it's also true that in carrying out the budget up to 10. 11th of this year, no kuna has been allocated for local lending. Mr. Markovinoviću I spoke in 2004 craftsmen and small entrepreneurs did not get a single kuna credit it is simply a fact and I ask you to accept it is not a criticism, it is one justifiable criticism and we will probably agree that we would need a more efficient administration that would benefit more rationally from state money. I must again point out that, in addition to local lending, nothing has been obtained by beginners, no women, no centres, no incubators and no listings. Mr. Markovanovic you have in the materials of zero, you have potatoes. This report is like the Ministry of Agriculture, which I once said because only 20 million kunas and some million kunas have been spent on entrepreneurship. Well, that's true, so you can't possibly deny what it says here, what you have in front of you, what we read, I guess in the same way that you and I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25847	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Krunoslav Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25848	Thank you, Mr. Pecek. It's best to let you speak, so you deny yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25849	Thank you. Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25850	Mr President-in-Office of the Parliament, gentlemen of government representatives, colleagues and colleagues, I will begin my debate on the budget I will try to cut but by referring to the replicas and what Mr Markovanovic and Mr Pecek have said. The fact is that the budget says that most of the items relating to craftsmanship and small entrepreneurship are used with zero, but there is no way that this claim made by Mr. Pecek that craftsmen and small entrepreneurs did not take advantage of the kuna credit either. They used a lot of credit, they still corrosive credits, but it's about those credit lines that are under way, which they started and which, I have to admit, they kind of came to an end, because it's simply about a model that was useful at its time, gave results, but at this point he's no longer the most appropriate and no, he doesn't give those most desirable effects. But here, so it's about the budget and there's always a lot, a lot more desire than there are opportunities for those who need to secure the funds. Here, the budget, indicators and effects are based on positive macroeconomic indicators for 2004 and the projection of these indicators for 2005 and 2007 respectively, so that the budget is planned on the basis of the expected growth of the social gross product of 4.4%. Inflation rates 2 and a half percent and industrial production growth of 4.1%. The budget, regardless of all the criticisms that have been made, certainly contains both the development and social components. Well, that's what the basic or basic data that we're about to read shows. So the budget revenues of $86.4 billion are 5% higher than in the current year's budget, and tax revenues of €51.3 billion are almost 8% higher. I'm grateful, Mr. President, but this behind your back can really defocus. The expenditure is 91 billion kuna, and all that money is allocated to, as a result, raising living standards, means of regional development, for the economy, small entrepreneurship, science, judicial reform points to that. Well, pensions are guaranteed 24 billion or 1.2 billion more than this year. For wages, 800 million kuna is projected more. For Croatian defenders 130 million kuna. For maternity benefits 160 million kuna more, 5 billion and 100 million kuna are provided for subsidies and aid to businesses and 13 and a half billion and 500 million kuna are provided for infrastructure. From these figures, I think it is possible to conclude that both this development and the social programme are at stake. Significant funds are also provided to assist Croatian shipbuilding, i.e. for so-called working intensive technologies. For decentralised functions and to assist local self-government units 12.4% more than last year. I must admit that I am not very clear on what some of the municipalities or municipalities are, and some are not users of that part of the aid within the general state, but I hope that we will also manage it. They're in front of us, too... budget funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are proposals for the financial plans of Croatian roads and Croatian highways so we do not have all or concrete projects that will be financed from it, but I would like to stress there in some way in front of Karlovac County one priority, which is building a hub and access roads on the Zagreb-Rijeka highway, so node Novigrad. I started, and I'm going to end up with a few thoughts about the economy or craftsmanship and a little entrepreneurship. Therefore, the fact is that in this year, a number of items are relatively poorly achieved regarding craftsmanship and a little entrepreneurship, but therefore also the funds are still continuously placed. It should be known and kept in mind the following fact: that the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship only in the middle of this year promoted the National Programme for Encouragement of Entrepreneurship and how much information I have from the Ministry of Economy these programmes are under way, i.e. the implementation has taken place and is expected to be realised by the end of the year and all the resources in those positions will be realised. Here's a thank you very much, and we certainly need to support this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25851	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25852	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I believe that the proposal for a budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 with a draft budget projection for 2006 and the 7th is good because it is developed, social and reflects the ability of this government to stabilise state finances after the poor state it encountered a year ago. After a false deficit and unpaid bills by the ministries, it is truly encouraging that the government has succeeded in proposing a budget that will continue all road construction and infrastructure reconstruction projects. Pre-election promises on the return of maternity benefits, the repayment of debt to pensioners and the increase of Croatian defenders and members of their families are being fulfilled. The budget shows that the government supports macroeconomic stability. Although the 2004 budget was created under difficult conditions, the government managed to stabilise the economy so for the first time in the last ten years, exports grew faster than imports. In the first nine months, exports grew 16 and imports grew 7%. The indicator of the stabilisation of the economy is also the fact that the first time the number of unemployed fell below 300,000. Government efforts to support macroeconomic stability and a reduction of public debt are visible. Capital investment and infrastructure development in significant amounts continue. The government is taking care of growth earlier, the continuation of earlier projects that are visible from isolation. For Croatian highways 4 billion kuna, Croatian road 2 billion kuna, for Railways 2.9 billion kuna and for the development of the island 230 million kuna. The budget also took into account the increased support for small and medium-sized enterprises and the promotion of exports for which 428 million kuna is foreseen. Foreign investment in production is also encouraged. Although the number of unemployed fell below 300 thousand for the first time, it is still a high unemployment rate, and I think it is a good thing the government predicted 500 million kunas to encourage employment. The increase in investment in science by 350m kuna more than ever suggests the government's understanding of the increasing, increased investment needs in the area. Already this year, this government began to fulfill its pre-election promises to repay maternity benefits and three-year maternity leave. I believe that these are the first steps to be taken to stop the fall of birth, and I am convinced that the 2005 budget of 1.6 billion kuna for children's allowance and 1.2 billion kuna for maternity benefits will contribute to a better demographic picture of Croatia. Strengthening state authorities and administrations create preconditions for Croatia's faster entry into the European Union. I am therefore hoarding an increase of 38.9% of the funds for the Ministry of European Integration. Although there are limits in the adoption of this budget they are a reflection of the real situation in the Croatian economy, I therefore believe that this budget is a real basis for further strengthening Croatia and I fully support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25853	Honorable representative Danira Bilic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25854	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, let me look back on that part of the 2005 budget, the part of it that relates to sports. In that part, it is possible to notice several important things that should certainly be highlighted. First of all, the increase in funding in the position of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in the section relating to sport compared to last year's budget. It is 27.8% or a concrete increase from about 55.5 million to nearly 71 million kuna. The increase is significant. I absolutely submit and support it. I believe that such an increase comes first of all because of the great success of Croatian sport this year, when Croatian athletes won 5 excellent at the Olympic Games in Athens. And thus achieved the greatest success of Croatia's sport of our independence. So I think of every kuna that goes to sports and for sport justifiable and so to speak. Because what the situation in Croatian sports is now, each additional investment is almost certain to guarantee new even greater successes. The impression, however, is that the sport still gives and returns more to the state than the state invests in it. Therefore, the projection of the increase in budget expenditure for 2006 and 2007 is quite reasonable by 5.4 and 9.5%, respectively. The above-mentioned fact rejoices, but I believe it will create room for even greater investment in sports in the coming years. Because sport brings the Croatian state an image of a competitive, winning, and successful country. It is doubtless that Croatia can be very helpful in achieving our long-term goals. The highest value of sports is not in the sports successes of national selections of prominent athletes, the greatest value of sports is children and young people. Sport as a powerful and stimulating educational tool that meets very effectively the basic children's needs for the game directs the child and young man towards a quality and healthier life that Croatian citizens certainly want for themselves and their children. It is precisely the orientation of these two things, so children and young people, and the quality and satisfaction of a healthier life, that is to say, in part of the proposal for the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports relating to sport. There is a range of completely new and innovative items such as, encouraging sports in kindergartens and dominoes for which 1 million kuna is foreseen. Encourage gender equality in sport 300 thousand kuna. Encourage the development of sport on islands 150 thousand kuna, promoting sports at universities 800. Encourage sports at universities 200 thousand kuna, prevention of violence by sports in schools 1 million kuna. Sports programs during summer and winter holidays open school 2 million kunas. Sports programmes to prevent addiction one million kuna, training non-swimming in schools one million kuna. There's more, but I've only singled out some. I especially want to highlight two things, sport is an area of special interest for the state and state should, as I pointed out yesterday about the annual report of the Croatian Olympic Committee, encourage a serious continuous and systematic debate on sport. This is certainly the basis of sports development strategies in Croatia and a serious professional and scientific approach to Croatian sport. Why do I emphasize professional and scientific. The sport in Croatia in the last 15 years has been subject to the surgical action of improvisation, which in the long run cannot provide optimal conditions for further development and improvement of sports and athletes in our country. On this occasion, I criticised the fact that the Croatian Olympic Committee did not realize any kuna of the projected 350 thousand. In 2003 for an item called development research projects. In 2004, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports made a similar failure. but I am pleased to see that, after all, the Ministry of Conscious Misses predicted in 2005, 300 thousand kuna for the item of making sport development studies in the Republic of Croatia. I believe that development research projects should not be bypassed and they should become as priority as at the first congress of Croatian scientists from the country and abroad, it is concluded that science should become and be a priority area for a young country such as Croatia. Everything about science is even more about sports. In this regard, I welcome the decision of the parent board on family, youth and sport to organise a thematic debate on sports in the light of the preparation of a new proposal for the law on sport that was scheduled for the 24th month in Split. Unfortunately, it's been delayed because I hope it won't be held. Another item that deserves attention is the National Anti-doping Agency, for which action is foreseen in 2005 to single out one million kuna. Although Croatia's gambling sport has so far not been significantly affected by various doping affairs, the action of the National Anti-doping Agency is not only mandatory according to the decisions of the International Olympic Committee, but is primarily necessary for preventive reasons. The draft budget provides for significant increases in funding for the sport of disabled persons. As well as awards for athletes to achieve top sports results. In the end, it is especially necessary to highlight the fact that the proposal to increase the budget allocations for sport goes primarily on account of the promotion and development of amateur sports, children and youth, university sport and development research in sport. The proposed increases do not apply to Croatia's top sport where the item for the Croatian Olympic Committee remains the same for 2005 as this year's. Unfortunately, I'm not saying because I think top-notch sports should be dependent on the state. On the contrary, a top professional sport should eventually exist as much less dependent on the state. How the development of the economy is achieved is normally the real conditions for which I believe they are not yet acquired. It's also an intensification of the sport bill that's in the works. Predicting privatisation of professionalisation of top sports teams in Croatia. And the country needs to be more and more helpful in stimulating the sport of children and young people. The sport of disabled persons certainly build sports facilities as a fundamental prerequisite of sports dealing at all. These professional scientific and development projects that need to ensure optimal conditions for further development of sport and meeting what I mentioned at the outset. It means focusing on the educational and educational values of sports for children and young people, i.e. The state needs to create assumptions that every child in Croatia can play sports. It has a significant impact on the quality, satisfaction and of course a healthy lifestyle in Croatia. In any case, the European Union has recognised that need. So this year she declared her European year of education through sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25855	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25856	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Before I start talking about the 2005 budget, I'd like to congratulate the government on what she did this year. Knowing all the problems with the first budget and the rebalancing in seven months. The reasons for the adoption of such a calculated irebalance were persistently claimed to be 4.4%, at the end of the calculation, the deficit was over 6.3% thick. This today's budget proposal for 2005 certainly boosts the government's economic activity. We know that without a strong economy, there is no satisfactory investment in sports, which I will specifically look back on. When it comes to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, it should be said that it is the 2004 separation and what is proposed for 2005 is a total of more than 850 million kuna compared to 2003, which even without deeper analysis tells us that this 12, 13% will provide us with a range of new activities in science, education and sport. Analysing the draft budget for 2005 and projections for 2006 and 2007 we see how much this resorient ministry has a serious intention to improve the state of science education and sport. This ministry plans to reach 10 billion kuna in 2007 for these three years. It is precisely this data that publicly speaks about the government's determination to launch Croatia as it was the aim of the election campaign and thus makes Beautiful our much more competitive which is extremely important. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Personally, I want to look at the drawback for sport in this budget. Direct investment in sport from this budget has increased by 15.8 million kuna compared to the previous year. Normally, it's never enough. We need to add the planned amount of 10 million kuna to encourage sports at sports clubs in schools, which is why I am very happy. A programme of swimming activities for children and young non-swimmings has been launched, especially for non-swimming with developmental difficulties. I know that this funding will not be sufficient for the reason that 50% of primary schools do not carry out swimming training that is mandatory and therefore I think it was necessary to propose this item in the state budget. In particular, it would refer to the importance of funding from this budget to help develop an amateur sport that was almost before extinction. Why am I saying this? We cannot talk about professional sports from which I personally come if we exclude amateur sports, school sports and complete sports and recreation in any place. By introducing the award for the achieved results of amateur athletes and an untaxable part of the scholarship for prospective athletes, we will receive a transparent separation of professional from amateur sports, which will be resolved by the new Sport Act, which is about to be completed and will be in front of us soon at the Assembly benches. There is nothing new to say about the importance of sports in society, because sport is found in all segments of society. As a former athlete, I categorically claim that no budget so far has satisfied all athletes and sports workers. There's never been a lot of dust, because we've put up with it all in sports. Last year, just before the start of the Olympic Games, our athletes were asked to go to the Olympics because of unpaid obligations to participate alone. And that should have been provided by the previous government. Thanks to Mr. Prime Minister Sanader and Minister Shuker, all the claims he specifically thanked Mr. Matesha yesterday were resolved within 24 hours. In the end, I'm telling all of this to prove to those who honor me that this government doesn't take care of sports and athletes. And finally, with a sports greeting, I propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt this draft budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25857	Thank you. What's the sports greeting? Dear Representative Kajo Bucan [[Agreement: Let's run Croatia.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25858	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I want to look at the items of the budget related to the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare in a brief presentation. The stabilisation of the health system, as announced by Minister Hebrang, is one of the government's goals for the next two, three years. So, stabilization as much as possible, because according to the World Health Organization, the health system will never be completely stable like this. Why? Because the annual increase in health prices is about 10% and the gross social product is 3 to 5%. The proposal for a state budget for the Ministry of Health and Social Care this year is higher by a billion and 80 million kunas than it was last year, i.e. 5.2%. If we add that the State budget proposal for the Ministry of Health is 16.5% of the total amount of the budget and more than 8% of the separation from the gross social product, we will agree that the Government is responsible for proposing, trying to further stabilise the health care system and improve it. Total investments by the Ministry of Health for Reconstruction of Health institutions have been the largest since the existence of the Croatian state and amounting to 480 million kuna, which should also be added to 400 million kuna, which will be spent for the same purpose from the decentralised funds of the Ministry towards the counties. In particular, the item should be highlighted for so-called expensive medicines, which has been increased by 5 times in order for this protection segment to function neatly for all who need them and prominent budgeted funds for the purchase and installation of artificial snails and the implantation transplant programme, and in particular to highlight the item of 13 million kuna for the development of telemedicine on islands. It is also evident that 10 million kuna is provided for emergency interventions. Therefore, the funds that are very necessary in the health care system for all the sudden situations that occur during the year. It continues to focus on equipment over the age of 8 for which 50 million kuna is foreseen and I am also glad to see in this proposal of the state budget what is planned to spend 5.6 million kunas for co-financing and reconstruction of buildings, homes of health Jelsa, Vis and Ugljan Island. Also for the central medical institution of southern Croatia, the Split Clinical Hospital is planned 29 million kuna, and of which, for construction works, 16.5 million kuna, we deny those who objected to the 2004 budget proposal for a new maternity site, 3 and a half million kuna, adaptation and addition of the kitchen 13 million kuna and another 11 million kuna for the same equipment and another 1 and a half million kuna for the purchase of equipment. It should be noted that 10 million kunas are also provided for the Clinical Hospital for the construction of a new birthplace in Split from the Council of Europe's loan. Finally, I welcome the efforts of the Ministry of Border Contract, together with an annex to the doctor's contract and the means to add 10% to the doctor's responsibility for the total salary. I believe that this year, too, we will witness everything the Ministry of Health has planned, including the introduction of preventive health checks on all insurance companies above the age of 40 who have not reported to the selected doctor for the past three years, the continuation of system information, its financial stabilisation, the protection of the rights of the patient, and all at the expense of the reduction of the mortality curve, the extension of life span and the rise of all available health standards. Also on this day, a day of memory of Vukovar is a pleasure to inform both the public and the representatives of what Minister Hebrang said yesterday at the Health Committee of the Assembly that one of the largest new investments starting from 1 January 2005 will be loans to the Council of Europe number 3, General Hospital Vukovar, 100 million kuna. Because of this, and because of what I have heard from my colleagues in other sections, I join everyone who will support the adoption of the State budget and congratulate the Government on this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25859	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Marian Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25860	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The draft budget for 2005 with a projection of the 2006 and 2007 budget is the first budget by the government of Doctor Ivo Sanader. This is the first time a government has done adoption of the budget for next year and is projecting the budget for the next 3 years, which is to welcome. In this way, we can read economic and fiscal policy in the longer term, and it is also visible to the government's intention to reduce the deficit in the budget for the next 3 years below 3%, which will be one of the most important criteria for Croatia's entry into the European Union. The proposal and projection of the budget is based on positive macroeconomic indicators for 2004 based on expected growth of the gross social product at a rate of 4.4%, an inflation rate of 2.5% and an industrial production growth projection of 4.1% for 2005. Budget revenue is estimated at 886.4 billion kuna, which is an increase compared to the previous budget of 5%. This is certainly an ambitious government plan, but I have no doubt it will be achieved in view of the government's work so far and the results that this government has achieved within a year of its mandate. Despite the difficulties caused by the vast deficit inherited by the former government, and great responsibility. It speaks enough of the government's ability, that it is a guarantee that after the consolidation of state finances all guarantees of the day in the pre-election campaign will be achieved and that all the objectives of this government will be achieved in the coming period. This budget is both developmental and social, which is reflected in a significant increase in the separation for pensioners, maternity benefits, for the unemployed, for the child's allowance, for the exercise of the rights of Croatian defenders and their families. Because of all of the above, it is evident that the budget is social and no one can dispute it. As far as the development component of the budget is concerned, I will look back on investment in the area of building capital infrastructure facilities. First of all, the construction of the Dubrovnik-Split-Zagreb highway and the shares from Dupolj to Ploč, as well as the construction of access roads that will import the highway with that area in the right sense so that traffic can be organised in its fullness. The population gravitating the highway shares does not have the satisfaction of continuing to build because the highway is expected to bring prosperity and stronger development of these passive areas and thus stop the eviction of the population and encourage development. I particularly welcome the activities regarding the construction of the Komarna Peljesac Bridge and the provision of funds for its construction. It is a capital facility for southern Croatia whose construction stops the need for our citizens to need a passport in order to reach the Dubrovnik coast and vice versa. Construction of the bridge will further stimulate the development of the island of Peljesac, the island of Korčula, Mljet and other Elapid islands which have lagging behind due to their traffic isolation. By building these capital facilities, the Government wants to make it clear that it wants a balanced development of all parts of Croatia because Croatia will be as developed and powerful as all its parts are developed and powerful. In addition to the highways, it is planned to be set aside for Croatian railways of 2 billion and 800 million kuna, which is extremely important in terms of tourism development and the greater arrival of tourists by this type of transport from Central and Western Europe to our Adriatic. I also consider increasing the funds for judicial reform to be significant precisely for the reasons that this increase in judicial separation is intended in the first row for the collection of land books. It is known that unsettled land books are a major obstacle to new investments, that this increase in budget expenditure will certainly return multiple times through larger investments. It is also worth the co-financing from the budget of the environmental protection programme. In the first row of waste dumps, as co-financed by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development as well as the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Investment in environmental protection is too important and it is good that the state is hearing about environmental and nature conservation. The allocations for science amounting to as much as 300 million kunas in 2004 relate to how important investment is for this government in this area and how much it cares about the progress of science and new technologies. Clearly, in the modern world we live in, there is no prosperity without investment in science. Finally, I want this budget to be a budget that will boost the prosperity and development of Croatia and my full support to the government and the 2005 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25861	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25862	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I did expect before the budget came that he would come and be mobilely dynamic, brave, and especially expected to be according to programs and projects. What I said earlier in one of the replicas, that it's difficult to evaluate in terms of this development element because I really can't see and can't, and even what I'm personally interested in when development projects and development programs are at stake, let's say for the county I come from. That's why I won't look back at those parts in my debate, in general, because I can really make mistakes saying something that isn't true, and it wouldn't be true because I don't have a sense of it. So I'm only going to express dilemmas, or perhaps questions on a few of the things I found in the budget, which would be good to resolve. First, I was surprised by the article of the budget for the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia which was increased from 21 million to 24 million, and only 10 days ago Mrs. Kosor said that this budget would be halved by... Now I don't understand how this same government where Mrs. Kosor is vice president is proposing an increase in that same budget, not its reduction. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This is therefore a dilemma because I expected, therefore, that reduction now already in the budget that next year should not be doing the rebalancing of that item in the budget. That could've been solved now. The second item, which also asks me for an explanation, is the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, where the reduction from 15 million to 10 million is, as one of the foundations that is extremely important for the development of civil society, which within a year has managed to bring together practically the entire civil society organisation and to finance truly and valuable programmes and projects. The third thing is one topic that we have often discussed here in the House, which is the fight against addiction, drugs, resales, addicts, consumers, criminals who appear in this area, but the funds that are forecasted for next year, if I have calculated correctly in the Office for Prevention is 5 and a half million kuna 3 million for programmes and projects. In Customs, I found 885 thousand, in a school of 871 thousand, and that's a total of 4 million 700 of what could be called prevention, counselling and treatment. However, in the area of health care there is really no item or perhaps under some name that I have not been able to find because at the position of detox units, methadone, prevention, treatment there is nothing, so I would ask it to identify whether something was intended or not in the health sector, to help me find it or maybe the drug addiction problem was resolved to that degree that this more in the healthcare sector should not be. My fourth concern is in the position of balancing decentralised functions for local and regional self-government where an increase of 12.4% is foreseen in this year, with what we have established new obligations for municipalities or cities for firefighting, the protection of patients' rights, urban plans since last year, the Law on the Communist Economy of this year, the Law on Rescue from this year and the hospital owned by counties, so general hospitals from the budget are left out the item for next year of debt recovery, and in this year it was about 530 million debt recovery because I do not believe that according to the health funding model and next year the general hospital will not have debts. Current transfers, i.e. ongoing aid within the state counties on average were reduced by 25% and even when we add the expected commitments of counties as the owner of general hospitals I don't know if it's the decentralisation of money in this budget so contained and that it doesn't get me wrong I said I don't know, when I get the answers maybe then I'll be far more directed. The mass of children's allowances is increasing by 1.2%, from which it is concluded that, in addition to perhaps the increase in birth rate next year, there will be no increase in the amounts themselves or the expansion of the circle of potential users. And now we come up with the stock stocks that are in the budget plan with 4 million 830 thousand kuna, and the stock reserve directorship has proposed an annual plan for the following year, according to which 149 million, 403 kuna, should be allocated from the state budget for the stock reserves, from which 142 million and some change would be spent for the renovation or for the strategic stock. This disproportion is more than 100 million, so there will probably be rebalancing there. The Fund for Rehabilitation and Employment of Disabilities in this year was planned 21 million, spent 0, in the next year 20, and yesterday we had a agenda point where the government's opinion was seen that before it worked, the law and regulations needed to be amended to make it work. So, I appeal to the competent ministry to change this law urgently because they wrote and passed sublegal regulations because it really is an important item for the execution of these 20 million. Entrepreneurial zones as a budget category in this next year are not and what is particularly interesting for development and employment is reduced by around 115, 120 million kuna. Or it's a different program that you can't see again in the budget. Finally, I come to the County of Međimurska from which I come from, which is represented in the total budget with 25 million kuna, counting this aid within the state, so transfers to the county and the only new project that is in the state budget is the education or construction of Kotoriba school while the small Saturday school, the economic school, the continuation of the old projects from the Regional Development Fund, is reduced by about a million kuna. And in health care is the item of a hospital with 2 million 750 which is in line with the agreement that exists on the subject. Now that we consider it except for the education and health care of other money for the Međimurjes next year, there will obviously not be. And yet I repeat that there are programs that might even be corrected. And finally, in the state budget when I've listed all items and all positions, 77 million kunas, road and water and records will be spent for the means of transport in order to protect and rescue the normal state administration with 25 almost and I understand that, so the Ministry of the Sea, tourism with 13 million, and the Office for General Affairs of the Government with as much as 3 million 760 for the transport of vehicles. And furniture, office furniture 221 million and there are recorders if I don't cheat on the Department of Justice with 29 million, Ministry of Interior 25, Tax Administration 20 and Ministry of Finance with 14. With these items of office furniture for several years I've been wondering what's going on with this furniture in this country, as if someone eats it somewhere every year over 200 220, 250 million we spend on buying new furniture so it might be a good idea to call a competition once to sell the old man out of use through a competition to see what condition he's in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25863	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25864	Thank you very much, Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will not look at the budget in general because of its characteristics, because much has already been said about it, and I think it would be just an excessive repetition. I'd like to use a few sentences to refer to a part of the budget relating to sport, although something has already been said in that, but I think I'm going to add something new. Although 15 million more is foreseen for the whole sport head than for this year, we cannot be satisfied if we take the fact that a total of 97 million kunas were spent in sport in 10 months this year, 22 million more than the plan given the Olympic Games that took place this year. If I say that this year for sport, if I say that this year, 70 million kuna is planned for sport, it turns out to be 27 million less than it was spent this year in 10 months. We can see that there's an increase in sports in school clubs, I'd say according to the number of activities listed in this material, I'm guessing it's a copying error, on page 174, because it's written in sports and I think it should be written in school, so it's an incentive of sport in school clubs. Encouragement, as well as encouraging the subject of the sport of disabled persons or the Croatian Sports Federation of people with disabilities. I am pleased that, for this year's budget, I have submitted to these items amendments which were not accepted at the time, but the need for these activities to be better monitored financially, even with a year's delay. However, I must express my disappointment and concern over the fact that the largest item that is also most important because it refers to the largest number of athletes from the alliance, which is to encourage public needs in sport, or the Croatian Olympic Committee, has been the same at the level of 30 million kuna for years, which has proved insufficient this year and has been additionally funded with around 25 million kuna, because although there was a special item in the budget for the Olympic Games in Athens of 20 million that was not enough. If we remember that the budget has doubled in recent years, and this item is constantly the same as it turns out that it has effectively halved against the total budget mass, and there is a clear increase in costs we saw yesterday in the debate on the Croatian Olympic Committee Report and I must say that we will have a hard time maintaining the level of quality of Croatian athletes' results in the world with these funds at the end, and Mr Mateša mentioned yesterday that this amount at the level of budgetary error. It is also one of the smallest, if not the smallest within the European countries and including transition countries, so it is really, really insufficient. That is why I will also submit an amendment to this item this year, so it may enter the 2006 budget if not right now. At the same time, I am pleased to include some new programs that my colleague Bilic mentioned in the sports items, as well as the programme to encourage the development of sports on the islands. But when we look at the amount of 150 thousand kuna for that, if it's not a random error in dropping a zero in copying, I'm afraid it'll just remain a nice idea on paper, so I'll also submit an amendment for this item. I'd like to know if it's possible for someone to answer me, for example, what an 850,000 kuna item would mean for me. intellectual and personal services in activities of 768031 non-swimming training in schools. I don't know what these intellectual services are that cost so much for this purpose. I am pleased to continue with the ideas about the development of sports in the Republic of Croatia and the development of standards for the construction of sports facilities, I only hope that realisation will not be equal to zero this year. Construction is also foreseen, the creation of a program of physical health culture for sports departments of 300,000 kuna, one of which again includes the famous intellectual and personal services of 200 thousand kuna. I don't get it. I also want to look back at the construction of sports school facilities. For the construction of sports halls within primary schools, only a million and 100 000 are foreseen, which is only 10% compared to this year, and for the construction of sports halls of secondary schools, the funds with 15 and a half million remained at the level this year. If we add to this the amounts covered by the common items of the construction of the sports hall and the school building, it is evident that 30 million and 56% of this year's amount are projected together for primary and secondary schools. I don't think that the planned investment in capital facilities in education can be satisfied if we know the importance of physical education in maintaining health and forming the personality of children and young people. Finally, one question for someone from the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship if it is there, I'd be happy to hear the answer. Namely, for the decommissioning activity of Koksara Bakar, page 87 560006 for this year, 8.4 million of which were realised in the first 10 months only 2.7 million and 32% respectively. For 2005, 5 million, or around 60% of this year's amounts, are forecasted. If we know that last year's amount was far too small for this purpose, I don't know how it's going to go this year and what it's going to do with those funds. However, I would be interested to know what will happen to the realisation of the remaining planned funds for this year, or they are actually put into the plan for next year in a reduced amount. For these reasons, I feel that the budget is not sufficiently developed and I will not be able to support such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25865	Thank you. Honorable representative Antun Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25866	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected gentlemen from the Croatian Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Prime Minister Sanader indicated in his opening statement that it was a development and social programme. Finance Minister Shuker has tried to prove that the words of Sanader's diameter are correct, so I cannot accept concrete indicators where, for example, a society that participates in the total amount of the budget with 45.9% or more exact 40.9 billion kuna, but nobody would really be happier than me if it were, not because of the HDZ, not because of the SDP, but because of the citizens of Croatia. However, I believe that we will meet with harsh reality very soon, right after the local elections. This is what I would like to join with the views of my club and colleagues from my club who have indicated that this budget has been drawn in numerous promises and pre-election before the presidential and especially local elections. I would not talk about certain specific items and about some specific topics because it is already said, but I want to look back at regional programmes, actually on programmes related to the Istrian County, because after the bauk regionalism has finally stopped circulating Croatia, and it is evidence that all of us MPs from any political option are coming to this Croatian Parliament, we are talking about local programmes, about our counties and what's wrong with me, because we have to be for the Croatian community, but we also have to take care of the development of our environment and I specifically regarding the Istrian County. And I have to express my dissatisfaction with the direct transfers from the capital investment budget in the Istrian County, because the amount of only 30 million kuna is not included in this extra-financial fund, and if it is known that, based on three income, profit and VAT taxes, the Istrian County is participating with over a billion and a half in the state budget, then I can't be satisfied with these... funds for the Istrian County. In particular, I cannot be satisfied with this because Prime Minister Sanader is what is good for me, often present at the Istrian County premises in the last time and gives support to all development projects of the Istrian County, the Istrian mayor is also expressing himself positively. But I'm afraid that's all that remains at the level of verbal promises because these verbal promises, as we can see, are not materialized in the 2005 State Budget proposal. However, I don't want to be petty, I don't want to be politically related to some programmes, and I don't want to talk about whether a sports hall or a school is scheduled for 100,000 kunas more or less, but I want to be very responsible here, very seriously, because it's a real state problem, the Croatian State warns the Assembly of three key projects of the Istrian County that haven't found a place in this proposal to budget for 2005, and this is the first and most significant and critical and what will first hit us all together on the head, a project to resuscitate the Pula harbor. The harbor was built by the Austro-Hungarian monarchy from 1910 to 1914. He was the largest investment operation in the Mediterranean at the time, never completed, and today he is in a ruinous state, I warn of the dramatic state of the harbor. The former state has never been involved in this problem, neither is the Republic of Croatia, and the sooner we realize what kind of big procedure it is, the better it is for us, the more I want to talk about it in particular, because unless we do anything about it, to start with its recovery today, and not tomorrow, because tomorrow it can be a matter of the unfavourable tidal wave that happened 20 years ago in the area of Korčula and the southern Adriatic half of the city of Pula, a lower area with significant cultural and historical and industrial projects will be under water. A favourable fact is that this can be done phasely, an investment totaling 11m euros. And I will submit an amendment to that facility most specifically. I think you should find the strength to have the state participate with 50% of the funds, the Istrian County with 25% and the city of Pula with 25%. And I will submit the most concrete amendment, because I must warn of the dramatic... Another key object is the waste water purifier in the town of Pazin, which is not only the town of Pazin, but the Istrian County and has a significant impact on the health of people in the Istrian County, as Pazin is located in an extremely specific water protection area and has negative repercusions to the health of the wider Istrian county. In 93, initial funds were provided, in 2003 I apologize to the initial resources in the state budget. The city of Pazin can't secure those funds. The model proposed by the Croatian Waters loan to the town of Pazin is unacceptable and it will be my second amendment to submit in terms of the donation to the town of Pazin to complete this key infrastructure facility. And the third project is a Pula hospital, weighing over 220 million kuna. A contract was signed with the former coalition government. This government has taken over this project for saying hello, and I'm glad. However, it is not possible to materialise in the state budget proposal, and this will be my third appointment. And at the end here I often had the opportunity to hear from Minister Shuker, especially a colleague from the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives that the former government spent funds outside the budget. I am afraid that this proposal has allowed some of the funds in certain paragraphs to decide on the deployment of these funds, for example 405 million shipbuilding subsidies or, for example, 7.9 million support for rural tourism development and can be justified or unjustly speculated on how much of this would be a possible allocation. And something that particularly integrated me in the context of the state budget proposal is explicitly listed part of the funds for the work of political parties provided in the state budget is 0,056. And they are deployed to political parties that have at least one representative in the Croatian Parliament. For a particular political party, they belong to a relatively large number of MPs. And we've been witnessing what's happened lately, giving these funds, not only to political parties, but to the so-called so-called. Let's tell the independent individuals, and I think that should clarify what this is really about, and that's some of the reasons why I'm not going to be able to support this state budget proposal for 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25867	Thank you. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25868	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, several general estimates of the budget, i.e. I would like to express my impression that I was given by reading the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005. It seems to me that this is the government's budget which doesn't really know what it wants, which has no clear strategy for the future development of the Republic of Croatia, has no defined objectives and has no priorities. With this budget, the government does not solve anything and does not move anything. There are no major projects to give a new swing to the economy. If the economy doesn't move more strongly, then we can't expect a significant drop in unemployment, we can't expect an improvement in citizens' standards and social giving becomes questionable. I'm afraid the revenue side of the budget is overrated and high and its realization is questionable. Here's an example to the claim that income planning is quite unrealistic. Budgetary reasoning says for 2005 we expect nominal trade growth to be little more than 7.9%. The main impact on this movement would have a rise in net wages, i.e. an increase in available income, and an increase in employment. This is said in the budget's explanation. And yesterday, there was a debate here in the House on the draft law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act, and several speakers warned that the proposed amendments to the Law would not significantly affect the increase in income. An increase in the untaxable income from 1500 kuna to 1600 kuna for an average salary of about 3 or 4000 kuna actually means an increase in salary for about 10 kuna. So then it's really a questionable statement from the budget's explanation that it says. It should point out that personal consumption will be exclusively related to the increase of the non-taxable share of income according to new amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act. Furthermore, the inflation rate is projected to be 2.6% and it is said that the inflation rate could primarily rise in the context of changes in oil and fuel prices, and crude oil in world markets, which could create one-time pressure on price increases. I'm afraid precisely for these reasons, but also because of the rise in electricity prices inflation could be greater than the one the government is planning. Furthermore, the mass of wages in state administration authorities remains at the level as in 2004, so there is no increase in wages. If all of these are considered, then it is really brave to plan the growth of trade on these very indicators that I have just said, the growth of trade to a little bit by even 7.9%. As for the expenditure side of the budget, I think it is primarily in the function of fulfilling the government's pre-election promises. Everyone gets something, but no one gets enough, that is, expenditure gives everyone a chance to breathe on straws. Let me take a look at some items of the budget. In the light of the budget, according to the Government's fire protection programmes, it is said that the application of Article 58 is based on the application of Article 58 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Fire Department Act reduces the participation of the state budget for the regular activity of employees in public fire departments, which allows guidance of funds for technical equipment and maintenance of fire departments. By amending the Law, the financing of firefighting is transferred to local administration and self-government units. Yesterday we discussed a proposal for a Tax Tax on Income and Profit Tax. And in the debates, several colleagues in particular Mršić showed very vividly and pointed out that this change in the tax system would negatively affect the budgets of the local administration and self-government unit. And they are now being transferred to the obligation to finance civil protection and public fire departments. Now the question is, will the units of the local administration and self-government be able to implement and implement this obligation, or might we find ourselves in a position to have fire protection equipment, and we won't have enough people to work with that equipment? Furthermore, what about voluntary fire departments? Where there is no meaning in cities and municipalities where there are no public fire departments, voluntary fire companies are the ones who have to react resiliently, so they actually act as public fire departments, which means that their work must also be partly based on professionalism. It is at the level of Croatia another 300 people or to be precise 230 people to the end. I municipalities and cities should be evened out, regardless of whether they are public fire departments or voluntary fire companies. Because I repeat, we're going to get into a situation where we're going to have expensive equipment, but there won't be anyone to work with, because we won't have enough people. Last week we discussed the Protection and Rescue Act, and we all agreed that the protection and rescue system is very important for the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore surprising that Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service did not find its place in the paragraphs of the Ministry of the Interior as much as an agreement was reached between the Ministry of the Interior and the Mountain Rescue Service on long-term co-operation in the implementation of the programme of promotion of security outside cities and public roads. An agreement has been reached to build the programme's mountain rescue service and the MUP will finance the implementation of the programme. The item was not planned in 2006 or in 2007. The family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. We have an item on the implementation of measures of family and population policy. Five million and 100,000 kunas planned. I don't understand what these funds are planned to spend on, and most of them are current donations in money, as much as 4 million 210 thousand kuna. Who I don't know about. Then intellectual and personal services 330 thousand kuna. Is it possible that this is the re-furbishing of the fee, which was very picturesquely spoken yesterday by his colleague, Rožic? Then other services, there is another service item of 289 thousand kuna. What's meant by other services I don't know and the item isn't exactly meaningless. On the one hand, we are talking about measures of family and population policy and, on the other hand, the item of improving the quality of family life and the development of family services is deleted in 2005. There are no budgets and the 2005 budgets are being deleted and the funds that were planned for the alimony fund and we want to improve the most innovative policy. In what way? Or the minister really thinks that the right to a three-year maternity leave will in itself solve the problem of the birthright that is becoming more and more pronounced in Croatia. The Ministry of Health and Social Welfare in the 2005 Budget is again continuing the 2004 trend that all preventive programmes in the repression of all forms of addiction are being allocated few funds, thus the point of prevention of early detection, treatment and rehabilitation of addicts were reduced in 2005 compared to 2004. Then detox treatment of zero kuna addicts, treatment with methadone zero kuna. A new item of concern for alcohol, drugs and other intoxicating agents appears in the budget but the funding for this programme is not planned until 2006. What about 2005? On the agenda of this session we also have a report on the implementation of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia, which clearly shows how much the problem of addiction is present in our society and that solving this problem requires the full engagement of all segments of society. That's why I don't understand this government strategy, but that's why a new item called "our kindness is the beginning of every treatment". Well, I guess that goes without saying, and I don't understand why we're giving out 200 thousand kunas and we don't have the resources for any more important programs. In order to avoid only criticising, I will express my satisfaction that the increased resources for preserving and improving the reproductive health of young people, then to preserve and improve the reproductive health of women with a tendency to further increase funds in 2006, then increasing funds for the preservation of oral health, but the means for preventing and early detection of breast cancer are unfortunately continuing to decrease for 2005 only 125 thousand kuna. And in the end, one more sentence. I cannot accept that the funds for state monitoring of food and drinking water health testing are reduced to only 500 thousand kuna in 2005, with a million as scheduled in 2004. I don't think the monitoring program to be passed is going to be able to reduce the scope of the study. And because of what I said and what my colleagues said, I can't vote for the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25869	Thank you very much, dear colleague. It's time for a respected fellow Beatunach. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25870	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected members of the government! I'll try to be as short as possible, so I hope the shortest. And when it comes to the 2005 budget, I think the government is kind of playing on a safe card, the budget is real, it's objective. If we talk about both the social dimension and the development dimension of the budget, then, according to my assessment, it is absolutely satisfying but within the framework of the existing opportunities of the Croatian economy. Here, all of our presentations in some way tonight that have been there can be understood by those who are for the budget and those who are against the budget. I must say in advance that the arguments with which my colleagues from the opposition were saying tonight that in some way they had not convinced me that he had changed his mind and I am saying in advance that I absolutely support this budget. Changes in the tax system announced by the Government and new opportunities, new perspectives that are being opened before us and when it comes to the development of the economy and in general of Croatian society, I think that the government that has achieved great, enormous results on the external-political plan will also be exceeded by what is foreseen in this budget. It's my personal attitude and my prediction. I would certainly point out, and I would like to point out that the government has shown over the past year that the government is a partner, partner when it comes to employers and partner and social groups. Now, to defend that, I don't think it's necessary for us all to be able to make sure, and this budget that's ahead of us makes that argument. What is not stated in the explanation when it comes to the state budget and I am not saying that it is a small one, but I think it should have been pointed out anyway, and I am taking the opportunity to point out this is the insolvency of the Croatian economy. In fact, the media has announced these days that insolvency is decreasing. In other words, that the Croatian economy is more liquid every day, it is more solvent and that if we look at the 11th month of 2004 that we came to a position when it comes to insolvency from 1997 when the smallest number of companies in Croatia was blocked, it was with a blocked jury account and by the number of companies but also by the number of employees. I would also like to add that the report of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development confirmed the view and opinion of the Government that has been given here in the 2005 Budget that the macro-economic situation is good, that when it comes to countries in transition and those already members of the European Union that Croatia is ahead of structural reforms and that it is in some way a model country for the wider area. I would certainly take the opportunity to say something when it comes to economic development. Here, I am in possession of a booklet "National Entrepreneurship Encouragement Programme" issued by the Ministry of Economy, and I particularly liked those ideas that are mentioned here in that section that speaks of entrepreneurship zones, and I think that this is a new opportunity, because I come from the Ministry of Economy and I believe that regardless of the current legislation, the government should make decisions and I hope that they will soon make them in terms of entrepreneurial areas in terms of transfer of ownership that is now owned by Croatian forests to local self-government units, and that would be a new stopper, a new incentive and a new chance when it comes to Dalmatian Zagora and in some way to preserve or possibly improve the demographic image of that area. Let me say a few words when it comes to Croatian waters, i.e. the financial plan of Croatian waters. We see here that the 2005 budget envisions 602 000 kuna, 602 million kuna, but already in the 2006 budget. 856. I am saying this because I see a chance here to resolve the issue of local self-government units from the area from which I come, meaning Dalmatian Zagora and some coastal belt, to resolve the issue of the Croatian Bank's loan for reconstruction and development. The obligation is a unit of local self-government on these loans, i.e. units of local self-government, and mainly those destroyed by war, such as Croats and Vrlika, to come into a position that through the budget can be more actively involved in solving economic opportunities in their area. What this government has done and where it has made a strong step, I would mention the establishment of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. I believe that this is our obligation, that this is a new challenge that we need to address and, in particular, when it comes to Dalmatia, Dalmatia as a tourist region, and I believe that the government's efforts will be addressed in the next few years, the issue of environmental protection, waste disposal and recovery of existing landfills so that our tourist offer is at the level expected by foreign guests. I support this budget, I believe that it is well-conceived and that with this government, this budget, this government, this government, Croatia is moving forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25871	I'd like a nice fellow Beatin' Boy. It's up to you, dear colleague Bosnjakovic. He's not losing his right to speak on this subject. It's all right, dear colleague Fuček. Here you go, my colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25872	Dear Mr. Vice President, here at the beginning, I promised my colleague Maria I'd talk for three minutes, and I'll make sure that the introduction lasts at least a minute. In addition to the general characteristics of the budget discussed by both the Prime Minister and the Minister and fellow MPs, which means in its balanced section of development and development, and certainly takes care of the social welfare, health care and all that is financed from the budget, I will look briefly at a particular segment of development that was here and a little bit of opposition whether it is covered or not enough. Investment in development is an investment in the future, and the National Competitiveness Council has issued its recommendation, has diagnosed the education system and, in this sense, the Ministry of Education and Science has launched individual projects and shown the real strength to treat education for the competitiveness of Croatian society in a different way. So they got seats and new projects in this budget, they got seats, they got new activities, that's certainly not enough. The 2007 projection also plans to set aside about 10 billion which will absolutely cover and what is not possible this year but is realistic since previous governments and those who had prior priorities until the 90th year when education was not in this sense a Croatian priority and this previous one did not have so much hearing, so that it is still an unsatisfactory condition of separation from the gross social product in education. But here, these are the activities, I'll count them in the shortest part. So, in addition to the basic improvement of the functions of their resources and the maximum use and functionality of ministry resources, there is also a safe inclusion in the development of preschool education, a project of a network of schools and one-way work which is also the biggest problem of our education and for which there is certainly a lot of money to be allocated to building new schools in these areas, which will certainly be well accepted on the units of local self-government that have long encouraged this problem. The project of the revision of existing programmes in the secondary education system, the development of the model of curricula for secondary education, the project of the centre for external evaluation, which we spoke about in this Assembly when the draft law came to the debate, the project of the production of pedogical standards and legal practitioners, the project of the agency for secondary education, the development of a higher education system in order to implement the Bologna process through active new jobs in the system, the project of the National Insurance Agency, quality of higher education, etc., etc. I think that in the context of a different evaluation of education in Croatia's development system, these will certainly be significant projects that will be the basis for further development. I would like to support the budget with this short contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25873	Thank you, dear colleague Fuchek. It's my dear colleague Markov. Excuse me, my colleague has a replica. A colleague of Lugaric's replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25874	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues are not denying most of what you have said and agreeing with you, but when you have already mentioned recommendations from the National Competitiveness Council, the first one refers to the increase in adult participation in education, this draft budget completely abolishs the item for adult education and further improvement, and also the number of recommendations I do not know exactly 8 or 9 speaks about increased investment in scientific research activities programmes and this proposal provides for a reduction of funding for scientific research activities programmes, so that what you have said is only partly true and the part relating to the percentage in the gross social product for education, and the proportion of the budget is significantly below what the National Competitiveness Council recommended is even below that share achieved in the 2004 budget when the increase was 7%, is now only 4.5%, while it must be an increase of at least 10% and there if there are really more recommendations for competitiveness not to be respected and there is no respect for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25875	A reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague Fuček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25876	Mr. Vice President. The recommendations of the National Competitiveness Council are certainly welcome, as well as all those who see the basis for development in education, but all start from isolation, I said, the separation is not enough, but in this sense it is certainly one more quality shift in hand-handling of education, in a different approach to the overall problem, and it will certainly enable the support of those funds that will come before the access funds to be used also to the goal that the Ministry is already ready and has prepared certain projects. And surely that permanent education, involving adults in education must be covered, and that is simply a reform that we must face but we cannot always start reforms with each government but simply have to continuously upgrade the education system and change the awareness that it is important. That's what I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25877	Thank you, dear colleague Fuchek. It's my dear colleague Markov's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak on this subject. It's time for a respected colleague, Pavlic. I(please, colleague Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25878	Dear Mr. Vice President, here's to me being the one who's actually relied on this debate that's been led so far on education. As you know, so on behalf of Club Libre Mr. Radosh spoke about that being one of the main... As you know, therefore, on behalf of the Libra Club, Mr. Radosh was talking about that this is also one of the main reasons why we will not support this budget. So because we are dissatisfied with increasing the part of the budget that is related to education, science and education. I know that there has been an increase of 4.2%, which we think is absolutely insufficient, therefore, to reach the development of science and education in our not only neighbourhood, but in the one closer, because countries in our immediate neighbourhood separate much, much more resources than we do from not talking about Slovenia. We heard today how much she was, how much she stepped out of the budget for this year compared to us. What I would especially like to warn is the position of educators, teachers, teachers, professors who come to this budget in a truly invisible position. What's going on? It happens that an increase in wages is foreseen below the levels they had in previous years. For example, basic education is projected to increase from about 2.1%, to the secondary school somewhere 3.2%. These percentages are almost enough to monitor next year's inflation, so it predicts that it will be around 2%. There is no involved in the growth of gross social product. So they will have real wages falling, and the basic problem here in this House has been spoken of for years in the adoption of each of these budgets is that education workers are less paid even if they have the same expertise. So with employees working in other ministries, we don't talk about those who work in public enterprises. This is, in my opinion, a major problem that will come to terms next year, and I am afraid that there will be an outflow of human beings from the education system, and we can ask ourselves who will be the one who presented the projects in this budget in general. Such, just the implementation of this project, I think it will come into question very much because there will be no people who can carry out these same projects in quality, and I'm not saying that much of the year will probably be implemented in, and in strikes and unfortunately, the Government had no understanding of the interests and needs of educators. Just to point out that a more significant increase in the salaries of educational workers was still there in 2003 when the government adopted a regulation that went on to increase salaries of 3 and 5 and 7 and 9% in late 2002, so that there was still a slight growth of wages, so that it was precisely with the goal and the desire to equate the salaries of educational workers with employees, employees in other parts of the state service. We'll go to Libra with the amendment. I hope, then, that we will understand the seriousness of this particular problem and that it will give support to this amendment of ours. As for projects in our Međimurje County, therefore, we have always singled out that such projects were enough in Međimurje and there are so many of them now, but most of them are projects that started three or four years ago. It is the same with the primary school in Kotoriba, which this year began construction but we are not satisfied with the amount of 2 million kunas this year. The following year in the budget, i.e. In 2006, out of 5 million kuna, given the size of the project, worth more than 20 million kuna, the question is how will this project be implemented. What we would like to warn and support is that it has received more significant support in this budget, as well as a programme for the Roma. This is very important for our county because only with the help of the state only with the help of the funds... /The speaker has been excluded./... to solve the problem of schooling Roma in Međimurje. The local self-government has already made a great contribution, but the Roma nation is therefore a nationality that does not have its homeland. So there is no one to turn to, perhaps like Hungarians in Hungary or Czech Czech Republic or anything like that. They are therefore relying on the Croatian state and the Croatian state must help them more in this regard. So we welcome everything that's been done so far. We welcome what will be done in the coming years. We also think in that spirit that we could go on, we should go on to build new school facilities like this facility in Kotoriba. There are also facilities in Orehovica, Pribislavac and other places to therefore improve the working conditions and our children in these schools. Furthermore, I would like to say in a few words about the economy although I am therefore a layman in the economy itself, but I would like to point out something. This is therefore the need for the state to help some economically, therefore, segments that have not received almost any support from the budget, unlike some. So I'm thinking primarily of a textile, leather and wood industry that has been left to itself all these years, and they're mostly turned to exports. They therefore export more than 80% of their production so that they would not receive any support from the state so that they were left to themselves. So the only way they can fight on the market then is by reducing the price of this work so unfortunately in this activity we have workers who work really miserable, miserable, getting miserable salaries of 1500 or 600 or even less kuna for which we think we should change. By contrast, some other branches of the economy are getting a lot of support, so I'm primarily thinking about shipbuilding. It may be good to mention, therefore, that the shipbuilding largely participates in our exports, almost with a value of 1/3 of our total exports, and that at the same time it also receives subsidies of about half a billion kuna or 500 million kuna per year. In this budget, it's about 450 million kuna, but for next year, it's supposed to be more. So if we want to increase, increase exports. So we need to give support to other industries. It was here that Croatia already and now actually has too much, giving too much subsidies, capital aid and so on. It's really too big. It does not comply with the standards in the European Union. Some economists suggest a better way to be. I also agree that instead of having, we are thus helping these economic operators to cut taxes and contributions. In this way, we would evenly unload all economic operators regardless of their geographical location, regardless of the industry branch, and I think that all would work more easily. In this way, different abuses are possible either on a political or regional other line, I don't think that would be good. Just a few more words about the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. The following year envisions a reduction of funds, which would allow the Croatian Health Insurance Institute to manage. I would just like to warn you that this year's funds for the operation of this institution were not enough, therefore, for a continued hospital. So we can expect the deficits to also occur in the coming years. And what you should certainly do is real planning, i.e. the coordination of funds for the regular activity of the so-called ‘supervisory’. the consummation limit. With the real cost of working hospitals because, with the forced consumption prescribed by the Croatian Institute, you can neither do positive business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25879	Thank you, dear colleague. It's my dear colleague Kolar's turn. He's not losing his right to speak on this subject. It's time for my dear colleague, Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25880	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. It is strange but true that we have discussed the 2005 budget on an incomplete day after discussing the implementation of the budget for the first 6 months of the current year. So it is perfectly normal to combine more than usual future calculations with the present one. For the current budget, we are convinced that it is developed and social and implementation for the first 6 months has proved that it is neither developed nor social, but rather the result of the lack of visions of Croatia's leadership and direction. In the absence of convincing arguments, we are convinced that the budget is the result of the former government's mistakes. Indicators that speak about the poor direction of Croatia have been blamed by the former government and the reduction of unemployment and increase in industrial production in the first 6 months is solely due to the current government. DA is not so known by experts but also Croatian citizens who, according to a public opinion survey, even 60% think that Croatia is not guided in the right direction. It will be difficult to change the opinion by postering Croatia. The budget for next year is not conditioned by the mistakes of the former government, and according to the assessment of all the social partners has not been developed. It is increasingly heard that it is pre-election for presidential elections but also for local elections. They made assumptions about the point we'll find out relatively quickly when we discuss budget rebalancing. Unfortunately, it will be the beginning of the election both for the president of the state and for the local elections. Assuming he stays the way he is for bringing us here. Social partners say status quo. So there is no movement of Croatia in the following year. The reconstruction of the government's rolling stock will cost 3 million 760 thousand kuna, which is 752% more than this year. Another 4,825 million kuna will be spent for the same purpose over the next two years. On air transport, the state authorities will spend with the next year 24,721 million kuna, which is 143% higher than this year. Over the next two years, another 53 million kuna will be spent for the same purpose. And these numbers don't need to be commented because they speak for themselves enough. It would be interesting to hear a comment from the previously occupied municipalities of Dragalići, Stara Gradiška, who received state aid years ago but will not receive it in the future. Current support within the general state was not large but was. Unfortunately, there won't be that in the future either. The economy has not returned to the freed areas, the unemployment rate is the highest in Croatia. The original revenues of these municipalities are weak and these municipalities will meet the basic needs of their citizens are completely unknown. The County of Brod Posavina will not be able to help them, although it is planned to receive 3 million more than this year, which is still two million less than it was last year. Because of the tightness of aid from the state budget, many projects had to be suspended and it is obvious that they would have to be suspended in the future, as neither in 2007 will they reach a widespread ongoing aid from 2003. Given that the Regional Development Fund has been established with the aim of equating the development of the region, it is interesting to see what it brings us. Nothing that would justify the purpose of his establishment. For my region in this year, it is planned to invest 33,210 million kuna, and with the day 10.11. 9 million 533 thousand kuna was invested. If the exception of the Osijek Viritarian County is the realisation of the planned funds is moving around 16%, so little planned and even less implemented. For the next year, the planned funds are reduced so that this fund should be paid a visit to €24.936 million. Which is 9 million less than the planned funding for this year. If the dynamics of execution are like this year then there's only one word, and that's misery and misery. Since yesterday because of the ineffectiveness of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, we were accused of politics because the minister is a presidential candidate, we will look at what will happen next year in the ministry. For that, the ministry plans 10.4% more Wednesdays than plans for this year. It sounds nice, but it doesn't mean anything because the open-ended funds for this year at 10.11. It's only 83% invested. Which suggests that even the means of insurance can't be invested. Thus, only 78% of the planned funds were invested to support the programme for prisoners and missing persons, to exhume victims from the Homeland War 44%. To hire Croatian defenders 47% of planned funds. While Croatian lawyers cry for employment is planned the approved funds are obviously not well-placed. Therefore, I do not find it encouraging to increase resources because it is evident that even my own programs cannot be translated into life. Nothing's better with other programs. For example, in support of the intergenerational solidarity programme, almost twice as much funding is planned as this year. In addition to the fact that on 10.11., only 58 planned funds have been invested. For the development of service activities for older people, more than 1 and a half times as planned this year is planned and only 56 % of the planned funds are invested in this year. The living room for the elderly is only realized by 48%. By supporting the government programme at the beginning of the mandate, we also supported the establishment of the family ministry. The family is the basic unit of society. The general finding is that the family is in crisis is growing violence in the family, eroding the family leads to the erosion of society. The budget provides funds to monitor and improve family policy, but is used with only 49%. Only 45% have been invested out of funds to improve the protection of victims of domestic violence. And yet new funds are planned with an increase of 14%. Support for the programme for social empowerment of families, young children and people with disabilities from the planned funds has been invested only 76 but the newly planned funds are 68.8% higher than this year's. A similar situation is the promotion of multi-member families through measures to promote birth, care for young people and people with disabilities. The funds could not be used because they could not be designed and implemented and therefore it is difficult to believe that the increase in funds to this ministry would benefit anyone but for pre-election purposes. A detailed analysis determines that the budget is not even social. The posters assure us that there are higher pensions, and the budget, as well as some government officials, say pensions will not grow in line with salary growth. At the beginning of the term of office, this Assembly amended the Law and pensions are in line with wage growth. At the end of its term, the government left an average pension at 44.71% of the average salary. All points to pensions moving backwards from salary and I'm afraid they could return to 35.41% of the average salary, the average pension of 31.12.1999. The pensioners are becoming increasingly clear that since the promised debt return, there will be nothing for a long time, and in this way certainly never. Today we've heard enough arguments to prove that the budget isn't developed, but also social, then it's only of course pre-election. Convincing the people of the government's success, the posters say, we bought all the wheat. That's right. Same as last year. Even the price is the same. 1 kuna, and the only difference is that this year the blue oil is more expensive by 80%, the repromaterial of the taco, and the incentives were paid 40% less than last year. Rural development funds were used with only 32%, to boost agricultural production of intervention on the market 89%, and to support income with only 40%. In such an execution, what does the planned increase mean besides temporary eye blurry mean? For the so-called 4 million-planned irrigation system, 0 was spent, and now 30 million are planned. Which means planning when it is evident that there is no political will for all strategic projects in Croatia to have equal primates. It is the same situation with the waters of Eastern Slavonia. We cannot be satisfied with loose promises that disappear or rebalance or failure, because the promises we made have been kept, and we felt little of what we had promised, and because of that as well as the past and this budget, I cannot support them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25881	Thank you very much, colleague. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected colleague Petricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25882	Mr. Vice President, colleague Lalic. In addition to reading the percentages for the implementation of the budget for the first 6 months of 2004 there really was a lot of untrueness, and one in particular I will underline to you. It is not true that the state will also neglect many projects at local level. You mentioned it yourself. Well, they'll also be funded by the Regional Development Fund. You know that the state and this government do well.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25883	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Lalic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25884	I thank Mr. Vice President, so a colleague of mine has been offended by the Rules of Procedure because she has not corrected my exact quote. All that I've been reading, colleagues, look at the budget, try to read it, so when you read it nice and nice, then just rightly report to me for the correction of my wrong quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25885	Injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25886	... My colleague hurt the Rules of Procedure in such a way that she couldn't deny what I told her, and this second part of my dear colleague's answer is not going to answer, so I'm going to ask her out for coffee, so I'm going to tell her that there is also a nice dictionary that we can use very well when we sit at the table and have lunch together. [[Last-on speaker]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25887	Here, let me answer that. No injured 209, paragraph 2. He's talking about correcting an incorrect quote, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. Okay. Nothing. Nothing. That's what I expected. Let's move on, correcting the incorrect allegations, the esteemed colleague byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25888	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrs Lalic said that the budget was neither developed nor social, that without a view, that it was misery and misery, it was incorrect because it was not misery and misery. That 164 million kuna is determined for small, medium and commercial companies and cooperatives, 100 million kunas to encourage entrepreneurial infrastructure, that for the development of crafts 57% is increased, 3 million kunas, that for the retraining and requalification of craftsmen is increased 157 times, and is one million kunas, that for the craft register is increased 28 times is 2 million and 500 thousand kuna, that for the programme to improve the competitiveness of Croatia, the Croatian economy is amounting to 2 and a half million kunas, etc., etc., and also, as regards families, birth benefits have been paid back to 2000 levels, maternity leave at 2000 level, a project for multi-member families, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25889	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25890	Thank you, Mr. President. Your predecessor, Vice President of the Parliament, has hurt ,...injured for Article 209(2) which states: [[Intruder: He could have what was the predecessor of the vice president, but you are obliged immediately to specify which article of the Rules of Procedure]] And now you are insulting, and the representative must be limited to correction in his speech. [[/Intruder: My predecessor Mr. Arlovic has injured]] Otherwise, the motionor will take away his word. The vice president didn't take away Mrs. Byte's word And that's how he hurt the Rules of Procedure. [[/Agreement: It is not true, Vice President Arlovic followed the Rules of Procedure correctly.]] If Mrs. Byte is... But it's the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25891	Vice-President Arlovic has done exactly as the Rules of Procedure. I followed on the screen that it was true that he didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. Because you didn't specify the Rules of Procedure. [[/Intruder: Mr. Arlovic has not acted on the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President. And why don't you, Mr. President, let me explain now?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25892	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25893	You can't, 10, 100 times, explain that article 209 is just talking about the institute of correcting an incorrect quote. You as a lawyer know that very well. According to Article 209, who may seek a breach of the Rules of Procedure, how long it may take, and what should be stated, that it is necessary to specify the provision of a Rules of Procedure which it considers to have been injured. It can't, you're an experienced lawyer once, it doesn't work anymore. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomljanović, here's a replica. ... Thanks for the offer. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Once I'm a lawyer again, I'll probably accept that offer of yours, and we can be friends. Just don't sing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25894	Mr. President, I will rephrase to my esteemed colleague Lalić no matter where she had the internship in the part where she commented on the percentages of budget implementation compared to the first 6 months or the first 10 months of the current year. Dear colleagues Lalic, regardless of the level of discussion or debate, municipal, city, county or state for the first six months or the first 9 months when the implementation of the budget item is 45, 50, 58%, then they are fantastic results in terms of execution. And then bring this in terms of the implementation of the 2004 budget with the failure of the programme or the failure and inability of the government to implement its programmes and bring it into the context of some pre-election promises, certainly there is no budgetary logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25895	Thank you very much. State Secretary Tomislav Ivić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25896	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also like to respond to the distinguished representative, Ms Lalic, that this budget, especially that part relating to the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity, has nothing to do with the presidential and local elections. You must also know that the Ministry of the Family has only existed since the New Year and that for the first time Croatia has the Ministry of the Family and it is quite understandable that in the first half of the year there was a smaller implementation of the budget than the ideal one. But by the end of the year, the vast majority of the programmes will be implemented, especially when it comes to the 2005 budget. All programs the Ministry of the Family will be implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25897	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25898	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State incorrectly said that the budget of the Ministry of the Family was not carried out as I stated. Mr. Secretary of State, you listed those numbers. The implementation of the budget with 16 or 43% and, at the same time, the increase in the budget by several times for the following year, from these data cannot be carried out in any other way than to some extent. To what purpose? Well, I think that's completely understandable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25899	Okay, thank you. And Mrs. Honored Representative Marija Lugaric, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25900	The imprecise allegation of Mr. Secretary of State Ivic is that the reason for the non-work and non-execution of certain items in the Ministry of the Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity is the fact that this ministry exists only since this term, therefore, not for a full year. It is true that the existing National Institute for the Protection of Family, Motherhood and Youth has been abolished and fully incorporated into the existing, current Ministry, and the reason for the non-execution of part of the budget item is a clear incompetence, which proves that the tender for support for youth programmes was launched in the 11th month of last year, and working groups have not met until the beginning of the 11th month and have not reached a decision which will be awarded to NGOs for young people the money that was planned in this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25901	Thank you. Dear Representative Luka Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25902	Thank you, Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. As always, the draft budget has spurred discussions that have caused both satisfaction and self-sufficiency and self-sufficiency on the one hand, such concerns and mistrust on the other. The diversity in the assessment of its real power reminded me of the optimist and pessimist assessment of a half-full or half-empty glass, although the observed amount of fluid in the glass was the same in both. And we must really deal with assessments to what extent this budget can meet those human needs that depend on the activities of the state. We need to assess whether we are optimistic or pessimistic, whether it is a development budget, whether it is social enough and whether it ensures in its projection satisfactory development by respecting all the constraints that the composers of this Budget had in mind. It should be reminded from the very beginning that this is the first full budget of this government. In fact, this year's budget was only a continuation of temporary funding in the first 3 months and in some way the continuation and continuity of the former government's projection over the past 7.8 months, with slight changes in some budget items. I have to remind you one more time. The Croatian public and remind you and the Croatian public, that this year's Budget was adopted in April this year in completely original form as the Government offered it to this House for discussion. Without any comments from any amendment, I hold that it is not good at all. Which continues to fuel the thesis on the full marginalisation of the Croatian Parliament and its influence. And I believe that it is legitimate for every government to propose their own budget proposal, giving priority to certain priorities and projects by selecting those projects that it thinks will get the best effects. But whether this budget prefers investment in incentives in entrepreneurship or encourages investment in capital infrastructure projects or gives priority to fostering agriculture or by means that it wants to encourage exports or that it wants to allocate a significant amount to science and education, it is absolutely necessary for us to also allow representatives to hear our voice. And that the best proposals, even to the minimum, should be incorporated into this budget. Some of the amendments we are going to offer I think it was necessary as a nearly binding practice to introduce this Parliament. So I said, even in symbolic form. But when I look at the indicators shown in the Proposal for this Budget, I can't help but notice that it's a model for everyone as many have said so far, to everyone a little more, but to no one else enough. The principle that gives right to those who judge it as pre-election and that is why we can rightly say that the budget is neither sufficiently developed nor social enough. It is quite clear that there is no redundancy of the economy, there is no letter of tax reform, and if something changes then it is on the burden of citizens who lose some rights by the new Income Tax Act, and the increased amount of non-taxable income from a thousand and 500 per thousand and 600 kuna per user is quite insignificant, said some and exact percentages as much as it is. Without major investment, above all in development, knowledge and exports, which is primarily based on new employment, which would significantly change relations in production and consumption in favour of domestic production, which would significantly change relations in the trade in goods by reducing the balance of payments deficit and thus significantly improve the overall economic situation in Croatia. But unfortunately for me, I don't think that's gonna happen. The total debt will continue to grow, and imports will continue to be significantly double the export price even though exports are growing at a higher rate than imports. Most of the money will continue to go into personal consumption because there is insufficient investment in capital projects, in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, in exports, in the promotion of production and in particular employment. No, as we can see, there's no greater separation for local and regional self-government units. And yesterday, in this Chamber, the draft law on the different distribution of income tax and that part belonging to local and regional self-government units with very inconclusive arguments was rejected. It is not clear from the funds allocated to the Regional Development Fund that various parts of Croatia have a range of thousands and some dollars per capita, to more than $15,000 per capita. In some other regions, which means that some still have no chance of water they don't have, for a gas they also don't have, and their lagging behind every day is going to be bigger and bigger. No sign of hope for those who thought it was finally their turn. It is known that social conflicts and personal dissatisfaction are largely growing from material shortages. So, according to my assessment, dissatisfaction and conflict will continue to grow which, hopefully, is not the goal of any of us. And I admit, it's very hard to get out and see what's necessary. The fact is that the economic structure is slowly changing, often worse. I will read and quote today's "Free Dalmatia" and a respected economist who says this: "Serious agencies from the developed world tell us that Croatia currently takes 67th place in the world, given the competitiveness of its economy, which for 5th places is worse than a year ago. Bad placement, but even worse trend. Croatia's credit rating towards renowned houses dealing with such estimates has been low and standing for a long time, standing unchanged." Still, he says, "Croatia again, in the opinion of world-renowned houses, is highly corrupt, while with the lowest corruption of Finland first on the world ranking list, Croatia only takes 67 places to talk about the high presence of corruption." Enough reason for concern and serious warning, a warning to investors. In all of this, surely the fastest changes that we all know are costs and debts, and in general only for more and therefore the focus on reforms that need to be implemented is an necessity that has no alternative, so that the budget is not spent as many people really do. A orientation to the development of entrepreneurship based on imagination that needs to be constantly developed and encouraged to overcome the maximum that exists in successful and developed countries of the world as much as you give to me as I give to you. It is clear that such a pistachio cannot be achieved without a better organised state administration, without the support of a banking system which is at this moment driven primarily by speculative reasons and interests rather than directed towards me by the promotion of production and of course its development. For all these reasons, root reforms are necessary to remove and produce a business climate that fertilises necessarily limited financial resources and ensure conditions for greater changes in goods and services and thus speed up growth and development. How from all of these indicators I can't be sure that all of this is going to happen and they're also denying the voice of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25903	Thank you very much. State Secretary Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25904	Dear Mr. President, since Ms. Lalic's distinguished representative mentioned both agriculture and the budget and the way in which the incentives and the funds are paid for it, I think I owe something that has already been said several times in this House. In 2003, there was no respect for the Agriculture Act, according to this is not the Government of the Republic of Croatia's incentive quota, for this reason there was a breakthrough of the budget item and we inherited the commitments created in this year, and the outstanding incentives at the height of exactly, I have a list here of 989 million and 428 thousand kuna. Only for illustration is half the total budget for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. So these are the commitments made in 2003 and are not paid. In fact, it is a burden that we are trying to deal with this year and howling in every way possible because we do not want to deprive anyone of their rights, however, we must take care of the whole of that budget. And it should also be said that for 2004, we have developed new programmes, so the development of cattle production, the same operational programme for raising permanent plantations, where we have provided especially for those two items of the new 200 million kuna. We also hold that with the policy of incentive quotas, since this year the government has adopted them, however, so that we can have a significant impact on the focus and structure of agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25905	Thank you. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić, correction of the alleged incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25906	Thank you very much for correcting the State Secretary's allegations. Mr. Secretary of State, I think it's high time to stop making mutual accusations because we don't mention that in the year 2000, in the fifth month, we paid off the harvest in the year 99. Now that you're elaborated like this and you're interpreting it, then I'm glad we've paid 400 million kunas of partial damages away from the elemental disasters, because if the incentives were paid, you wouldn't pay for it. And as for cattle, 158,000 male cows last year got a boost of 139 million kuna, this year they're going to get 70 million kuna, that's it. It's an agrarian policy run by this Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25907	And who got the incentives? Did they get the cow's incentives or did they get the peasants' incentives? And the rest is controversial. Dear Representative Frano Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25908	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will be brief, in my support of the budget I want to say clear and loud. The two words most often heard today were social and developmental and all those who wanted to support the budget sought the reasons where he was social enough and where he was sufficient to develop and others who challenged him were also based on social and developmental but were looking for reasons where they did not find them or at least they did not see them. Therefore, when all of this is considered, however, it seems to me that this budget is one real budget, that it is the budget of our options, not the budget of our wishes that are probably far greater and I also believe that our needs are far greater than we can satisfy and aliminate with this budget for 2005. Now, it depends on what someone from the corner is looking at. They have two abbreviations that I like to use like this "IMT – Is There Me", "TNT – You Are Not Here". The one who found himself in that budget certainly supported it, if he did not find himself gone there, so he was probably much more critical perhaps even a little more malignancies than he would otherwise have been. What does a Croatian man usually care about? He wants to know if he truly will live better in the following year, or if he does not live worse than he did this year. He wants to know whether there will be employment, pensioners will probably be interested in whether there will be pensions, whether there will be better health care, more effective justice, but at local level, all those who expect to save from the budget are actually waiting to start their local resources with the basis of existing projects they have in the local community. Let's say the government and the ministries are viewed as collective Professor Balthazar, who provides a cure for many local problems, as could be seen. The state clearly has its objectives and priorities, however, and many local communities have their goals and priorities, however small these problems are for the local community and strategic and developmental and social ones, and therefore there is a need for hearing these problems as well. I am not going to read here what I was going to say yet to put it in the amendments to the budget, but given the dubiosis of the previous years when we take the debt of the pensioners, when we take the defenders, when we take the reconstruction, the refugees, and given the set objectives of macroeconomic policy and financial opportunities, I believe that this budget is realistic, that it reflects the real situation, that a measure has been found between the real needs of many expressed desires and limited possibilities. The criticism of the budget often mentions here a syntagma that it is a fulfillment, that it is not a fulfillment of the pre-election promises, it is not important that gentlemen are who they promised, it is important whether what is offered is real and that we all get along with it. I'm here and finally I'm saying I'm going to support this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25909	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25910	Dear President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. There's been a lot of talk today about the budget, so I'm going to try to be brief. This is the first draft budget prepared entirely by this government, but the government has also provided us with a projection in addition to the 2005 Budget for two years to come, which is for every commendation. The proposal for a 2005 budget is based on positive macroeconomic indicators for 2004 and estimates of macroeconomic indicators for the next period. In line with the expected growth in economic activity, revenues from the state budget are planned to amount to €86.4 million, which is 5% higher than this year. As budget expenditures are planned at 90.9 billion kuna, which is about 4 billion kuna more than this year. For next year, total general government deficits are planned for 3.7% of GDP, which is 2.6 percentage points lower than last year's 6.3% deficit. The planned budget deficit as we see it will be around 4 and a half million, the government plans to cover from planned privatisation revenues, it is probably meant to privatise Ina, but in the following year it will need to pay 12.3 billion kuna, when we add to the payment of the 4.5 billion interest and another 3.2 billion kuna needed to finance the deficits of Croatian highways and Croatian roads, then the country must be charged for nearly 20 and 19.8 billion kuna in the following year. Analyzing certain items of this budget, we can safely argue that it is developed and social because it provides investment in the economy, but also meets all needs for social expenditures and transfers to citizens. The largest budget users are three resistors. The first is an economy with a planned budget of €27.9 billion, of which €24 billion will relate to pensions. Two other health care resistors and social care with 18.1 billion kuna, of which 14.7 billion kuna is waste on the health insurance system. For example, health care will spend 2.2 billion kuna on prescription medicines, which is 13.1% higher. For sickness benefits, one billion kuna, and for hospital and health care, 6.5 billion or 6.5% more than this year, which is very, very good. According to data from these portfolios, for example, the state will set aside 261.8 million kuna to support political parties 46.6 million kuna or 16.5% more than this year. The Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Reconstruction will have 6.2% of kuna, with 6.2 billion kuna or 3.5% more than this year, which will certainly allow for the continuation of all those initial capital investments, especially investment in highways, and I believe we will continue to build the Split-Dubrovnik highway. The ministry, which is a good part of its funding for subsidies, the agriculture ministry, which will allocate 2.05 billion kuna out of the total planned 2.8 billion kuna for subsidies. Information from land-book funds is projects from the Justice Department, and the portfolio will have a total of $1.9 billion or 2.1% higher. Whether these funds are sufficient for quality judicial reform is questionable. Surely, as chairman of the Justice Committee, I would like these funds to be higher because only significant investment in space personnel is a possible quality reform of the Croatian judiciary. Budgetary pension expenditures are increasing by 1.2 billion kuna to a total of 24 billion kuna and wage expenditures are 3.1%. Also planned, the budget plans to increase maternity benefits from this year's 976 million to 1.2 billion. For the rights of defenders, an increase of €200 million has been planned, and drug isolation will also increase from this year's 1.8 billion to €2.6 billion in this year. As a representative of the Sibenik-Knin County, I am not very satisfied with the funds provided for this county. Namely, there are a number of capital projects that need to be implemented in this county. I'll only mention wastewater disposal projects, the recovery of wild dumps and dumps. These are projects without which tourism in this county will not advance and we know that tourism is one of the main economic branches of this county. However, I hope that these projects will find their place in the relevant resolution ministries and that some of these projects will still be implemented. And finally what to say, rather than once again confirm that this is a developmental, social programme and that it should be accepted as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25911	Thank you very much. And finally a respected representative, Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25912	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed members of the government, I will be brief in this presentation. I will support the proposal for this budget for 2005 for a number of reasons. This budget shows that it is realistic, regardless of all the criticisms that are referred to not being developed, that it is not social, that it is both developed and social, it moves in the allowed, I would say the frameworks, the estimated deficit of 3.7% and according to the implementation of the state budget in this year shows that it is possible to carry out responsible and disciplined all ministries and budget users if they behave responsibly and in accordance with the law that then and the implementation of the budget under the plan can also be achieved. I would just briefly say what is related to health care, health care this year gets a total of a billion and 80 million more than that only the Ministry of Health and Social Care 380 million. And the Croatian Health Insurance Office 700 million kuna. I would also note that there is also 450 million to be counted on from supplementary health insurance, so that the Croatian Health Insurance Office will practically have more than 15 billion to cover its expenditures. I'd point out something else that maybe nobody's mentioned before. That the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is almost covering all of its budget items with contributions. So the contributions for 2005 are projected by 14.5 billion. And I'd just like to remind you that unlike the Peace Fund where nine billion are missing. Health care therefore covers itself with its own original incomes. And that's good. And on the other hand, I would point out that this year has passed without credit, which was the custom of previous years, and that the loans are not foreseen for the next two years that are still indicated in this budget, because this is a three-year budget, so for each year it is projected how much the item increases for each portfolio. I would say that of these expected expenditures in health care, I would remind you that investment is significant and very high compared to our options when looking at a 480 million investment item including loans from the Council of Europe and the World Bank and plus 400 million decentralised funds, that in health care investments will virtually provide for around 880 million dollars next year, that is a major item and that is a great burden on the health system. But he's well-planned and he'll be possible. What is new and what is in this budget is indicated as the need to provide items for reforming the hospital system, which as you know the largest consumer in the health system and exactly the reorganisations that are foreseen by categorisation, rehabilitation of hospitals for these jobs is envisaged twice as large items for next year, so the process is expected to be finalised both in this way and in this way and in health costs brought into the frameworks of income. And in the end, I think that the health care system, regardless of all the criticism that there won't be enough money, all the spending-restriction measures, we've proved this is possible this year. And I would remind you that at the beginning of this year, spending in health was over 25% compared to the first months of last year, and that in October is only 5%, so we're almost almost approaching the allowed budget breakthrough for the 4.5%. And here's one more time with these brief notes that I think it was important to point out, I support this budget, and I think it will be feasible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25913	Thank you very much. The list reported for this debate has been exhausted. Does Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker want to give a final review? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25914	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of my government colleagues, I thank everyone for a constructive debate, the government will consider your proposals and amendments and will be manifested by Wednesday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25915	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work at the 11th session of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome you all as well as the members of the government present. The proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005, debate and vote on amendments, is on the agenda. The debate on the text of the draft budget is over. We should move to a statement by the motions and a vote on the amendments tabled. I note that, except for today, we have the ones that we will specifically decide on, the 5 amendments of the Government to the budget and the 325 amendments to the MPs. According to the budget, if each amendment were to be voted on on average, it would be discussed and voted on for 3 minutes, and the vote on amendments would take 15.30 hours. We'll be working with a break from 13.30 to 15.00 hours. So we will probably have a long debate and a vote on amendments and finally on the budget. The president of the HDZ Club, vice president, respected representative Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25917	Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I ask that all amendments be voted by the raise of hands, because that is how we will save time. And if you've already said that about 3:30 a.m. it would take the amendments to the vote, then that's what supports this proposal of mine. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25918	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25919	Your Honor, Mr. President, on behalf of the HSP Club, I must point out two important things. The first thing is that there are no items planned for the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre in the State budget for this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25920	That's what we're going to discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25921	Listen to me when I'm talking, and you'll hear from me later. There's no item. We have given this amendment, there is no final bill that speaks of Croatia not wanting to do so. The other thing is, we had an amendment for the Antunovac municipality, where there wasn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25922	That's what we'll do, counselor. We'll discuss all the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25923	A 15-minute break on behalf of the Club, these are important questions for deciding us first on the budget. Croatian Memorial documentation..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25924	Well, it's good to discuss the amendments that have been submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25925	Not accepted for Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25926	We will discuss whether something will be accepted to discuss and vote a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25927	How do we do that when you don't put them in the process?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25928	What's put in and what's included..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25929	That's why we're looking for a break, because it's an important fact for the Club's position on amendments and budget, you understand. We're looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25930	I'm obliged to give you your club as well as any other break, just please take care of it until we discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25931	The question is Croatia, not time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25932	Ten minutes. I'd like a representative of the HSP Club! Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25934	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, we know that the State budget is one of the most important laws that we make. And that the State budget determines how and what will be done in Croatia next year. And that's why the HSP Club asked for a break, a break, and now I'm going to say on behalf of the club what's most important. The first thing is that in the State budget for next year there is no position for the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre from the Homeland War, there is not yet a final proposal for a second reading that we should have done to the government and club HSPA together. The government has not called us at all, we have prepared a proposal and most Croatian defenders who are at any stage in front of The Hague are looking for Croatian defenders as well as us to put an item on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre from the Homeland War and to systematically begin to process all the citizens of the Homeland War to help the generals. The other important thing that we wanted to say here is that all the amendments relating to Slavonia, and we know what the situation is, starting with Mr. Glavas, Drmic, Šišljagic and ours are for procedural reasons that they cannot be discussed at all. And, for example, our amendment to Antunovac capital donations to citizens and households for the exiles of the Municipality of Antunovac has no difference or in the same position means in accordance with Article 31. The state budget. And now I would accept it, or the HSP Club as legal, but we have on the other hand, Minister Schuker is also doing the government's amendment, and we will be able to vote on them and we will not be able to vote on these. We're not going to create two standards! That's what I'm talking about! The proposal of the HSP Club and the majority and Slavonia is that all amendments are put to the debate, to vote, you can normally reject it as you have already decided in advance but we must vote on them. We cannot allow different standards that what is not allowed for us is allowed to the government. That way we won't get far. Therefore, it is the only realistic way out of this situation so we can vote 24 hours but let it go, let it be heard and then we also have the opportunity to say what we think about it and make our final decision as a club how we're going to vote at the end around the budget. But without things like this, we can't talk about it at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25935	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the budget text debate is over! The procedure exists for the submission of amendments, deadlines, assumptions, there is, I have information from the Government that in the final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Memorial Centre funds will be provided and that they are covered from the position of the Ministry of Culture! But we cannot discuss this now because this debate is concluded on what should be and what should be! With regard to these amendments to the government, we will now move on to them. As far as I can see these first four amendments are of nomotechnical nature, Amendment 5 is indicated in accordance with Article 31. The law on the implementation of the Budget which the items are amended, downloaded and completed. But that's what we're going to have to discuss now in the debate on certain amendments. We are moving to declare the motion and vote on certain amendments. The amendments submitted shall be made by the applicant and, after the applicant has been shown to have an amendment to the applicant’s statement, only the applicant of the amendment may be referred to and his speech may not last longer than two minutes! First we have to show ourselves, there are these five amendments to the government. Do we vote on them, discuss them? In accordance with Article 166(2), The Rules of Procedure on these amendments may only be attended by representatives of representatives' clubs. We're going to amendment number one. Government. First, we should vote on whether we will accept the debate and vote on these amendments. Who is in favour of this proposal to discuss and vote on these amendments? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 62 for, 45 against and 4 abstentions. Minister Shuker, please explain Amendment 1. Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25936	Mr. President, Amendment 1. Government's a nomotechnical nature, I don't think we need to explain it specifically. It is therefore proposed that instead of the text “the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 and the projection for 2006” the text “the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005” in the further text “the budget consists of”.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25937	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 1. Government. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that the amendment has been accepted by 63 votes in favour, 48 against and four abstentions. Amendment 2. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25938	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Amendment number two. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is also nomotechnical in nature and there is no need to particularly explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25939	I'm opening a debate. I am voting on Amendment 2. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the amendment has been accepted, 64 in, 46 against, and five abstentions. Amendment 3 to the Minister, please explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25940	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, Amendment 3 is the same nomotechnical nature as it is proposed that instead of the text of revenue and expenditure and receipts and economic qualification expenditures are determined in the income and expenditure account and the financing account in the proposal for the State budget for 2005 and the projection for 2006 and 2007 will be as follows. The text of revenue and expenditure and receipts and expenditure under the economic qualification is therefore set out in the accounts of income and expenditure, and in the account of the financing of the 2005 State Budgetary proposal as follows. So we removed the 2006 and 2007 projection from that title.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25941	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on that amendment. Who's in? Against? Abstained? I find that the amendment was passed by 68 votes to 44 against and six abstentions. Amendment 4 to the Government, please be my guest Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25942	Amendment 4 of the Government to the Final Proposal for the 2005 Drave budget of the Republic of Croatia, in the general section behind Article 2, changes the operating and non-financial assets expenditure. According to changes in expenditure on budget beneficiaries proposed in Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25943	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of Klub HSP, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25944	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HSP Club, I say that there is no nomotechnical nature here, namely, the truth of this amendment is poorly written, I don't know if there are billions here, or thousands, or if it shouldn't be 12 billion 164 million 616 thousand, to replace the amount of 12 billion 189 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25945	You are talking about Amendment 5 but not about 4 amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25946	Four amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25947	Four amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25948	Here's four.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25949	Finalising the debate, I am voting on Amendment 4. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that the amendment was accepted by 69 votes to 45 against and four abstentions. Amendment 5. Governments, go ahead, go ahead, Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25950	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendments of 4 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia were made in accordance with Article 31 and the exact positions from which the funds are being reduced are being reduced and the positions to which the funds are being increased. I'd like to mention two things here. Therefore, primarily at the position of the Ministry of Finance, the funds for co-financing of export interest are increased by 80 million kuna at the position of HABORA. It also reduces funds by 2 million 82 thousand, 336 kuna from the position of the international membership office of the Ministry of Finance. The same amount increases the head and position of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. While in the positions of the Ministry of Defence of the Interior and the Ministry of Agriculture, water economy forestry. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports have made redistributions within the positions of the ministries themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25951	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 5. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that 5 amendments were accepted by 69 votes in, 43 against and 10 abstentions. We are now going to discuss and vote on amendments to the table. Minister, please take your place. Amendment 1 to President Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25952	The government does not accept Mr Stazic's amendment because we believe that the funds in the post-deservation position are sufficient for the needs planned to be paid in 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25953	Representative Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25954	Your Honors Minister, all my amendments and there are exactly 19 of them have the same explanation. It is possible to implement the law on the granting of permanent cash compensations to the persons responsible, from the law published in the National No... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25955	Ladies and gentlemen, no one who speaks or hears can be heard. Not everyone else. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25956	So Law published in National No. 96, 93 years old. As far as a state is concerned, it also determines how well it respects the positive rules. The laws that apply. When a citizen commits a misdemeanor, for example. from the Road Safety Act, then he gets fined. Because it's law enforcement. That's good. That's the way it's supposed to be. But we wonder what happens when the state, when the government, which proposes laws, does not respect positive regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25957	It seems that the peace warning in the hall doesn't apply to some MPs, you can't hear the MPs working.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25958	I'll explain these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25959	For some, it's obviously still not worth it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25960	I'll explain these amendments to you and prove two things. That the law respects it and that the funds you've predicted are not enough. So, for starters, I'm asking for a vote on this first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25961	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2 is also the representative of Nenad Szazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25962	The government does not accept, as is the case with the first amendment, that the funds proposed will be sufficient to pay compensation to the responsible persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25963	Mr. Stazic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25964	On 6 October 93, the Croatian Parliament passed a law on the granting of permanent cash payments to servants. The Law states in its 5th article that constant cash compensation is increasing over the year, according to the increase in salaries of all employees in the Republic of Croatia, in the current month, according to the previous month, and based on data from the State Statistics Office. This is an article of the Law that is not respected, because the constant fees, since they were introduced, since 93, are. since the adoption of implementing rules on 94 July, they shall not comply. They are rudely the same and the law is not respected. In order for the law to be respected, corrections should be made and significantly higher resources should then be provided for in the budget. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25965	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 3. also representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25966	The government does not accept because it considers that the funds in the position of compensation to the responsible persons are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25967	Representative Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25968	Of course, politicians are responsible for the formation of the Croatian state, the defenders who defended the country are represented, but all those citizens who gave the country's prospects are also responsible. They're one word we call worthy citizens. And the state decided back in '93 to grant them permanent cash benefits. In this budget of yours, Mr. Minister, we have protected and rewarded categories of citizens responsible for the formation of this country. However, huge injustices and the non-compliance of laws are carried out according to these well-deserved citizens. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25969	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 4 also to the representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25970	The government does not accept, since it considers that the funds provided are sufficient to fulfil the obligations,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25971	Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25972	These well-deserved citizens, according to the latest census, have exactly 862. Who are they? Highlighted scientific workers, 33, prominent educational educators, 20, writers 87, composers 18, 1 architect, sculptor 24, painters 103, applied creators 25, drama artists 120, opera artists 72, ballet artists 86, musician 101, conductors 9, director 33, prominent athletes and sports workers 8. They're citizens I'm pushing for to be compensated by the state under the law. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25973	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 5. Also represented by Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25974	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the reason that the position of compensation to the responsible persons has provided sufficient resources for 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25975	Representative Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25976	The SDP Club has proposed to amend this law in order to achieve justice, in order to enable these well-deserved citizens of the Republic of Croatia to pay the compensation they are miserable today. They're miserable because they're equal to 94, and they're at a maximum of 500 kuna, and then 300 kuna, 200 kuna and a minimum of 100 kuna. These citizens are retired and must not have any other source of income. No other way. Their pensions are nothing. Their pensions suck. Therefore, this law has been passed to repair their material position, but the material position cannot be improved with 100 kuna per month and to give one prominent scientific worker 100 kuna monthly pension allowance is offensive, except it is illegal, which I will prove. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25977	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 6, also representing Nenad Stazic,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25978	The Government of the Republic does not accept, the Republic of Croatia does not accept, as it believes that the position of compensation to the responsible persons has provided sufficient resources in 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25979	Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25980	You have provided funds to pay now for individual prominent citizens, you pay 200, per month, at the monthly level of 272.920 kuna, and at the annual level 3.275.040 kuna, and for family members you now pay 16.500 kuna per month, i.e. at the annual level of 198,000 kuna or a total of 3.473.040 kuna per year. If the law were to be respected, if these compensations were to be aligned under Article 5 of the applicable law, the funds would have to be higher. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25981	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 7. Also advocacy of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25982	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept, as it believes that compensation to the responsible persons in 2005 has provided sufficient resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25983	Mr. Stazic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25984	You see, Minister, why aren't the necessary funds secured? The court experts have calculated, made a harmonisation and by their calculation of the fallout, so that you should pay, monthly total out 517.846 kuna and 91 lip instead of 272 thousands and 920 kuna as much as you are now paying. Or at the annual level, you would have to allocate 6 million 214 thousand 162 kuna and 92 June in a position where you did not provide enough funds, because you only pay 3 million 275 thousand and 40 kuna. So I ask the vote on this amendment, so that the law can be implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25985	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 8, also representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25986	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept, as compensations to the positions of compensation to the responsible persons have been provided sufficient resources for 2005 in the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25987	Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25988	By not respecting the law, a certain debt has been created. This debt amounts to 8 million 616 thousand 144 kuna and 98 limes for individuals, and for family members 810 thousand 272 kuna or a total of 9 million 426 thousand 416 kuna and 98 limes. It's a debt based on one category of pensioners. One category of pensioners. If this is not corrected, because the debt is created by the law, the debt will grow, the problem will accumulate. I therefore request a vote on this amendment, so that the situation will cease.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25989	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 9th Amendment is also a representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25990	The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept, as it believes the proposed funds in the position of compensation to the responsible persons are sufficient for 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25991	Representative Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25992	If you were right or you were right or you were right, Minister, then the law should be amended and the fees fixed in 94 will never change again and will not be harmonised with anything. However, see Article 5 of that Law, which clearly gives you the obligation to comply, if that obligation exists, then the means that you have provided for are neither far enough. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25993	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't get the need for most of it. 10th Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25994	The government does not accept because it believes the funds at the position of the "Rome Programme" of the current donations in the 2005 budget are sufficient for the projected programmes, more so than the Government intends to start a whole new Roma programme with the World Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25995	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25996	I thank you, I am pleased to hear that the government will start a new programme for the Roma, but here I am exclusively looking for an increase in funds due to the extremely difficult situation of Roma in Sisak-Moslavica County, especially in the town of Sisak, it is not some periphery that is practically in the centre of Sisak, and I am looking for additional means to improve their living conditions. I'd like to ask the amendment in question to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25997	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 11th Representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25998	Representative Stazic has proposed an amendment for compensation to the responsible persons, the government believes the proposed funds in the 2005 budget are sufficient for the execution of this position.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u25999	Mr. Stazic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26000	Now we come to a turning point of the minister, refuse all the amendments so far, and you have made it clear that in the coming year for which we are now making the budget, you will not allocate enough resources to comply with the law. However, it is not all a problem, 240 users of these compensations have already sued the state. And we now move on to amendments that need to be provided with funds that you have in the budget enough money to pay off those users in court lawsuits, which is why I ask you to accept this amendment so as not to find yourself in unprotected grapes. And fellow MPs, especially those from the Croatian Retirement Party, please accept to vote in favour of this amendment because this is about getting money to pay the pensioners a single debt that was created by disregarding the law. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26001	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 12. Also represented by Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26002	The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept, it believes... the positions of compensation to the responsible persons will be sufficient in 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26003	Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26004	We said that these users totaled 862, were sued by a total of 240, and when the court warlocks calculated how much debt they had so far due to non-compliance with the law then they came up with a sum of 3 million 275 thousand and 40 kuna, those funds in the budget would be missing. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26005	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 13. Honored representative of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26006	The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept, it believes that the projected funds at the position of the executive authority in the amount of $1 million will be sufficient for the job envisaged in 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26007	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26008	I thank you, of course, Mr. Minister, I suppose it's clear that I've been looking for these additional funds precisely for reasons that we've noticed a year ago, which is the return of government contracts to direct contracts. I specifically mean "Sunished Hvar" on the Kvestus case, Bechtel's various situations that would require extra funds to carry out more quality and better control over government work, I'm afraid that the funds in question will not be enough for these reasons that we will not have a good quality of supervision. I pray for this amendment to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26009	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 14 of Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26010	The government considers that the proposed funds in the position of compensation to the credited persons are sufficient for 2005 and therefore does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26011	Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26012	When I took office as a representative, we swore after the election that we would stick to the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Croatia in our work. In order to implement the laws, the laws of the Republic of Croatia need to be adopted by the amendment to this particular case, the Law on the granting of permanent cash compensation to the persons responsible. Otherwise, we make it clear that we do not want to implement the applicable law. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26013	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment to the 15th legislator, also Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26014	The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept because it believes that the funds in the position of compensation to the responsible persons will be sufficient in 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26015	Mr. Stazic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26016	The funds as I've proven to you won't be enough, because when you calculated the funds you didn't simply consider that for years you haven't done the coordination, because you don't do them, because it's a fact. And the fact is, the law obliges you to do so. So what you're saying is that the funds planned will be enough simply isn't true, you won't have enough resources. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26017	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 16. Also represented by Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26018	The government does not accept the amendment because it believes the proposed funds will be sufficient in 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26019	Mr. Stazic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26020	By killing these amendments, you ministers send a clear message not only to the users of these constant cash compensations but also to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia that they cannot count on state aid while you are making the budget. That in this country it is not worth being either a prominent drama artist, or a prominent film artist, or a prominent scientist, because if you happen to be with yourself while the Minister of Finance, Mr. Shucker, is taking machete. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26021	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 17. Also represented by Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26022	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept because it considers the proposed funds sufficient in 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26023	Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26024	And it's those people's fault that they can't get the cash that belongs to them under the law, which is the fault of these people that the parliamentary majority has rejected the SDP's proposal to amend the law under which the compensation granted would be both fair and legal. What are all these 862 people's faults? Who have invested their intelligence, their work, their entire working life to make this country look better, cultured, smarter. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26025	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 18. Also represented by Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26026	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept because it considers that the proposed funds are sufficient for 2005 in the position of compensation to the persons in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26027	Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26028	Ministers, when the case comes to court and they will come because 240 lawsuits have been filed. Then the verdict will be because the evidence process here will be very short, unusually short, the judge will look at the applicable law, determine that you have not followed it and will establish that the state has made a debt to that category of pensioners. Then by judgment, if you do not believe in me, then you will see that the means you have provided are not sufficient for you from afar. Accept these amendments. At least accept this one to reduce future damage. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26029	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 19th Honored Representatives of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26030	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept because it considers the funds provided for in the position of a project of NGOs in the field of protection and promotion and respect for human rights are available.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26031	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26032	It is precisely for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to negotiations to join the European Union and most of all of us, that additional funds should be allocated for projects of NGOs because this is one of the ways that we will adapt more easily, better adapted to all European Community standards. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26033	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 20. Also Alenka Kosisa's MPs Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26034	The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept because it considers that the planned funds for the implementation of the national plan for the prevention of human trafficking are sufficient in 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26035	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26036	I thank this, too, every day we witness various articles in the media, newspapers and all the other media about how human trafficking is done. As we are exactly the country through which these channels often go to us and end, I think these funds are not enough, I suggest adding another million kuna to that item because it is necessary to prevent human trafficking with the help of NGOs. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26037	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 21st representative of Nenad Stazic. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26038	The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for two reasons. One thing is that we consider that the intended funds are sufficient, and another thing we cannot possibly accept is a reduction and a proposal for a reduction from the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, because I think it is the biggest monster of this society and that any proposal and such means as such are a reduction of such funds I think at least is not good, I'm not going to use some more difficult term. So there are two reasons, one is that we believe the proposed funds are sufficient, and another that we cannot possibly accept the proposal to be in a position where the funds for the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse suggest a reduction of funds, regardless of the position. So it is something simple that is unacceptable to this Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26039	Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26040	Well, it's not like that, Minister, because at the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, 50 thousand kunas were scheduled to be removed from the program for official travel. I don't see how official travels could reduce the monster of drug abuse. I don't think that's what official travels do. And if it's done, then it's done in a completely wrong way. Therefore, for 50,000 kuna, if you would reduce these official travels, you would have 50,000 kunas more to comply with the law, respect the law in the first place, and a fairer attitude towards the worthy citizens who have owed this country in such a way that it is difficult to repay them with any gratitude, but it can at least allow them to have a decent, somewhat dignified life of old age. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26041	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 22nd Alenka Kosha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26042	The government does not accept the amendment and believes the proposed funds are, will be sufficient for what is planned to be done in 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26043	A representative of the Chichin-Shain basket. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26044	Thank you. I have to admit, I don't think 200 grand is enough, it's not enough resources, I suggest a million kuna increase. These resources need to be significantly increased precisely because of the lack of information from citizens, I am particularly talking about a young group of people, so our young people, about the harmfulness of intoxicating drugs, are not sufficiently familiar with this fact and I think that the resources are insufficient for this activity. I pray for this amendment to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26045	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 23rd Representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26046	The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept because it believes that the funds provided for, in the position of compensation and the persons responsible in 2005 will be sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26047	Representative Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26048	The funds, I've proven to you, will not be enough. Thus, repeating the same sentence as a mantra will not help you. However, here in this amendment I have provided for you from your ministry to take down 100 thousand kuna and from the position of the national team. Because I really think it would be far more useful to spend 100,000 kunas on fair fees to the rightful persons than on whiskey in the Ministry of Finance. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26049	In the Ministry of Finance, no whiskey was purchased in the last year, Mr. Representative, unlike the year before.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26050	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 24th Representative Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26051	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment for the simple reason it is envisaged, the funds planned for this purpose are exactly how much it takes to complete all planned works on border crossings towards Slovenia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26052	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26053	I propose that the border crossings towards the Republic of Slovenia be increased in this item for reasons why I propose that the border crossing problem in the Murska cret. In fact, the border crossing is close to the main city square, and communication in the city is almost interrupted precisely because there are huge crowds at the border crossing. These funds would actually be used this year to find an opportunity to move from the existing location of the border crossing to one space that would allow normal communication, traffic communication in the city, so I would ask you to tell me is he in that number and planned, is that what this border crossing is planned for?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26054	Comrade Zgrebec, are you asking for a vote or not, there's no debate, I think?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26055	I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26056	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 25. And also MP Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26057	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment because the funds envisaged to build and equip border crossings towards Hungary are fully in line with what is planned to be done next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26058	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26059	At the point of the border crossing towards the Republic of Hungary, I also propose an increase in funds, and since such aggregate amounts are given we do not know which border crossings are planned to be resolved in 2005, here I propose to resolve the road crossing along the railway crossing towards Hungary in Kotoriba. Namely, there are mutual interests, given that on the other side of the border there are 7 villages in which Croats dwell, and I think that's the interest of both sides, so I'm also asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26060	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 26th Representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26061	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the simple reason why the funds are planned for the Public Information Office in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the public relations are already so restrictively planned in 2005. Therefore, the reduction of these funds cannot be foreseen. And the proposed funds for representing the foreign systems are sufficient for courts to pay for what is planned this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26062	Representative Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26063	Is my minister! This is a different amendment than any 18 you've ever refused. In these 18 amendments, I have tried to raise enough funds from different positions to make compensations to the people who deserve it. Well, from the position of your ministry, I said better of those fees than of whiskey at the Ministry, you said no whiskey was purchased at the Ministry, but he bought a new Audi. This amendment, however, is going after something else. Namely, according to the court proceedings to be conducted for these responsible persons only in the court of Zagreb, you will have to pay 439 thousand and 200 kuna court costs. And when all the other courts are taken, that amount will be a million and 326 thousand 920 kuna. You will need these funds for lost disputes. So that's why I've been making this amendment and predicting that those funds are increasing to you. Because you're just gonna have to pay the court fees. And why I took off the position of informing the public of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because of the financing of the open door project from that position, and in this project, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will certainly not print a jumbo poster, and will certainly not record a video saying that it does not respect the Law on Reimbursements of Deserved Persons and that it does not want to and will not give those persons the compensation they are entitled to under the law. The video will not work, therefore, their resources can be reduced. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26064	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 27 MPs, Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26065	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for this amendment. But we also can't say that the projected funds will be sufficient, because simply no one can know in advance how much an elemental disaster will be. However, the practice has always been that part of the funds which are not sufficient for the elemental disasters is covered by the funds of the current budget reserve. And in the end, they serve the current budget reserves. Therefore, the government does not accept for this reason, if these funds are not sufficient, it will be paid out of the current budget reserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26066	Representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26067	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, I really believed after all these tragedies that we had during this year and all those that I wasn't going to tell an affair with a defense against a fight, when it was only three. Seven. The government made a decision to join the operational defense against the fight, I believed that this way we would not discuss this amendment, or believe... as much as you have predicted for the subsequent aftermath of the elemental accident is not enough to remove the damage. [[because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand]] And the Law on Defense against Fight obliges the Government to finance the defense against the fight and from this item. If this item remains that, if Mr. Minister took the law, where fortunately we had read the Law on Defense against Fight before taking over, then we would see what we must do and where we finance. So, this kind of funding is completely insufficient to fund the defense against the fight. Let's not give the citizens eyes dirty and give them a launch ramp of four missiles, and that way we'll go through the same way we did this year. If we're going to an operational defense against a fight, then she has to meet the standards. And it can't be formally satisfied legally, given two, three rockets, so here's to let people hear. Perhaps Mr. Minister, a good part of the Croatian citizens voted for those 64% who voted, or said that Croatia is not going in the right direction. And I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26068	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 28 representatives Mate Arlovic, Ljubice Brdarić and Mate Gavrana.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26069	Amendment 28 The Government does not accept the funds provided for in the position of the Ministry of Finance, with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports, so these funds are provided for at the position of 4 ministries and I believe they will be sufficient for the programmes planned in 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26070	Representative Ljubica Brdarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26071	Since we have repeatedly shown interest and concern for the Croatian people in our neighbouring country, we felt that this increase of 8 million kuna is necessary because these funds should be directed to the Croatian University in Mostar, KBC Mostar Matice in Croatia, the Cultural Art Society Prerorod, the Croatian National Theatre in Mostar and others. And I ask for an indication, I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26072	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 29 also of the same group of representatives of the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26073	Amendment 29 The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall not accept for reasons of application of Article 35. The law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Croatia has waived the income of its part of income from income tax and income tax. And also in 2004, income tax return was made for citizens from the state budget, and in this way, by giving up their share of the tax, part of the income tax and income tax, the Republic of Croatia gave up 483 million kuna in favour of local self-government units in the area of special state care. At the same time, it is in accordance with Article 35. The law on the implementation of the budget, instead of the units of local self-government, implemented the return of income tax totalling 355 million. So, from the state budget this year, the funds paid back on the basis of tax returns in 2004 was direct, indirect assistance to local self-government units in the area of special state care was over 800 million kuna. For the town of Lipik, taxes were paid back from the state budget of 3 million and 198,000 kuna. And for the town of Pakrac, worth 4 million 546 thousand kuna. Also, the funds that the state gave up in favour of the city of Lipika's budget were in terms of income tax 3 million and 137 thousand kuna. And a profit tax of 690,000 kuna. So a total of 3 million 800 and when you add these 3 million and 200 back, then it turns out that the indirect aid to the state of Lipik in 2004 was 7.8 million kuna, so the funds will be the same next year. I note that, by applying this Act and Article 35 of the Budgetary Act, we came to the conclusion that units of local self-government were not blocked in 2004 as it happened in 2003 when a return of taxes was made from the budget of the local self-government unit. So I repeat only for the town of Lipik is 8 million kuna, and for the town of Pakrac is 5, excuse me, and for the city of Pakrac is 11 million kuna. Therefore, these funds are not seen in the planned assistance of this budget. However, what happened to local self-government units in areas of special state concern in 2003 did not happen this year, so they functioned normally with the funds they received, and the state was doing out of the state budget income tax returns instead. So the total aid to the town of Pakrac and Lipik in 2004 was over 20 thousand kuna, far more than what you suggest to increase positions. And that's why the government can't accept that proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26074	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26075	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is pleasant to hear Mr. Ministers all the government's efforts to help areas of special state care, especially the cities of Lipik and Pakrac. However, despite all the efforts made by the severe damage in the Homeland War and otherwise the situation in the economy is considered to be any help, the additional is welcome. I suggest that we help these two cities, but it's only 600 thousand kunas for the state budget, that they're insignificant funds, and for these two cities it's going to mean a lot. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26076	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 30 is also the same group of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26077	The amendment by the Government of the Republic does not accept for the simple reason why the proposed amount proposed by the gentlemen is 400 thousand kuna, as it was contained in the refund of income tax made from the state budget in 2004 and in 2005 the assessment will be even higher. So, instead of the Drageliqi Municipality budget, it was made out of the state budget to return 440 thousand kuna. Also, in favour of the Dragelic municipality, the state gave up income from income tax totalling 241 thousand kuna. So, all of this is almost 700 thousand kuna which the town of Dragelić received, in fact the municipality of Dragelić received direct assistance in 2004. The assumption is that in 2005, it will be even more, so it is far more than these 400,000 kunas that you propose with your amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26078	Representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26079	Thank you very much. Of course, continuing with the same rhetoric, it is areas of special state concern, four municipalities in the area of Brod-Posavina County, I am already moving on to the next amendments for which I also expect the Government to generously reject them by justifying them by means other than those of special state care. As it is indeed the first line of the front line, and as it is a region that has suffered badly, in which there is simply no economy, in which the conditions of life and work are due to the insufficient infrastructure from the water line and on, therefore, very bad, I ask that the government continue to consider, no matter how small the resources are to help these units to make life more sustainable. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26080	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 31 also from the same group of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26081	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for reasons why the funds allocated to the Municipality of Gornji Bogičevci and the Municipality of Okućani and made a return from the State budget instead of from the jury account, rather than from the budget of the units of local self-government far greater than what is proposed by the amendment. So, for example. For the Municipality of Gornji Bogičevci, the aid of 593 thousand kuna is foreseen with this amendment and the total amount of funds allocated last year from income tax and the return of income tax from the state budget was 670 thousand kuna and for the municipality of Okućani the total amount of funds recovered and the amount of money paid is EUR 1 million and 500 thousand. This amendment envisions an increase of 386 thousand kuna. So, already the interventions in the budget help that income tax returns from the state budget and the rate of income tax and profit tax is several times higher than this amendment that you propose and which is not seen in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26082	Representative Mato Raven, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26083	Thank you very much. You see, Mr. Minister, despite the great efforts you are making to help the area of special state care in the area of Brod-Posavina County, I will present one other information. The total fiscal capacity of all 26 municipalities of both the city and the county in the past year amounted to a grant, a government grant of about 400 million kuna. There are 175 thousand people living in this area, an economy destroyed, we have 175 km of borders, I don't know, insufficient infrastructure and insufficient conditions for life and work at all. To be more plastic, the city of Zagreb, as far as I know, only for the subsidisation of transport to ZET last year was awarded 450 million kuna, so the city of Zagreb gives ZET more than the total fiscal capacity of all 26 municipalities of both the city and the county of Brod-Posaviska. I demand a vote on this amendment no matter how much... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26084	Who's up for this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 32th also of the same group of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26085	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the reason that the Municipality of Stara Gradiška is indirectly paid out of the state budget for aid amounting to 624 thousand kuna in 2004 it will only be more and that is far more than these 400 thousand kunas you propose to this amendment. So these are the funds which, I repeat, is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 35. The law on the implementation of the budget is subject to the units of local self-government and these funds are not seen in the budget, therefore, these funds are totalling 624 thousand kuna and when it is added to this position in the budget, it is far more than these 400 thousand kunas that you are predicting as an increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26086	Representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26087	And yet still insufficient to restore the Old City Bar to the level at which it should objectively be. I don't mean that level of prison or those associations that many people here still mention. It's at the level of a decent man's life. No matter how much you invest, it's about a municipality located on the border, it's about a municipality in which daily, unfortunately, there's an eviction present, and if the state doesn't help, I'm afraid tomorrow we're going to have a much worse situation than we have right now. I'm asking for a vote!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26088	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 33rd Amendment of Honored Representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26089	Same explanation as the previous amendment. So I repeat the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2004 paid aid to the Municipality of Stara Gradiška in total amounting to 624 thousand kuna, this aid in 2005 will only be higher given the growth of income and tax growth, therefore, it is far more than what is proposed in this amendment and what is not visible in the budget. I repeat, local self-government units in 2003 had blocked accounts in 6, 7, 8, 9 months when they made a return to income tax. However, this did not happen in 2004 because of Article 35. The law on the implementation of the budget where the State gave up its share of income tax and where it took the obligation to pay taxes on income from the state budget to all citizens in the area of special state care, therefore, which should be returned from the budget of the units of local self-government in the area of special public care, both cities and municipalities and counties, has been returned from the state budget. So, the Municipality of Stara Gradiška received 624 thousand kuna from that base in 2004, and in 2005, you propose this amendment to 350 thousand kuna, far less than what the state will allocate from the budget for the municipality of Stara Gradiška in 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26090	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26091	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, I've really listened very carefully to you explaining all the reasons why you're refusing all these amendments. My Slavons would say this, it's nice to hear but no one believes you. It's like giving you an appetizer and not giving you food. Old Gradiška got $350,000 last year, and it's not much, and it's not much. Last year, 350,000 kuna was in the budget, and I asked with this amendment only to get what she got last year. [[/Intruder 600.]] To the old City Mr. Minister and the other municipalities in the border section, develop your economy. Old Gradiška, then, as well as other municipalities, will not seek help from the State budget. The old Gradiška is a municipality that had the youngest population structure since its return. This policy has made the birth of children more from the Old Towns now in Istria and around Croatia and the world than in Stari Gradiška. Mr. Minister, in this way, we do not worry about areas of special state concern. Don't worry. So you hear lipo, but no one believes you, and that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26092	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 34. National Minority Representatives' Club and SDSS's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26093	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept, but I would like to repeat, given that all amendments have the same characteristics. So, with the funds provided for in the Budget of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as I said in the previous amendment about the Old City and all other municipalities, she gave up income tax, income tax, income tax, she made a return of income tax instead of those municipalities and, unlike 2003, when these municipalities' giro accounts were blocked several months this year, it did not happen, and it is aid to these cities and municipalities in areas of special state care plus what is provided for in the Budget and in this amendment the Government cannot accept that the position, with the position of care for the exiles reduce that position, but I say if necessary, can always be reacted from other means.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26094	Representative Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26095	Mr. Minister, the amendment is about helping these municipalities to cover the expenditures that depend on practical survival. ... The costs of these municipalities are the type of help to kindergartens, but given what you said and for, and since we want to create an atmosphere in which these municipalities still want to help in this budget period, I am withdrawing this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26096	Thank you very much. Amendment 34 withdrawn. Amendment of the 35th Representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26097	The government cannot accept for reasons like I said in previous amendments. So we forget that the government gave up the share of income tax, totalling more than 450 million kuna for individuals in the area of special state care. In this year, the government also made a return of income tax instead of local self-government units in the area of special state care worth 355 million kuna. So in the 2004 Budget, the government indirectly placed on the area of special state care to assist these units over 800 million kuna. Likewise, in the area of special state care, in the area of Zadar County, the same funds that are, on the basis of paid income tax and income tax and income tax made instead of local self-government units, far above what is provided for in this amendment are respected for
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26098	Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26099	It's completely unacceptable. That's the explanation I gave you for lunch, I'm not giving you for dinner. Mr. Minister, aid to Zadar County has again been reduced by half compared to 2003, and in Zadar County, not only are municipalities or areas of special state concern, so that they may have to highlight it in particular. Although it really has nothing to do with each other. The amount was further reduced in 2003, in comparison to 2003 by 4 times and now further to half. So I suggest that this amount rises to at least the amount approved in the 2003 Budget when Ivica Racan was the prime minister and our colleague Shima Prtanjaca Mayor. Then Zadar County received 2 million 382 thousand and 600 kuna. That is why I call on representatives from Zadar County, and especially our former mayor, Shim Prtenjac, to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26100	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 36. The club of Representative Libra.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. I must repeat that in 2003 it cannot be compared to 2004 because in 2003 units in the area of special state care due to the return of income tax were blocked by gyro accounts for 4 months. And these units of local self-government could not function to prevent this anomaly from going into effect in 2004 to amend the Law on the Implementation of Budgets where the state took back the full income tax on the burden of the state budget and in the first 10 months a return was made to local self-government units totalling 355 million kuna, and for Osijek-Baranja County for cities and municipalities of 31 million kuna, and for, from County, instead of County 3 million and 700 thousand kuna. So a total of 34 million and 800 thousand kuna, as well as funds relating to the deduction of the share of income and part of the income tax and profit tax of 37 million kuna. So the total funds that the state indirectly directed from the budget in 2004, according to the budget of the units of local self-government in the area of Osijek-Baranja County, are far above the proposed funds of 50 million kuna as proposed by this amendment. I repeat the data on, in transfers to local self-government units in 2003 and 2004 are not comparable because in 2003 the return of income tax and profits was made from the budget of local self-government units, and in 2004 it was carried out from the budget, the state budget and with this basis to local self-government units in the area of Osijek-Baranja County this year remained on the giro-account of 34 million kuna. This basis has not been blocked for several months as it was in 2003, and the Republic of Croatia is also Article 35. Law on the implementation of the Budget of the Denied portion of the income, its portion of income from income tax and profit tax. So it's a total of 70 million kunas more than it was in 2003, and you're proposing this amendment 50 million kuna which is far less than what will be implemented from the State budget towards Osijek-Baranja County in 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26102	Representative Jozo Radoš, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26103	Mr. President, Mr. Minister explains the country's regular financial transactions towards Osijek-Baranja County, and here it is done, and in our explanation it writes very clearly. It's about establishing... the bank of Osijek, i.e. the creation of elementary spatial conditions for the bank to become operational. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This bank is of course important for the development of the economy or agriculture in that part of Croatia and throughout Croatia. It is written in the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme. It's a strategic project and it's time to start realising. Unless the government writes one thing in the program, and the other one does. I therefore request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26104	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 37. Club, MP Miroslav Korenika. [[Intruder: Mr. Korenik.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26105	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment for the simple reason that funds for decentralised functions in 2005 have increased by 12% compared to 2004. So from a billion and 50 million as much as it was in 2004 to a billion and 180 million in 2005. And these funds are allocated in accordance with the law by means of decisions on minimum financial standards, and therefore far greater means are provided than you propose with this amendment and part of these funds normally to go to the Varazdin County area.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26106	Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I understand you, Mr. Minister, when you claim the funds have been increased. However, so far, the Varazdin County in decentralised funds has been abolished and especially in that part because there are three special hospitals in which almost 90% of insurance companies from around the Republic of Croatia are mostly treated. According to the analyses we made in Varazdin County, for example for one user or insurance company, the average is 97.60 kuna for the Varazdin County. While, for example, in some other counties, I will only give one for example, the Deepwater Neretvan 113 kuna. This way you can see that Varazdinka County has been suspended because one of the insurance companies should be seen in Varazid, Vinkovici, Dubrovnik and Zagreb and treated equally. I'm afraid this way and this explanation of yours will once again be lifted by the Varazdin County. Especially when we look at how many beds are encased in health institutions, it turns out that for example 553 kunas per bed for the Varage County, for example for Bjelovarska Bilogorska almost 1930 kuna. By what you said simply, that it seems to me poor Varazdin County where the average salary is 30% lower than in other parts of Croatia, is also subfinished from its budget health care for all of Croatia. So I'm asking you to explain why you can't accept the amendment. The vote, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26108	The vote. Who's up for this amendment. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 38 MPs Željke Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26109	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment from a simple point of view which, as with previous amendments in this amendment, is not an accepted asset that has been received from the local self-government unit in the areas of special state care by the basis of a reduction in the proportion of income. The income tax So the city of Slatina in 2004, therefore the basis for these 11 months, received 268 thousand kuna. And with the basis of the tax on profits of 315 thousand kuna. So it's a total of 580,000 kuna, also amounting to over 90,000 kuna, was made a tax return on income from the state budget instead of from the budget of the city of Slatina. So when you add those 590 million funds to the funds, 594 thousand kunas to these 14 thousand kunas, then the aid to the town of Slatin will next year be over 650 thousand kuna. I repeat again, in accordance with the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of Article 35, with the basis of giving up part of the income tax and income tax, and the return of income tax instead of local self-government units in the area of special state care, more than 800 million kuna was allocated from the budget of the Republic of Croatia this year. And when we talk about the data in 2003 and 2004, then with the data that the town of Slatina received in the 2003 budget, you need to add 650 thousand kunas of these funds that are not seen in the budget. And then those funds are about 7.8% higher than they were in 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26110	Representative Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26111	Unfortunately, Mr. Minister, I must conclude that you have not read the amendment at all, because the explanation you have given is quite the opposite of what the amendment requires. In contrast to all the amendments that have so far sought to increase the funds, I ask that in the article support the hunger of Slatina amount of 14v thousand kunas, I repeat 14000 kunas be deleted. It is about the support your government is providing to citizens of Slatina, who, on occasion, is significantly less than the gross salary of representatives from Slatina, but the fact that you are giving such a shamefully low support prevents the town of Slatin from taking part in the county budget and obtaining a support that by the criteria would amount to about a million kuna. So because of these 14 million you don't want to wipe out, the 14 thousand kunas you don't want to wipe out the citizens of the town of Slatina will suffer damage. It's clear to me that the government can't help everyone, but I think it's essential that the government doesn't get away from the citizens of Slatina. I'm afraid this insistence on not accepting this amendment in accordance with HD's efforts to bring down good power in Slatina and that this is your contribution to show that this power in Slatina is inefficient. And inefficient and disabled to do even better than it does because of your alleged help that is not help but harm the citizens of Slatina. They don't deserve it. I'm asking for a vote anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26112	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 39 representatives of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26113	The government does not accept, for the reason it was in the state budget in 2005, additional means of balancing were provided. The decentralised functions, therefore, amounting to a total of a billion and 180 million, which is 12% more than in 2004 I will not say how much more than it was in 2003. In view of the dynamics of tax on income on the one hand, and the amounts of liabilities transferred to minimum standards, it is estimated that most of the funds will be realised that the funds will be sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26114	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26115	Well, I didn't expect the government to accept the amendment. But I'm gonna use this to warn you of a few facts. First of all, the government gave up the announcement of decentralisation of the state, which means there will be no strengthening of the fiscal capacity of the local self-government unit. So cities and municipalities won't get more money to manage on their own. Not only will he not get more money but the settlement fund, which is really 12% higher than in 2004, is just being provided for the 2004 minimum standards. I have also warned with the budget and with the rebalancing that a billion and 50 million kunas will not be enough for the settlement fund and this is shown in 2 data. First, it's the execution by 31.10. Ninety-three percent on the state budget. However, the income of local self-government units on decentralised funds from the settlement fund is between 75% and 80%, at the same time. So at least 12 months will be missing as it was in 2003. This settlement fund will only be enough for what was in 2004. And today we have a fireman's protest here in the market because it is under question how the firemen will finance themselves in 2005. It will be according to those standards that were close in 2004. And let alone the funds for the supply of equipment will be increased if the funds for the protection and rescue law are increased. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26116	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 40 representatives of Mate Arlovic. Ljubice Brdarić and Mate Gavrana.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot accept this amendment, and given the non-recognition of what units of local self-government receive from the state budget, I must repeat that from the basis of the return of income tax and the burden of the state budget, according to the law on the implementation of the state budget, in the last 11 months 2004, instead of the budget of the units of local self-government, a return of 355 million kuna was made from the state budget. It is the same as if the funds had received that aid because unlike in 2003, when they were blocked for several months, they were not blocked in 2004. So for the city of Ilock, 2 million 941 thousands were returned 223 kuna taxes per income instead of from the budget of the city of Ilock from the state budget. In addition, income tax appropriations are granted instead of revenue from the State budget, they are in accordance with Article 35. The budget law laid down for the city of Ilock totalling 2 million and 617 thousand kuna. The profit tax totalling 13,000 kuna, so 2 million and 700 million and 2 million and 900 totaled 5 million and 600. And it is far higher than what is proposed to this amendment. I'm just saying you can't see through the budget, and the state hasn't given up its claims in favour of local self-government units, that the state hasn't taken back the income tax. Then the city of Ilock would have no income on one side based on income tax and profit tax in total of 2 million and 740 thousand kuna. And also from his budget, 2 million and 940 thousand kuna would be returned. Instead of the state budget, the Ilocka budget would be lower by more than 5 million kuna at the moment, and you are proposing this amendment million and 500 thousand kuna. So, the funds that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, according to the law... No, to Ilock, and I'm sorry, I'm sorry, then 40 instead of 41. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right, I'm sorry. Here's an explanation for Amendment 41, so I'll say it now and then for 40. Excuse me. Excuse me. So, for the city of Vukovar, too. We need to know that as far as the city of Vukovar is concerned, there is a Law on the City of Vukovar and with the basis of the Law on the City of Vukovar, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, according to this Law, has made a payment of 25 million kuna from the budget this year. She also gave up her taxes, made a return to income tax, instead of the Vukovar City budget, totaling 15 million 972 thousand kuna. She also gave up income tax and profit tax in favour of the city of Vukovar totalling 16 million and 800 thousand kuna. So when you add all of this up, the denial and the return, it's 32 million kuna. In accordance with the Law on Vukovar of 25 million kuna, not counting investment in infrastructure, so only with the basis of these two laws on the implementation of the budget, Article 35 and the Law on the City of Vukovar, this year more than 50 million kuna was invested from the State budget of the city of Vukovar, far below what is proposed, far beyond what is proposed by this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26118	Representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26119	Mr. Minister, I have no doubt about the data that you have provided, but I will remind you and all of us that the Vukovar-Srijem County has suffered extremely severe destruction in the war, and then was also the victim of conversion and privatisation, and that is something that this county, especially the city of Vukovar, is recovering today. And it's hard. The fact is that the city of Vukovar is also invested in our county, but it is certainly not enough to reach the rest of Croatia, and even development is one of the objectives of this government or should be. These million and a half kuna will certainly not fulfil the task I have stated, but it would be a proof of good will and special care for that part of Croatia, for Slavonia in general, because we Slavons certainly did not deserve a motherly relationship. And I'm asking for a vote, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26120	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 41, also the same group of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26121	Amendment 41 refers to the city of Ilock. I explained most of this amendment as part of the previous one, but it is not too much to remind you that as far as the city of Ilock, the Government of the Republic of Croatia of the State Budget, in accordance with Article 35. The law on the implementation of the budget made a return of 2 million thousand kuna, and also as regards the tax on income and income taxes, 2 million and 700 thousand kuna. So 5 and a half million kunas that are not seen in the budget, but these are the funds that the citizens of the city of Ilock have felt very much, because they are far greater than those of the budget in 2003 when there was no return on the burden of the State budget and when the state did not give up its resources, its income income from income tax and income tax in favour of those units of local self-government. So, I repeat, only with the basis of these two laws, the Law on Budget Implementation, Article 35 and this one from the State budget this year, according to the units of local self-government in the area of special state care, has been rerouted over 800 million kuna, and specifically for the city of Ilock over 5 and a half million kuna, and your amendment is 1 and 216 thousand kuna, which means almost four times more funds than is required by this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26122	Representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26123	It is the means of ongoing assistance within the general state, meaning additional funds which unfortunately do not solve the problem and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26124	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. For a moment, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the gallery is accompanied by our work and is visited by the official Croatian Assembly of the National Republic of China led by the Vice-President of the Svekine National Congress of the People's Republic of China, Mrs Wuyonqimuge with representatives and representatives of the Svekine National Congress. Please welcome them. Amendment 42, MP Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26125	The Government cannot accept this amendment for the simple reason why the municipalities of St. Philip and James are not located in areas of special state concern and in accordance with Article 34. The law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 cannot be included in this position where Ms zastupnica has proposed. Therefore, it is not a local self-government unit in the area of special state care, and for this reason the Government could not place these proposed funds on this position for the municipalities of St. Philip and James.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26126	Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26127	Like this. It is about coastal settlements of Mr. Minister, the Municipality of St. Philip and James, there are 1,700 inhabitants, and it is about the settlements of Sikovo, Donja Rastanje and Gornja Rastanje. Part of the project was built and paid, and the rest was still made 3 projects for 3 building calls somewhere in the height of about 500 thousand kuna. So, I want to tell you that it's about coastal settlements of Sikovo, Lower Growth, Upper Growth. All in the war defenders. When they get home, they can't drink water. Mr. Minister, where there's a will, there's a way. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26128	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 43rd Representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26129	The Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot accept this amendment for the same reasons, because this is not about areas of special state concern. It is therefore not foreseeable at this position of the asset.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26130	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26131	If that were an explanation, then there would be no amount in this item. And since a million and 580 thousand 948 kuna are proposed, it is possible to raise funds in that position. In 2004, funds were reduced by almost 50%, a further reduction of almost 25% is proposed next year. 50% of these funds are mandatory transfers by municipalities, and this is important for many of our municipalities, especially those that have fallen out of the budget for individual projects. With its amendment, the government has now reduced the funding for 2 schools co-financed, referring precisely to the areas and children of the Roma population leaving the school. Regional development funds are being reduced by 25%. There are no funds in the budget that should have been provided by the sewer contracts at 25% of the annual spending. I think that's why you should return the amount in this position to a level of at least 3 million kuna as it was in 2003, so I also ask that vote be voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26132	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 44th Alenka Koshasha MP Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26133	Mrs. Representative is proposing funds for the town of Clay. I must point out again that in accordance with Article 35. The law on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia has taken over the obligation to return income taxes to local self-government area units and, therefore, from areas of special state concern, and thus has thus far been paid back to an amount of 356 million kuna in 2004. The same Article also obliges the Law to apply its share of income tax and income tax to units of local self-government, and therefore makes a reduction in the share of income tax and income tax, a profit of 450 million. So, a total of over 800 million kuna units of local self-government received this year from the State budget. Thus, among other things, the town of Glin, based on an increased share or a 100% share in income tax, received 3 million and 200 thousand kuna from the state budget this year compared to 2003. Also, with the basis of a return on income tax obligation based on tax returns by citizens from the Gline area in 2004 to 11 months, a return of 2 million and 846 thousand kuna was made. So when we sum up these 3 million and 200 and these 2 million and 800 then we get that the town of Glina in 2004 has received 6 million kuna which is far more than these million kunas that you propose in position, and also when you compare this data to how much the city of Glina from this position was getting in 2003, then you will see that the funds in 2005 are significantly higher than the funds that were in 2003. I repeat the indirect aid to the city of Glini with the basis of giving up part of the income tax and with the basis of the return of income tax instead of the town of Gline in 2004, there were 6 million kunas, and the assessment of these assets in 2005 was significantly higher. Thus, the city of Glina has gained far more from that base than is proposed with this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26134	Representative Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26135	Thank you very much. I thank Mr. Minister for this exhaustive explanation, perhaps even the citizens after that will be somewhat clearer, but this comment, and this comment, and this amendment, in fact, went very specifically to current aid within the general state, so to a specific position. I have to determine that in my position I didn't see that it was 6 million, even though I know that you, you interpreted to me which items it was from, you came from. But here we're talking about a million and 185 thousand 404 thousand kuna and de facto it's a reduction of 203 thousand 772, I'm only talking about this position, I'm not talking about what the city of Glina or what the city of Glina has achieved since receiving on income, etc., or these other legal acts. What I have to admit here really leads me to doubt, that it puts one bug in my ear, that it's actually expected here to come in the local elections to change power, and that de facto one budget is projected, predicting that it will be about another government, not this so far that has been in power since we know when. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26136	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to the D.O.D.'s position. Minister Berislav Roncevic. 45 amendments to the Club of Representatives of the HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26137	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The proposer proposes to re-position funds under the MORH financial plan, to reduce 32 million kuna international co-operation and to create a new position on the coast guard. MORH, the financing of its contribution in the intergovernmental coordination for the protection of Croatian interests on the Adriatic, has been ensured in the armed forces' functioning programme and therefore we do not accept this amendment, and 32 million kuna on the international cooperation programme are needed to achieve this programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26138	Representative Pejo Trječević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26139	Thank you very much. Mr. Ministers in the position of the international co-operation of the Ministry of Defence this year envisioned 20 million kuna. The execution to this day is 15.5 million kuna. Is that why you plan 52 million kunas for these funds next year, because we believe that the funds are as sufficient as in this year 2004? That is why we propose to place that difference in the new position of the Coast Guard, because by rejecting this amendment, the Coast Guard will not be able to carry out a minimum of what is prescribed by law, so I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26140	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Minister. This one single amendment is in the position of the Department of Defense. The interior ministry, Minister Marijan Mlinaric. Amendment of Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26141	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment, because we believe that, within the framework of the funds received by the Ministry of Interior, we have optimally allocated the funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26142	Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26143	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I can't accept that argument. In this amendment, I asked for a million and 800 thousand kuna to be allocated to Croatia's mountain rescue service for the implementation of the security promotion programme outside cities and public roads. The Ministry of the Interior is the basis of the Internal Affairs Act, meaning Article 24 of the founding of the intervention specialist units of the mountain rescue service. I would also point out that this ministry with the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service signed a long-term cooperation agreement on life-saving and life-saving operations and this agreement, Article 2 of the Agreement, obliges the Croatian Rescue Service to systematically implement measures to prevent and prevent accidents in non-accessible areas, while the Ministry of Internal Affairs undertakes Article 3 of the same Agreement within the framework of financial and technical opportunities to assist the activities of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. I do not need to mention that this is a public need which is in no doubt an increase, because the number of accidents and interventions is growing year by year, so if Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service does not provide any more quality legal solution with material conditions for action, I believe that there will be unnecessary danger and security as the strategic and long-term interest of the Republic of Croatia and ultimately as the right of citizens to effective protection and rescue and I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26144	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 47 representatives of Mate Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26145	The Government of the Republic of Croatia also does not accept this amendment. It's the same explanation. We believe that in the policy of building police administrations and rebuilding buildings we go to the regional priorities and that we are provided with funds in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26146	Representative Mato Raven, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26147	Thank you very much. Well, it looks like Mr. Minister is changing what government has to do with priorities. I don't know how many times you've personally been in Slavonski Brod, but I'll remind you that this building of the Police Administration in Slavonski Brod has been in priority for several years. Let me remind you, you and the public, the Brod-Posavina County has 175km of Sava River, so the border with Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina, 110km of highway, works by the Police Administration of Brod-Posavina County is working on several locations that make it difficult for both the employees of this police administration and the citizens. For your information, the police administration works in rented business areas that are not optimal for that part, it is a business tower of former giant Djura Djakovic, where it is really very difficult for employees, but also for the citizens of Brod-Posavina County. I was talking about what the fiscal capacity of Brod-Posavina County was, and despite this poor girl, we managed to secure building land for this police administration building. Over the past years and this year, funds for full project documentation have been allocated, a building permit has been issued, and I don't see now that the ship-to-Spain police administration is suddenly not a priority. As far as I know you have re-scheduled the priorities in Gospić or Sisak, I ask you when the Brod-Posavina County will get a new police administration building appropriate to what citizens are during the Homeland War... /The speaker turned off, so I learned to help me, of course it is not pleasant to hear the arguments. Unlike you, Mr. Minister, I expect a bar from my colleagues and colleagues in the Brod-Posavina County to support this proposal if not already the government. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26148	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. These were the only two amendments to the interior ministry's position. The family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, State Secretary Mr. Ivic. Amendment of 48th Representative Maria Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government does not accept this amendment because the 2005 budget provides for more than EUR 200 000 than for 2004 and will be sufficient to carry out the activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26150	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26151	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, it is true that 200 thousand kuna is higher than in 2004 but 5 million is lower than in 2003. My amendment consists of two parts, first of all, that the title of the item is changed from Youth Policy to the implementation of the National Youth Action Programme, it simply doesn't cost anything because so far we have managed to hear that buying a computer for an 8-member family is also a policy for young people, we have managed to hear other things but the youth policy in the Republic of Croatia is unanimously established in the national youth action programme, so that there are no future misunderstandings I suggest that it be called first, and on the other hand, the 2 million kuna will not be sufficient and this will prove the non-execution from this year therefore I ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26152	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 49th also representing Maria Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26153	The government does not accept this amendment either, for the requested activities the funds are secured for activities of 558 053 in the same amount as requested.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26154	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26155	Sincere President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, I am not asking for any increase in money, this amendment only suggests that one item that has been called for the new programme support for children and young people develops two items, such as this so far on support for children support for youth-oriented programmes, so that we can really see the Croatian Parliament, transparently what money is spent on, and otherwise the intensity of work and, especially in your ministry, that everything is kind of being added, blurry, knock-out is not good, so I ask you, therefore, to accept this amendment, which is not really required by any increase in funds but simply to name things that should be because only then will young people believe that you want to do something for them and not hide behind some fluid and young people entirely unclear projects. So please vote and repeat here no new funds are required.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26156	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't get the need for most of it. 50th Representative Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26157	The government does not accept this amendment since additional funds will be provided from part of the gambling income so that the total amount will be increased by 2 million and 725 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26158	Representative Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26159	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, I would disagree with you, I would be happy first if you spent those funds that are scheduled for this year but I note because of the extremely difficult situation in which there is a category of persons with disabilities, social exclusion, insufficient information about their rights at the level of state secrets, non-implementation of policies and measures in the national strategy, we know that we have 66 measures none of this year has been implemented. I think it's necessary to accept this amendment, by rejecting it from the government again sending a message we don't care about people with disabilities, we do nothing for them, we won't do anything like we're not in this year. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26160	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 51st Amendment of the MP also Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26161	The government does not accept this amendment since the resources provided are sufficient for the needs of the Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26162	Representative Vesna Škulić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26163	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, the secretary of state is sufficient when the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia held only 3 sessions this year and spent 8 thousand kunas, I am just asking for an increase in funds to make the Committee work its task or to create a policy towards people with disabilities, or to propose quality laws and thus make it a bearable life for people with disabilities. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26164	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 52nd Representative of the Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26165	The government does not accept the amendment, the funds provided in the 2005 budget are the same as in the 2004 budget and are based on the professional training and employment programme of Croatian defenders for the period 2004-2008 adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, the programme covers about 1000 Croatian defenders, 10 cooperatives and more than 20 companies employed by Croatian defenders each year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26166	Representative Ivica Pancic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26167	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. By rejecting this amendment on increasing the funds for the recruitment of Croatian defenders from 30 to 40 million kuna, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shows what was clear all along that it only cares about Croatian defenders in words or declarations. 30 million kunas were separated this year, it was separated last year and then it proved that the requirements were far higher, so this 10 million kuna increase would be enough for some 1000 Croatian defenders, which for their education, schooling, retraining and so forth. I think that should be the priority of every government, including this one. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26168	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. The 53rd amendment is also the representative of Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26169	The government does not accept this amendment since the planned funds for 2005 are planned on the basis of real needs for the implementation of the psychosocial assistance programme for victims of the Homeland War conducted by centres for psychosocial assistance and 4 clinical hospitals in the area of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26170	Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26171	Yes, these may have been the needs, the real needs this year, however, to remind me that in the procedure of adopting a new Law on Croatian defenders and, as a reason for its adoption, it is said that care for Croatian defenders should be improved. What this will look like in practice shows is precisely this position in the Ministry of Family, Defence and among generation solidarity where the amount of 15 million kuna is reduced to some 10 and a half million kuna. It is particularly interesting that for this amount of 15 million kuna all these previous years, the current Deputy Prime Minister and current minister of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity were then a representative of the opposition ranks, so I do not know what changed in these 11 months that the amount for psychosocial assistance for Croatian defenders and domestic war victims was reduced by 4.5 million, meaning some 35 to 40%, while 44.7% increased the air transport item for state authorities. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26172	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 54th Representative Maria Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26173	The government does not accept this amendment since the funds requested are secured for activities of 558047 amounting to 900 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26174	Representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26175	Mr. Secretary of State, we've already learned in your ministry that everything's coming together, so you don't know what you're thinking. The fact remains that you are removing an item of monitoring and promoting youth policy and you are completely forgetting that what has already been the obligation of the Republic of Croatia is to form a council of young people in municipalities and cities in accordance with the European Charter on the participation of young people in the life of municipalities and regions, and there are still some European Commission documents that need to be implemented in order to get closer to the European Union. You simply abolish that item as if you don't care about improving youth policy. Now it's just not clear to me on the one hand we have a guarantee, we're not going to take young people into the future without hope, on the other hand we're increasing funds for the Anti-intelligence Agency by 27 million kuna, and we're removing an item of millions and 200 thousand kuna to monitor and improve youth policy. I don't think this is good for young people, and it doesn't do well for a country where young people want to live well. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26176	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 55th also representing Maria Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26177	The government does not accept this amendment either, given that the funds requested amounting to a million kuna 643 thousand are secured on 558047 activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26178	Representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26179	Very interesting, Mr. Secretary of State, because that item 0058 has only 700 thousand kuna, and you've already listed three items that are apparently over 5 million that are secured in those 700. By your draft budget, you remove the item and abolish the activity of promoting social participation of young people, although today in Croatia we know that young people are running away from public life, that young people are running from politics. In the Croatian Youth Assembly, between 0 and 2% of young people have been continuously evaluated by experts who deal with the low representation of young people as a serious threat to the future of representative democracy in Croatia. And on the other hand, I repeat again, we're increasing the funds for the Anti-Fraud Agency in this country by 27 million kuna, we're not going to take these young people into the future without hope, and now we're abolishing the full resources to promote social participation of young people. I don't think you do that well for those young people, but neither for the Republic of Croatia, in which young people want to live well and quality. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26180	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Secretary of State. We are now going to the Ministry of European Integration. State Secretary at the ministry Marija Pejcinovic Buric. Amendment number 56. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. The Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot accept that amendment for the following three reasons. The first is that according to decentralised implementation, the body responsible for the implementation of the SAPARD programme in the Republic of Croatia is the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, not the Ministry of European Integration, which is only the coordinator. Secondly, in accordance with the needs of the Ministry in 2005, it provided for the preparation for the use of the said programme and the third in the 2005 budget, it is not necessary to provide for an additional item for the co-financing of the SAPARD programme, as the real use of this programme from the funds will begin in 2006 in which the European Union has also provided for the necessary resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26182	Thank you. Bozidar Pankretic on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26183	Thank you very much, President. I thank the Secretary of State for all three reasons, but it is evident, however, that when I said until recently we talked about the European Union and joined then we specifically stressed that pre-accession funds would be open to us. I think I can specifically say, it is said that these are the three pre-accession funds of ISPA, PHARE and SAPARD, which will be used in 2005, 2006, amounting to EUR 245 million. Unfortunately, you have now denied all of this yourself that it will definitely not be in 2005 because it is not intended for European integration either, means in your ministry or in the Ministry of Agriculture or elsewhere. We also know that neither the national programme that needs to be developed, which is a prerequisite, then the special agencies institutionally needed to do so. The amendment went in one direction only to help, it is the only amendment in this part of the ministry, so that we from the HSS Club show this pro-European orientation to help prepare Croatia for pre-accession funds, that in some way we rush this whole process, because without pre-accession funds and without that money unfortunately there will not be enough funds and especially when it comes to the SAPARD programme, especially when it comes to agriculture which unfortunately is not allocated enough funds in the budget. I am not satisfied with the answer and I am asking for a vote, so perhaps the Croatian Parliament will decide in favour of pro-European orientation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26184	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Secretary of State. It was the only amendment to the European Integration Ministry. Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Branko Vukelic. 57th Amendment of Representative Damir Cain. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26185	Thank you. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Namely, the change is proposed, the opening of new positions for... There is a special position in Umag and Rovinj under regular 51st promotion of corporate infrastructure amounting to 100 million kuna and within that position these zones in Umag and Rovinj will also be dealt with. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26186	Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26187	Well, first of all, we keep at the IDS Club that it's symbolic amounts, meaning a million kunas for the small business zone in Umag and another million kunas for the small business zone Rovinj – Kanfanar. Finally, the biggest investments may be in the Croatian economy at this time, not only in Istria, but in the Republic of Croatia are happening right in the Kanfanar municipality, where TDR is moving its plants from Rovinj to those locations. They have quite enough to finance these investments from their profits, however, if we want to help small entities in that area to come into such a position that they can also develop, these areas should be pre-arranged and therefore we propose that with the funds of the County of Istrian, Kanfanar, Rovinj, etc. and the Republic of Croatia contributes to the organisation of these zones. Finally, without the economy, there is no social stability, no development, no new jobs, and we hold it so much that the government would support these symbolic separations for these two small economies. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26188	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 58th Representative Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26189	The amendment is not accepted, requiring a reduction of 100 million kuna in the position of inciting or subsidising shipbuilding to increase the position of incentives and exports, this cannot be accepted because compared to this year, the shipbuilding has cca. 30 million kunas less in the budget for next year, and this position is foreseen on the basis of contracted ships and the dynamics of the construction of these ships in the following year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26190	Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26191	So I'm primarily looking for a fairer distribution of funds intended for export. Shipbuilding is aimed at exports. One third of our exports are shipbuilding. That shipbuilding is being invested somewhere around half a billion kuna a year. The following year, the funds are projected to be more than 600 billion. My position, therefore, is that other branches of our economy deserve the support of the state. 8 million kuna export incentives is too little, almost nothing. And we have branches that are in great need of state aid and that are large exporters, which I mean primarily textile, wooden, leather industry that have so far been unable to get any help, they could have gotten some loans, but they're simply too weak even if these loans were returning. So, I ask that these funds be redistributed and that the funds for exports... so in a fair way that all benefit from it, and not just some. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26192	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 59 representatives of Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26193	The government doesn't accept the amendment. It does not require an increase in funds, but rather a division of positions into three sub-positions. I will just say that this position is being encouraged by the target groups of society when it comes to entrepreneurship just eating this target group that are proposed by the amendment, so both beginners and women entrepreneurs and young entrepreneurs. And the entrepreneurship-enhancing programme clearly defines all projects that encourage entrepreneurship. This one position opens up the possibility that the same interests of individual target groups and funds are thus directed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26194	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26195	Mr. Minister, if that's what you said, I really don't see any reason why you wouldn't accept the amendment and call their real name? I mean, so far we've learned, the implementation of the budget has shown us it's your document, that you haven't done anything up until now, that these credit lines for entrepreneurs and beginners of women and young people are actually not used at all, that's what you sent us in the budget implementation. On the other hand, when we look at that famous web. The portal open door, the first project to be praised by the government are beginners, even if it's an old project, and it's not any new project of this government. I have to admit I'm a little worried if you don't break it up like this, which you're going to brag about next year when you haven't done before? So since it's not about any increased resources, if it's about actually calling things their name, I'd ask you to accept this amendment, and then we don't have any conflict at all in that part. It's such a very simple and elegant solution. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26196	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 60 representatives of Radir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26197	The government does not accept this amendment. It proposes an increase in subsidisation funds to encourage and build an entrepreneurial zone. The funds provided for next year are an amount of 100 million kuna compared to this year, where these funds are 55 million kuna, this is a significant increase. We predict that with these means, we will be able to keep a quality track of all entrepreneurial zones in our counties, cities and municipalities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26198	Representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26199	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for your reply. I certainly insist on this amendment, for the simple reason why I would like this Parliament to clearly and hardly decide on the support of the technological park that will be in the city of Varazdin, which will be of particular economic and scientific importance for the city of Varazdin County and beyond. And it represents a pioneering venture in Croatian proportions. If anything deserves support, it's tech parks. It is related to entrepreneurial zones, but it would like to be more precisely defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26200	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 61 amendments to the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26201	The government does not accept this amendment. Namely, the planned amount of 30 million kuna is sufficient to pay all pension income on the basis of physical damage and compensation for other people's assistance and care in 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26202	The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ljubica Lalić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26203	I thank Mr. President and Mr. Minister for expressing my regret and astonishment. Because these days Croatia is stuck with posters where it reads among other things "More pensions in 2004". Of course, those 73,000 pensioners who have pensions below 500 kuna. The 60 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not have any income, but have absolutely no income and are not able to work on it. That you will also keep your promise made in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal of the HSS Act on National Pensions and later on the proposal of the Social Pensions Act of the SDP Club. You supported this idea, you heard it nicely, so you expressed concern for that part of the Croatian people, so that now here we are, by making a budget for 2005, actually revealing everything that you have assured us. You're not socially sensitive. You don't mean helping the poorest. And I think the time has finally come for this truth to be, and I am not surprised that 63% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have such an opinion about this government as it does. And I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26204	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 62 Club of Representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26205	The government doesn't accept the amendment. In fact, it is still necessary to go into procedure towards the Government and according to the Parliament to amend the Law on Professional Rehabilitation, the employment of persons with disabilities, which provides for a permanent system of financing and from these amendments to the Law will be provided with the resources which, in addition to these funds in the budget for this purpose, will be sufficient for the next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26206	Representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26207	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. This year, according to what the budget says and kuna has not been isolated from the 18 million kunas planned for the financing of professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people. It's something that's absolutely incomprehensible. And that's why next year's plan comes to a reduction in that amount, of course we can't accept it. We are pleased to have such a law done, if such a law is done, then it would be good for the implementation of that law and in the budget to provide for some means, so that the law could be applied. That's exactly what we want. I think it's time for us to pay much more attention to that category of our citizens, what they want, because it's back to regular life activities, not just social policy. And that is why it is very important for this Fund, i.e. employment and professional rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. It is inexplicably incomprehensible that this year's kuna has not yet been spent on such an important purpose that it is actually talking about that the relationship with persons with disabilities continues to be based mainly on social approach, and not on this modern approach of their full involvement in regular life and regular activities, and thus they gain and trust in themselves, the belief that they are a valuable and full member of the community, etc., so all that, when these coins are not being spent, is not really the case. I therefore request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26208	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 63 Amendments of Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26209	The government doesn't accept the amendment. It proposes an increase in the funds for the construction of entrepreneurship zones from 100 million to 2 million and 400. I repeat once again in this budget for next year is projected to increase from 55 to 100 million kuna for business zones and for all our counties and from these funds that are sufficient will be able to monitor these business areas in the area of the Varazdin County.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26210	Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26211	Well, I have to admit, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, that I am not satisfied with Mr. Secretary's explanation, because based on his explanation, there is no guarantee that the Varazdin County will be followed by money that is sufficient to be implemented and move on with business areas. This is especially because the Varazdin County was recognised last year as the county in Croatia that made the most of it to encourage craftsmanship, small and medium entrepreneurship. In order not to depend on the will or whim of one man, I ask the statement of counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26212	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much, Minister. Ministry of Culture, State Secretary at the Ministry of Jadran Antolovic. Amendment of 64th Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26213	The government doesn't accept the amendment. In the part of the amendments relating to Sanac and Churches in Brijuni, we note that according to the Law on Public Needs in Culture and the Law on Cultural Councils, all programmes are previously registered on a public call and then the profession decides on the support of each programme and as regards the rehabilitation of the Church in Oprtnje, it is already in the protection cities programme for, the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26214	Representative Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26215	Dear gentlemen, it is clear to me that the battle for the budget was lost three or four years ago when, in the former term, we replaced that qualified majority with the common majority, so we have an absurd situation to adopt the budget in St. Peter's forest by a qualified majority and this one with 100 billion kuna to the common majority. However, it is not the Church of Bujam but in the Brijuni but in the Bujams, there seems to be a mistake in copying it. It's about the restoration of the Church in Oprlje, also with a million kunas. It's about two historic buildings in Istria. And bearing in mind that the County of Istria, or rather by other means, is truly under quotes “not helping”, or that these are not otherwise represented in the budget of the Republic of Croatia for next year, we suggest that the Church in Bujam or Oprtlje be directed by the sex, million kuna. Finally, Istria County in the next budget, meaning 2005 is represented by only 30 million kuna. With the County's contribution to the Istrian Republic budget in mind, we believe that this is insufficient when capital investments are on Wednesday and I ask the Parliament to accept such proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26216	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 65th Agent Mate Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26217	Amendments are not accepted. Since it's the restoration of the Church of St. Ivana Baptizer, in Sibinj, is already listed as a cultural heritage protection programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26218	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26219	I could, if I could, Mr. President, and in the name of the public, get information on which amount it is because, according to my information, half an hour short before this session, the Church is in a very derelict state, next year should celebrate the two hundred thirtyth anniversary. You, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, are extremely well-known in what state it is. It's just that at this point it's almost impossible to perform religious rituals because the ceiling, the bushes from the ceiling, and it's just about the safety of all those who come to the church. These two million kunas, as far as we're asking for this amendment, are simply necessary for immediate recovery. I know as well as you that it is a monument of culture but since nothing has been done so far in an operational sense, I'm afraid when the funds are provided that the Church will no longer be that it will collapse on its own. It's weird to me that we're just getting a declaration of support here, not the actual one. And as it is otherwise to judge the Ship-Posavina County, we are left with only faith in ourselves and faith in God because obviously we are not getting anything from this government. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26220	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 66th Representative Radiir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26221	The amendment is not accepted, since the adaptation of the castle is also in the Ministry's protection work programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26222	Representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26223	... which is the note of state property the most quality that we have in Croatia in this area... [[Specially enabled.]] He's completely devastated, the castle that's in that arburetum really has no hope of staying a stone on a stone anymore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The question is what the state is going to do and whether it thinks and wants to take responsibility. This is the minimum amount that is predicted here and I expect to be recognized, now that property legal relations are finally cleared to recognize the need to intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26224	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 67th MPs Ljubica Brdarić, Mato Gavran and Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26225	The amendment is not accepted in view of the fact that according to the Law on Public Needs in Culture and the Law on Cultural Councils, all programmes must be previously registered on a public call and then included in the Ministry's programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26226	Representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26227	Thank you. The Gudan municipality is extremely poor and has a parish church that is qualified for worship but is not finished. What has been done so far has been done by the gifts of the very believers who live extremely hard and have given as much as they can. Regardless of what you are right about the Council, the competitions and everything else, this can be resolved with a little goodwill because it seems to me that the spiritual restoration should be more important than the renovation and equipment of the office in the ministry and I am still asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26228	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. The 68th Amendment, also the same group of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26229	The amendment is not accepted since it is the restoration of St. Therese also included in the programme of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26230	Mr. Mato Raven, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26231	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I hope Mrs. Maria Byte is now well heard what Mr. Secretary of State said and that this beautiful church in the city of Požega will be over this year. I can't just get any other information from you, I don't know why secrecy. If you've secured the funds, then this amendment is too much, but since there is no saying here, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26232	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 69th Amendment of MPs Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26233	The amendment is not accepted since the restoration of the sacrificial monument of the Holy Trinity is also included in the programme of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26234	Mr. Mato Raven, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26235	If we could get an answer when the reconstruction will finally be completed, I think the primary citizens of the town of Požega, and then everyone else who comes to that beautiful city would be either on the road or deliberately more than happy. I know it's hard for you to say the answer to this question, but judging by the expression of your face, it seems to me that it won't be settled for a long time, so I'm also asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26236	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much for not getting the necessary majority. Amendment to the 70th Representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26237	The amendment is not accepted. As regards the restoration of Bishop Yuri Dobrila's house, it is necessary for the programme to pass the legal procedure and be declared in accordance with the regulations and as regards the rehabilitation of sacral objects in the Gračište, they are already included in the programme of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26238	Here's Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26239	Dear Mr. Vice President, so on the bishop himself, the people of Yuri Dobrila need not say anything, his character adorns a 10 kuna bill. However, I would like to mention something else about the town of Pazin, the County of Istria has joined the purchase of his home, and it is now normal to find certain funds for the rehabilitation or fitting of that house where Juraj Dobrila was born and we suggest that the Ministry of Culture be included in the project. As for the restoration of sacral objects in Gračisje, Gračisje is one of the most picturesque places in Istria. This municipality has done so much in its... This municipality has done so much in its arrangement for the last 4, 5, 6 years. It is mentioned enough that by 1994 they did not have a single metre of water in their area, and soon we will be guiding the area of the municipality. But it's a mountain-mounted area. Their funds are limited without donations from major city centres in Istria, Istria County, Croatia. It simply cannot be developed and therefore we hold that it would be opportunised that the Ministry of Culture with part of its own resources also contributes to the restoration of not only sacral but also other objects in the area of this picturesque Istrian place. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26240	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of MP Marin Jurjevic No. 71. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26241	The proposed amendment is not accepted because we cannot accept that the funding for theatre and musical stage activities for the sake of the proposed investments is reduced and we note that the investments in culture in this budget that is proposed has just increased by 56%.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26242	Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26243	The main thing for me is that you have an understanding of this, so for the adaptation of the House of Youth building in Split, you will be able, from this investment programme that has grown by 50%, to separate a million kunas so that this polyvalent youth cultural centre will finally be placed in such a function because neither Split nor our county have anything like that, and it is also a building of the Croatian House that should be adapted as a concert hall of the city of Split that does not, it does not meet its needs as regards concert halls. So I appeal to you that from these funds for investment in culture if you do not want to shrink here, it is proposed that a million kuna for each of these buildings to separate from these funds a million kuna. I don't care where the money comes from, the main thing is to put it into operation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26244	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment number 72 of Mr. Radiir Cacic's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26245	The amendment is not accepted since the arrangement of the Vindi cave is already in the programme of nature protection within the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26246	Here you go, Mr. Representative Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26247	Thank you very much. I must admit that I haven't noticed, and once I've re-analysed that this programme is in the Ministry of Culture programme, and control of this statement will be easy to implement during this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26248	Thank you very much. Are you looking for a vote? ... Who is this amendment? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 73 of MP Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26249	Here, the amendment is also not accepted, given that the proposed programme must be in accordance with the Law on Public Needs in Culture and the Law on Cultural Councils, previously passed the procedure and the basis of the prescribed laws... Involved in the Ministry's program. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26250	Mr. Attorney Walter Poropat, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26251	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, this amendment is being withdrawn from year to year. Matija Vlačić Vlačić Ilirik has owed Croatian culture and I think that from the position for capital donations from which 5 million kunas are foreseen 200 thousand kunas for the reconstruction of facades and woodwork on the building, the birth home of Matija Vlačić Ilirik really are no means that you would accept such an answer. Of course we're going to insist on it again and every year we're going to get back into it until we get into a situation where we as a people of our own who have put us in charge, and the people are recognized especially by culture, that we have no interest in them to say and that we don't have a chance of worth 200 thousand kuna for such things. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26252	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 74, by Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26253	The abovementioned amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as before. Since such projects need to be reported with appropriate documentation in order to be able to valorise at all how much resources should be provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26254	Mrs. Jagoda Martic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26255	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In some ways I understand you, and I accept that explanation that you have given is, in fact, reasonable, but I must also point out that the city of Makarska unfortunately does not have one space, one institution in which cultural events could be held. Since New Year's, we are left without the only cinema because that space is returning to the church and therefore the city plans to enter the building of a cultural centre. I do not need to mention how much such an institution would mean for the citizens of Makarska and for the total offer, the tourist offer of this city. I am asking the Government to take this into account in some way and regardless of what you just said, the competition and so on, with little understanding that we have a plan of this kind of co-financing, to build a centre like this. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26256	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. The amendment did not receive the necessary majority of votes. The 75th Amendment of Ms. Alenka's MP, Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26257	We do not accept the proposed amendment since the proposal for a state budget is balanced and that the reduction of the position outside the division of the Ministry of Culture, we do not accept an increase in the position in the division of the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26258	Thank you very much. Ms. Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26259	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary of State. Your explanation is absolutely unacceptable to me. It is about the capital facilities of culture in Sisak-Moslavina County which, as you know, the space is largely under special state care. So there is no own means to accept the restoration of such significant cultural objects. The renovation has begun. It's taking a very long time, it's going very slowly. Practically these minimum assets that are invested are definitely insufficient for these facilities to be restored and their recovery to be completed. How about two capital facilities in the city of Sisak? So it's about the Old City of Sisak and it's about the big one, I have to tell you, we still have to remind you that these are objects where one Croatian opera, the first Croatian opera, was first performed. So it also has a semantic significance, so it is not only important for Sisak-Moslavina County but it is important for Croatian culture at all. I ask that you at least accept something from this amendment, that at least some of the funds be provided for the restoration of these capital facilities because this county has no funds for it. I'm looking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26260	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? The amendment didn't get the right majority of votes? The 76th amendment of Mr Davorko Vidovic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26261	We do not accept the proposed amendment for the same reasons as the previous ones and note that exactly the position of investments in culture, in this budget for 2005 has increased by 56% compared to 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26262	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26263	I find it difficult to understand this by looking at the position of protecting immovable cultural goods has been permanently falling. 2003. 140 million, last year 100 million, this year 50 million. The introduction of a monumental rent cannot be compensated for the lack of that money that is needed otherwise we will fail these key historical monuments and documents. ... No, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What I'm telling you. That's right. I just checked on what's actually going on with this. So it's also about the Old City of Sisak. The town of Sisak certainly has absolutely no possibility of having it on its own cost or the county of Sisak Moslavinak to resuscitate the facility. With this money with the 6 million kn we've been looking for he's definitely brought into office and he'll be able to earn and maintain himself and surely for the next few decades we'll have one monument then arranged.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26264	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 77 amendments by Mr. Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26265	We do not accept the proposed amendment because the completion of the city library in Karlovac is already in the programme of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26266	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. I can believe this, of course, for the word. The budget in that part is so non-transparent that you can't see it. It is a project that is of paramount importance for the carlovac parish not only for the town of carlovac jeer it is a central library for the entire county for district libraries in other places. Also central libraries for the Slovenian national minority in Croatia. The city of Karlovac built this library in the 1970s in a form which today, of course, was no longer satisfactory, started some project documentation production actions and spent some money on the part of the city and the county. Somewhere in the height of about 5,000 kn, the additional funds that would be needed in the coming years are tens of millions of kunas. The city has already installed in its budget a donation, i.e. a capital donation from the Ministry of Culture in this amount that I have proposed in the amendment. Since you can't see it here, I'm asking you to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26267	Who's up for this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. I thank Mr. Secretary of State. We are moving to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, or amendments relating to this ministry. Here you go, Minister. First amendment number 78 of Zvonimir Mrsic's MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26268	The government does not accept the amendment, for reasons I am sorry, but there was no prepared investment technical documentation necessary for construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26269	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26270	Dear Ministers, as far as I have information, there is prepared documentation for the construction of the Master's Waterway and there is a prepared documentary for the first phase of the construction of the reserve and the start of the construction of b iological purifier on the island of Vir. You know what the problem is, there are over 10,000 housing units. It is a village the size of a middle city and it is absolutely certain that a secondary network can be financed from the accession fee. However, capital projects such as the construction of a masteral water pipeline, the construction of reserves and the financing of wastewater treatment devices could not be financed because there would then be an ecological catastrophe if each innovation, i.e. wastewater was poured into the sea. But it could even be conditional if there's a record of giving these funds. As far as I know, as far as I have information, there are project documentation. Or she's definitely on her way out. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26271	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? The amendment did not receive the necessary majority of votes Let's see here those present at the Zagreb High School student gallery and their teachers professors. 79 amendments to Agent Damir Cain. [[Applause]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26272	The government does not accept this amendment because this investment is realised by the Croatian Waters and local self-government funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26273	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26274	When the water supply is in Istria, all investments are indeed realised only by means of local self-government. About 500km of water installations were laid in ten years in the district area of Istria exclusively by means of local self-government. The truth about the Butunega state has helped Istria. However, this is about the funds we are looking for for for the municipality of Lanisce. The municipality of Lanisce is a municipality of special state concern. It is usually the largest municipality in Istria, the most underdeveloped municipality, with the lowest population. For example, during World War II, a municipality that suffered the most in Istria, was burned in the area of more than 1,000 houses in one day of 44 years. We're finally back to the present. It is a municipality bordering the Republic of Slovenia, 60 km of its lines bordering Slovenia. And it remains to be built into the area of the municipality about 30 to 40 km of water installations, and what is most important in this amendment, and thus the set of solutions, that water reaches Jelovica more precisely to the border crossing of Jelovica. The border crossing without water doesn't work. Although I care far less about them than about Jelovica getting water. So it's about the time of the Water Jelovica, and then from Jelovica to go further towards that border crossing. And it may be one of the few border crossings that won't have water. If we want to valorise the whole of Ćicarija and tourist Valorize, I think that one such amendment and most of the opposition in this House should be supported. Thank you. And please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26275	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 80 representatives of Mate Arlovic, Ljubice Brdarić, and Mate Gavrana go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26276	Thank you very much. The government does not accept this amendment for reasons that there is no need for this amendment as the means to co-finance the defence against the fight are already foreseen under the item to encourage agricultural production. Let me also say that according to the Law of Defense against Fight, the Government has adopted a programme and a plan of defense against fighting for 200.5 years. That the amount of funds needed to obtain the necessary repromation, racquets and the like is equal to 31 million kuna. And that it will be in accordance with the law and the sources of funding will be in accordance with the law and that the financial means for defence since the 2005 fight will be fully secured.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26277	Mr. Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26278	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, it is pleasant to hear that the Government has finally accepted suggestions from the field and that in the coming year sufficient funds will be provided and that the defence will act in a timely manner and that the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia will be effective. In this short time period that we had available to the budget, obviously we missed this item, so there's no reason to vote. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26279	Thank you very much. The amendment is not withdrawn. We're moving on to the 81st Amendment of Alenka Košima Chichin Shain, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26280	The amendment is not accepted, from the glare that the funds for the needs of the state ergel of Lipicanos Djakovo in this year increased by one million kuna compared to actually increased by the 2005 budget proposal for a million kuna compared to 2004. And that amount of financial resources is consistent with the necessary ergels.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26281	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Koshasha Chichin Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26282	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I have proposed by my amendment an increase of $400,000 in funds if you'd read the amendment, you'd see that I'm not in favour of Ergel Djakovo, but that I'm also in favour of other indigenous breeds from the Ministry of this position. In particular, this applies to the autochton breed of a Posavia horse which, as you know, is very important in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County, so I would also ask you to support other than the ergel in Djakov from the budget and other indigenous breeds. Thank you very much. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26283	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to amendment 82 of Mr. Zeljko Ledinsky's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26284	The government does not accept this amendment because the funds for the Djakov capital projects are sufficient in the planned amount in the draft budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26285	Mr. Ledinsky, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26286	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Looks like you haven't read this amendment of mine in your ministry. I asked to assist breeding work in accordance with the Law on cattle farming that was brought into this House, related to breeding work in the Croatian sows, and cold-blooded and Lipizan, and I would pray in the future when we answer at least then say what it is for, right? Thank you. And please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26287	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're moving on to Amendment 83 of the House of Representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26288	The government does not accept this amendment. I would like to stress that the rural development model is something that this ministry will continue to develop, that this year, in 2004, we spent about 22 million kuna on this model. The proposal for a 2005 budget provides for 30 million kuna, and I would like to stress that in 2005, we must prepare an institutional framework for the implementation of all rural development measures. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, respecting the needs and strengthening of the rural development model in this context and in the interior of the Ministry, has made certain changes and that rural development has been set up as a special administration within the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26289	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club, Mr. Agent Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26290	I thought the minister would surprise me, so he accepted the amendment, but apparently the radio television had good information. So, I was prepared not to accept it, and this is obviously a sign of ignorance of the conduct of agricultural policy, of general failure in the new trend of European policy and of the return policy. If we remember the agricultural budget at which he grew in 2001, 2, 3 stopped in 2004 and now 7% increased reportedly, then it is a clear and obvious sign, it does not count on farmers, it is agricultural secondary activities and your rating is obviously evidence of that agricultural policy. I regret, Mr. Minsitre, that you do not accept the help we give you and the support we give you, because rural space is not a rural space because there are peasants just staying there, but it's a special habitat, of those intellectuals, and 93% of the space in the Republic of Croatia and these crumbs that the government has given, gives, believe me, that demeaning that space, that neglect is even faith, culture, customs, and if we said that we want to go to Europe, the kind we are, the Croatian peasants, then you should fight for a bigger budget. Unfortunately, the trend created by selecting large and dying small is your agricultural policy which obviously leads nothing, but here, that's our reality. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26291	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you. We move on to amendment number 84 of Ms. Ljubice Lalic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26292	The government does not accept this amendment, because this Ministry is leading and has a significant trend in increasing this item so just let me show that a billion 452 million were spent on the same item in 2003, that in 2004, a billion 771 million will be spent on the same item after the redistribution made with the other items of support. It means that this ministry has significantly increased compared to the previous period of this item and increased funds for direct promotion of agricultural production. And so, I can't accept any other stories that talk about some reduction in incentives, because this year's increase in this item is about about 300 million kuna, and then I don't understand how this year there's been a reduction in the payment of incentives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26293	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26294	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, it seems you haven't even read this amendment. My amendment refers again, of course, to the defense against the fight that is financed from the funds provided for in the incentives, and I regretted that they have taught you in Zagreb to cover it up, because it is not very characteristic of our environments, but good. Mr. Secretary, as far as your claim is concerned, it's an increase in incentives that I'm actually surprised. Here, now I don't know whether to trust the people or to trust you. The people say they didn't get the incentives, that he got them for the harvest 40% less, I know that there are quotas for beef production, for incentives, so on the item, the promotion of the cows of the museum, 158,000 last year was paid 139 million kuna. This year 70 million kuna will be paid. It's not a development program. And how is the defense financed from the fight? I was really convinced that after this year, after the damages you witnessed, you would accept this amendment, so that in time, in order to ensure a defense against the fight, we would not be affected by what happened. However, there is obviously no understanding that on the one hand we have information from the Ministry and the Government that is not confirmed by people, because I can't call my peasants every day, asking when the incentives will be paid, why so much is paid, why the harvest was only kuna, the price of wheat was, and the incentives 40% less, the blue oil is 80% more expensive and the repromatter is 80% more expensive, of course they can't answer those questions in the same way as you do when they don't have a basis. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26295	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're moving on to the 85th Amendment of the HSS Prosecution Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26296	The government does not accept this amendment because this Ministry and in this budget have a trend in increasing this item. Next thing I want to point out. The entry to encourage agricultural production in the continued work of the Ministry and in further proposals for the budget will not increase significantly. In the system of increasing support in agriculture, other support models will increase significantly in the coming periods and this year. For these reasons, the Government cannot accept such an increase and again, as well as how much was paid in 2003 and how much was paid in 2004, these are the exact indicators and the obvious difference in the cost of incentives, direct incentives compared to last year and this year is cca 300 million in favour of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26297	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26298	Thank you very much. Here we go, Mr. Minister, as we enter into one illogicality. We are not only increasing the item nominally 5%, these are facts, and we are providing resources on other items to develop faster. We previously discussed this, that we did not provide rural development in the way that we should, and direct support is respected to the previous government, that the inefficient system of fostering agricultural production is your word, and do not give results to the corresponding funds. You signed off on one bad work as your work now masterpiece to ruin agricultural production and you did not find it appropriate to increase other items and say how to work. So we're in such a dissent that it's simply our people that what you say is 300 million, and thanks to us and the obligations we created for you, that it's left on yours and on yours and said the wheat is paid 70%, for cows, I'll count it for you. Of the 139 million you predicted 70, you didn't give the kuna. I'm sorry, the peasants didn't get it. Out of 450 million you've reduced the quota to 400 million, 50 million for milk won't come. That's what you said. ... Please, you said it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You have not yet paid for this for the first three months, you have reduced all your obligations to a second probably calendar year and you will boast that this year's debt will be summed up in the second year and paid. So we're in such a disparity that we don't really know who's telling the truth who's lying, and now I'd just like to hear and explain to people with less money they're getting, you give them more. How if they weren't, I'm interested in it now and if you could get it on that, to that question answer I'd be pleased, but this clear my dissatisfaction continues, I believe that you should be dissatisfied, but obviously you're too pleased. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26299	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We are moving to the 86th Amendment of Representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26300	The government does not accept this amendment because this proposal that you have proposed is insufficient to encourage construction... I would also like to say that, on this basis, much higher financial resources are provided within the investment support item, so there is no need for this amendment. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26301	Thank you very much. Mr. Korenik, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26302	Thank you very much. Well, it's clear to us in Varazdin County that these funds aren't enough. The Varazdin County has started and implemented a restructuring of agricultural production where fruit and vegetables are increasingly produced, and we wish that, in the next period, together with economic operators and with the help of the ministry, not only the refrigeration industry but also the refrigerator. I would like to hear what guarantees are that and what amount would be for the Varazdin County to set up a wholesaler and a refrigerator, and in that case I am willing to withdraw my amendment, but I would like to hear what guarantee and what amount, because unfortunately we do not know anything about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26303	All the demands that are justified for the construction... of the freezer will be financially followed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26304	Since there are no guarantees, I would still be begging for this House to be declared.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26305	You can only change your mind and accept the amendment. Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you. We're moving to Amendment 87 of the House of Representatives Club HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26306	The government doesn't accept this amendment because we're keeping it unrealistic and let me say a few words. We understand the need to strengthen the investment support model, that's something this ministry is working on. I'll also give you concrete indicators. In 2003, approximately 13 million kuna was paid on investment aid, leaving about two thousand applications that were not processed. In 2004, all requirements will be processed on the basis of investment support and cca 75 million kuna will be spent. For 2005, 100 million kunas of investment support and plus 40 million kunas of the same investment support are foreseen to be accompanied by the development of the bovine programme. This government is responsible and will not bring and will not promise anything to someone and to agricultural producers that will not and cannot accomplish as opposed to some before us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26307	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club, Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26308	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, unlike you, those before you have greatly increased those items and introduced them, but here specifically to answer... Can I finish, Mr. Vice President? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you. I must say that this investment support measure is one of the most transparent measures. It wasn't spent in 2003 because it was started in 2003. I must say that by this measure, in one transparent way, all those going into investment are given 25% of the grants. The intensity of our amendment was to supplement the law and expand it. We all swear very much that we need to invest as much in agriculture as possible to welcome the entry into the European Union as possible. When we get to concrete things like this, there's no money. That is why this amendment is going in the direction we do not have enough time and we must support every investment in agriculture not only to remain this 25% but also to increase it if we need 50% of the investment, because that is the only way we will be able to raise our agriculture to the level of competitiveness that needs to be given our entry into the European Union. That's why I don't think it's unrealistic, but it would certainly be spent all the 200 million kunas that have been proposed here, so I believe that all MPs will support me, so I'm asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26309	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the right majority of votes. Amendment number 88 of the MPs of Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26310	The government does not accept for a reason, the proposal is not accepted to add a new position to promote the environment and the regulation of agricultural land, since the land-regulating position already exists and is foreseen for a certain financial amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26311	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenika, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26312	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I must remind you and warn you that in the implementation of the budget for this year and what we have received with the state budget, that by November 10th of this year, no single kuna in the state budget has been spent on such purposes. In the area of Varazdin County, the average property is about two hectares of eight scattered units and the Varazdin County has been co-financed since 2001 with 400 thousand kunas. The financial impotence of the Varazdin County is well known since the average salary is 30% lower than it is in other parts of the Republic of Croatia and so far it has been used by the Varazdin County on its own by about 850 farmers who have rounded 1500 hectares of land. With this proposal accepted, unfortunately I see that the government does not accept, in 2005, around 1166 hectares of land would be rounded up to about 5 thousand and the number of parcels would be reduced by 5 thousand and 800. I do not see guarantees given so far, to this year's budget implementation that and next year we will do something more significant in this area, and therefore I ask for a statement from the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26313	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to the amendment of Agent Ivan Kolar, number 89. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26314	The government does not accept this amendment and we stand at the stand if the financial resources are used in the right way, that these are quite sufficient financial resources. I would like to point out that a time has passed when such funds in the agriculture ministry's budget were significant, and as an example, in 2003, when the budget under this item cost 105 million kunas used to subsidise the purchase of wheat in the year when Croatia did not have enough production, when there was no need for subsidisation of ransoms to allow for the export of a circus of 80,000 tonnes of wheat, i.e. 2003. So to welcome the state in 2004 without wheat and importing the new 80,000 tonnes and the price difference in exported and imported wheat is almost 100%. The time has passed or so that the time has passed when the state gives a refund and subsidizes some purchases, and then allows those who used the subsidy to buy that product to significantly increase its price, so the domestic wheat price was on the domestic market, the domestic wheat co-financed by the Ministry with 12 June was kuna and 40. This is what the Ministry promises farmers that no longer on the market will happen that the goods produced will have no one to place but we have sufficient resources to intervene on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26315	Thank you, Agent Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26316	Mr. Vice President, I'm protesting because I didn't write that amendment in that sense, and the minister, if he had any respect for someone, then he needed it in a different way than I did. And I'm asking you to protect me in the future because my intention for the amendment didn't honor you, and you've now given me a letter which is why I don't owe you a debt. And I recognized this kind of support as useful and for farmers one sure measure, and I suggested an increase and it didn't mean that it had to go in this amount but to some realistically possible, you claim it has a lot of resources. I'm just reminding you that such a measure is no innovation to you, that you haven't invented anything new that all governments have implemented in this successful or less successful way. I eagerly expect your model to be successful, I'm not looking forward to it... that it could be from another government in the same way you said it wasn't good either. So in the future as you answer directly to the amendment you speak, do not honor me because my intention was noble, helping the Ministry to at a time when it is less price to subsidize the product, to settle that producer price ultimately we agreed to do some things now you claim that it is not good, and the same time you do. You buy yourself points, other people's funds, state resources, you become the biggest now I answer to you, the biggest buyer of wheat on which you now intend to earn on farmers' shoulders, that's my thinking, because the embarrassingly low price was a kuna that didn't even give an economic calculation. That's nice of you, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26317	Who's up for this appointment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Mr. Kolar, in his previous argument, the amendment went very broadly, and you did, when you explained it, so don't mind the minister, which he goes broadly, so you repeated it again, and it went wide again. We'll be tolerated, then don't switch when you're acting the same way. Thank you very much. We're going to Amendment 90 of Representative Luke Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26318	The government does not accept this amendment to increase the planned amount to the buy-in position for... fishing is not necessary since the funds are in line with the 2005 plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26319	Thank you. Mr. Luka Roic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26320	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, here's Mr. Minister. I believed I'd have better luck than my colleagues from the green field when it comes to the blue field, but obviously it's not. In fact, I can assure you that the Adriatic Sea is our sea, in great danger given the pressure that exists, so this amendment should be very carefully promoted so that the funds we have proposed from 2 million kunas are not more than anticipated, in fact, sufficient for this to be done because it is about buying out the benefits of gambling fishing. I argue that the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy in this area are unsatisfactory because by November 10, 2000, out of the estimated 1.8 million kunas, no kuna was spent, when the Ministry began the initiative in 2003, we supported the purchase of privileges for gambling fishing because it is necessary to reduce this pressure on our sea. It is estimated that around 700 to 750 carts catch about 5,000 tonnes of catches and that makes this situation unsustainable for a long time, so I believe that this amendment has been inappropriately accepted, because this measure combined with other measures can greatly help Croatian fishing, so I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26321	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't get the votes he needed. We move on to amendment 91 of Mr Miroslav Korenik's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26322	The government does not accept this amendment for reasons because there is no need for this amendment, I would like to point out that these angers can be ensured through the rural development model that there is also a cooperative and association department in the rural development administration, meaning where you can run your programme for the winery cooperative. For these reasons, I believe that there is no need to specifically allocate and specifically plan funds for this purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26323	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenika, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26324	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I must point out that the Varazdin County, by the active area of the vineyard in Croatia in third place, has also had a general production and winemaking programme since 99, and that new vineyards with 211,000 706 vines have been established so far. There is a need for a wine association, and I will withdraw this amendment given that Mr. Minister has managed to convince us, and we will run towards the Ministry for the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26325	Thank you very much. The nice amadnance has been withdrawn. We are moving on to the 92nd amendment of Ms. Ljubice Lalic's MP, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26326	Similarly to the previous one, the Government does not accept this amendment for the reason that we keep it completely unnecessary because the budget provides for funding for co-financing and construction of all... refrigerators and for co-financing and construction of wholesalers, meaning significantly higher funds or funds to be used. I would like to point out that in this year we have had two tenders for the construction of... freezers, that there is a third tender in preparation and that unfortunately we have not been able to spend all the intended funds in that position for these reasons we have come to another variant, that these funds are being allocated from investment support funds so that we do not have to redistribute the item later, through the construction program... the freezers we have indicated what and how much financial support can be built... the freezer and we are perfectly clear if we want to develop fruit growing, and we also want to increase the areas under the orchards and apples, that we have to have secure and needed infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26327	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26328	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, obviously, one non-transparent item that couldn't be read from the budget. I don't know why so many items are hiding. Last year, the item was planned with 8 and a half million kuna, unfortunately not implemented, was not carried out because the tenders were not published in time and could not use the funds. After all I've heard and these arguments, all I have left is that you should believe. But here's the thing, Mr. Minister, one idea in my head, how we've heard a lot of nice roars through this explanation, I suggest I take the tambourine, and you harmonica, so let's go sing to the Slavonian people, and we'll give them more luck by singing a song of lying village, lying people.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26329	You can have the harmonica, too. I don't need a harmonica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26330	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Moving to Amendment 93. It's an HSS rep club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26331	The government does not accept the amendment for the reason that the funds provided for in this purpose in 2005 are in line with the adopted National Programme for the rise of fish production and consumption in the Republic of Croatia and we consider them sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26332	On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26333	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you, with sowing and discomfort, remember those scenes when large quantities of blue fish caught by fishermen unfortunately end up in the sea, are thrown into the sea in a country that has 8kg of fish per capita consumption instead of 16 other Mediterranean countries. Why is that? I'd eat a large number of people, citizens of this country, unfortunately there's no market. In order for there to be a market, we need to introduce fish wholesalers. Our neighbouring country of Italy has 60 major markets, Croatia has none. Why isn't there one? Well, you can't make a wholesaler if we don't have a goal, if we don't have an intention, and if we don't want to invest in those wholesalers. 10 million kuna is one symbolic level that needs and works for the wholesale market, but also for the message, and also for those who think today about allowing foreign legal persons to hunt in our sea and in such a way as not to end up on the Croatian market but to end up where they are likely to achieve a higher price. But it's going to get bigger because we don't have an organised market. So this is the story of the market, this is exactly the story of a national programme that talks about the production and consumption of fish that is just relying on the system of wholesalers that we started in 2001. Unfortunately, the process is slow, but he's already given half the results, and it's a pity it hasn't continued and Which didn't work out until the end, at least as much market as we have at this point. [[Intruder: Continued.]] So, Mr. Minister, that's exactly why I'm having these pictures that are still in my head about how a large amount of fish is thrown into the sea, that's why I thought you'd be a little more sensitive, and I see that you're a little bit more now, but... Please vote. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26334	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to the amendment of MPs Mate Arlovic, Ljubice Brdarić and Mate Gavrana, 94th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26335	Thank you very much. The government does not accept this amendment because we hold that these financial resources will be sufficient for the activities we will be carrying out in 2005. I would like to point out that this is one of the strategic projects of this government, that the contract has been signed and that it is intensively working on the Master's irrigation plan, that we have funded all the activities undertaken this year at the level of the counties related to irrigation projects, including co-financing and one retention that will also be in the function of the flood defence but also for the needs of irrigation and for the known, whoever wants to irrigate. So according to the Master plan that will be completed sometime at the end of the second month and all planned activities, we will have the opportunity to finance all these activities in 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26336	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26337	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, it's really nice to hear that irrigation is a strategic project of this government and you yourself, but the strategy is if I've heard correctly and we remind ourselves that it's brought to the rank of Malta not building highways. If it's to judge by budget rebalancing and by spent resources and by the plans you now have, I'm afraid that not only from irrigation, but not from highways will it be almost nothing. I will remind you, as we have said down the road, only through one example from the area of Brod-Posavina County. In 1996, the County Assembly adopted a programme for the construction of a water economy irrigation plan for Brod-Posavina County. To this day unfortunately because of the lack of financial resources, because alone, down the road, I have pointed out in what financial situation we are, we are not able to launch this project more significantly. As a result, only in last year because of the severe oscillations of damage in the area of Brod-Posavina County resulting from a dry period of 77 million kuna. This year, unfortunately, since the flood, the damage is 44 million kuna. We either have too much water or we have too little water. Never enough. Therefore, we have proposed this amendment to increase these funds by calculating that it will be spent somewhere with half, if at least it is judged by the present. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26338	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Let's welcome another class VII. High school from Zagreb which is here at our session... We're moving on to the 95th Amendment of the House of Representatives Club of the HSS. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26339	The government does not accept this amendment for the reason we estimate that the funds are provided, that they will be sufficient for these purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26340	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club, Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26341	Well, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, it'll be enough if we don't spend it and we don't plan it, so if we don't go into this in just a certain declarative way, we're going to start projects. Last year we left a certain piece for this year to launch these projects. The projects didn't start for whatever reason. But hope was that this year, the next year, those funds would increase. I wouldn't further explain here what land planning means, how many years ago, almost a decade ago there was no commission, a dive, so you know it, don't be, it's reality, no, and if we want to run some things and there's land that we can prepare with. After all, these projects have shown he has it, but he needs money to invest. We managed to transfer certain regulations now to the Ministry of Agriculture to run these processes etc. I don't know what you're writing, I don't understand, I don't... But I just want to convince you that it's the ministry's duty to increase these funds rather than reduce them if we really want to launch this project. If it's just that, it's not in the interest of this government, it's certainly going to evaluate someone else and I think the grades already exist about it all. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26342	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the right majority of votes. We're moving on to amendment 96 of Ms. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26343	The government does not accept this amendment, because these investments will be realised through the Croatian Water Management Plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26344	Thank you. I would only ask you, Mr. Minister, to tell me exactly which page, where is this position in the Croatian Waters Plan? In that case, if you know that to me, I will respond to the amendment, and otherwise I have to tell you that this is about 4.5 thousand people who don't have water, and it's only two million kunas to make project documentation. Only please if you can tell where in Croatian waters this exists, I will withdraw the amendment immediately.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26345	Thank you very much. There's obviously no further data. So I'm putting this amendment on. What? Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. Let's move on. Amendment number 97 of the same representative Alenka Kosic Chicin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26346	The government doesn't accept. And the answer is the same that will be realized through the Croatian Water Management Plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26347	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26348	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I would also like to ask you when you will be able to find that item in Croatian waters, so that you can somehow let me know where it is. It's about something else, though. This is about one section around the iron, so there's a water line that's already been built once, that's the documentation that's existed since 92. One part has been made, done, the small part has not yet been done and it is only about completion. Again I say it's a population that doesn't have drinking water in the 21st century. I demand a vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26349	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. ... We move on to Amendment 98 of Mr. Josepha Lek's representative. [[speaks off, don't be heard]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26350	The government does not accept this amendment, for the reason that no investment-technical documentation has been prepared.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26351	Here you go, Mr. Representative Joseph Leco, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26352	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. We know that the government has already decided everything. But please give us some illusions that we are deciding in Parliament, so since it is a very important comparative advantage of the Republic of Croatia in front of the countries of the European Union, which is the ecological purity of water and river, investment projects have already been done in municipalities in the rally, and only a symbolic amount of 2 million kuna is required, and the consequences are not symbolic but very significant. I beg you nicely, allow the Parliament to have the illusion of deciding. Give me that 2 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26353	Let the Parliament decide. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. No amendment accepted, no required majority. We move on to amendment 99 of MP Nikola Vuljanic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26354	The government does not accept this amendment, for reasons and keeps it unnecessary, because the funds are secured through the position K65 0034 protection of water and seas against pollution.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26355	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26356	Well, Mr. Minister, I don't really understand why the clear positions that were in the last budget are now clouding some general position? If that's true that it's contained in some larger item, then what bothers you with this amendment? It is a very useful project that is involved in the treatment of wastewater, in fact the River Režnica, which is later poured into the Koran and which in today's situation is actually polluting all the city baths in Karlovac. Also in danger are water drains that supply one 60,000 citizens with water. I know you'll answer the same question to my next amendment. But if so, if you have things really contained in some larger item, what bothers you to specify in one place that citizens know clearly what will happen? Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26357	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the right majority of votes. We are moving on to 100 amendments of MPs also Nikola Vuljanic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26358	Thank you very much. The government doesn't accept this amendment with the same explanation, and you yourself said you knew the answer, so here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26359	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26360	This amendment is about protecting against the flood of the suburban settlements of the town of Karlovac, an action that has been going for many years, just the other day a building that protects a settlement has been completed. It would be a great shame, not only financially, but every other one if this action didn't continue. I say again, if this is contained in a larger item, I see no reason why the government is bothered by this amendment. I also appeal to representatives from that area who are here in the Assembly on that party to join such a request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26361	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the right majority of votes. I have a brief one notice. The chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality, Mrs. Gordana Sobol, called for the Committee's session to continue on Wednesday 24 November at 13:30 in Josip Jelačić's hall (ex centre). Let's move on to 101 amendments of Mr. Radiir Cacic's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26362	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26363	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26364	The government does not accept this amendment because we stand at the point of view that the resources provided will be sufficient on the basis of the work plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26365	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Radimir Cacic... [[speaks off, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26366	Thank you very much. Of course, the projected funds cannot be sufficient, since a million and a half kuna is foreseen for Žumberak, Chabar, County of Istria, Varazdinska Zagorje and Međimurje. And this project alone is worth four. So it almost makes no sense to comment on it. In short, the past government formed a Fund for Alignment and directly transferred to local self-government and regional 4 billion kuna for the first time in history. This government has reduced the Fund by 10% this year in the budget, while centralised financing, has raised subsidies from 4 billion to 5 billion 270. By the end of its projection, it predicts over 6 billion. Instead of decentralisation, we are witnessing strong, strong centralised Croatia, there is no possibility for local self-government to decide on its strategic projects, its development projects, so it goes directly against the European Union's intensity, against the modern development policy of the last government, and we are going back to where we unfortunately were. If we are not already able to give local and regional self-government the opportunity to develop their own projects, to think about their own infrastructure, about waterways, sewers, roads, schools, then at least to make that minimum effort to give them the space to implement it through these budget items of the Central Government. Here, once again I ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26367	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. We move to Amendment 102 of Representatives Mate Arlovic, Ljubice Brdarić and Mate Gavrana, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26368	Thank you very much. The government does not accept this amendment, for reasons, because we stand at the point of view that the funds provided are sufficient. And I would also like to emphasise that this programme is being implemented from the original resources of Croatian Waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26369	Thank you very much. Mr. Mato Raven, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26370	Thank you very much. I hope that your answer, Mr. Minister, will satisfy the citizens who are thirsty, who are waiting for this water line to finally become operational. Based on the plan you offered us next year, 2 and a half million kuna were planned for this pipeline, and in 2006 and 2007 5 million and 100 thousand kuna. For these reasons, they considered it necessary to speed up the water supply next year in order to allow citizens to reach high quality drinking water as soon as possible. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26371	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. We move to Amendment 103 of the same representatives: Mato Gavran, Mato Arlović and Ljubica Brdarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26372	Thank you very much. The government does not accept this amendment for the reason that in this year, investment and technical documentation will be drawn up and prepared for the completion of this project and will also be prepared for the implementation and completion of the Eastern Slavonia regional water pipeline that will be presented, with sources, with the resources needed to finance the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26373	Thank you very much. Mr. Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26374	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I don't want to hurt you by any chance, but despite your coming from the county that's next door to me, so east of Vukovar-Srijem, I have to admit that you're extremely ill-informed about the region's Eastern, Eastern regional water line. At the request of the Croatian Waters, this study was made up by the company, it does not matter which in 2003, 2003, and according to the study, investment is heavy 671 million kuna, not to speak lipe. This year, 6 million kuna were planned for the project, which will say that the citizens of Slavonia, because this is about 3 counties; Osijek-Baranja, Vukovar-Srijemska and Brod-Posavia County, can get water from this dynamic construction in 112 years. So there's no need to say how many generations it takes to welcome drinking water. For these reasons, as this investment study I'm talking about is said to be a project, that the project is planned to be implemented in 7 years, we felt it necessary to submit this amendment because Slavonia is unfortunately extremely rich in water, but there is when we don't need it and there is water that we don't need. This is about drinking water. The largest source of drinking water is located in the area of Brod-Posavina County, it is the Gundinci station, and if, and Gundinci are located, I don't know, the Gundinci village is only a kilometer away from the station, and they don't have drinking water. They have to drive in tanks. For these reasons, or for these reasons, I ask you once again, and I especially appeal to this left side which today is only physically present, colleagues and colleagues, to engage with the spirit and to help the regional waterway of Eastern Slavonia finally come into realization. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26375	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the votes he needed. We move to Amendment 104 of the same representatives: Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić, Mato Gavran. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26376	The government does not accept this amendment for a reason because this project is implemented by means of Croatian Waters, the Rijeka-Zagreb Auto-roads and the Primorje-Goranska County.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26377	Representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26378	Thank you very much. So the same analogy as I had previously said by the draft budget for this year is foreseen for this project 2 million kuna, 4 million next year and 4 million and 200 thousand kuna in 2007. We believe, or felt that water was life and that as soon as possible these citizens of the Republic of Croatia should be in a position to have drinking water. That's why we asked for this increase, Mr. Minister. Of course, praise is worth the support of other economic operators who invest in the construction of a water network. But apparently it will not be built in the near time period. I'm looking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26379	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to Amendment 105 of MPs and Vice President Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26380	Thank you very much. The government does not accept this amendment for a reason because no investment-technical documentation has been prepared in an acceptable volume.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26381	Thank you very much. ... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26382	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, the reason for submitting this amendment was the fact that, in my knowledge, there is a project "Regional Waterway East" within the Croatian Waters. So that the project is made and that at the same time it is part of the country or part of Zagreb County where 60% of the county is not covered by water. So this eastern waterway is a highway line that would help to gradually tap those 60% of the county that doesn't have drinking water today, where people don't have drinking water, to cover it, to start covering water and supplying water, which, of course, I don't need to stress is not just a standard of life and some minimum decent standard, but even an assumption of economic development if we say that 60% of the county is not covered, and the project exists. Within Croatian waters it is made and therefore it should only be placed, it is already made, it should only be put into operation. So I ask all colleagues, at least those who come from Zagreb County and sit in this Chamber, especially colleagues from a position that could significantly help us or help that county, when they have not already made an effort to propose any amendment to this budget to at least support what would mean for Zagreb County a shift on a project that "de facto" already exists. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26383	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're moving on to the 106th Amendment of Ms. Ljubice Lalic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26384	Thank you very much. The government does not accept this amendment with an explanation similar to what I said about one of the previous amendments. What do you need to do? One is the existence of a plan and a project, and the other is the creation of necessary investment and technical documentation. And these funds that are now foreseen here, they are just designed for those purposes. The second thing, we know exactly what the total investment of the Eastern Slavonia regional water pipeline is, and we are also preparing the first phase, which will be somewhere in order the investment size of the Circa 350 million kuna, but these are extremely significant and large funds and this project will be managed through, and from the funds, certain loans and in, together with other ministries. So, in this year, there are funds to produce the necessary investment and technical documentation and this year a programme of implementation and completion of the Eastern Slavonia regional water line will be established.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26385	Thank you very much. Madam Representative Ljubica Lalić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26386	I thank Mr. Vice President, so Mr. Secretary, I'm not satisfied with the explanation and I have to go back in fact because this isn't what we're talking about and this isn't the first time this has happened. That's what you've been telling us now as an explanation justifies the justification of our amendments since last year. Because last year when we put in the amendments, we said the funds were insufficient and that actually the shovel couldn't get into the ground. You assured us that the funds would be sufficient. Now here's what we're trying to do with this amendment to cut that deadline for the investment. What bothers us, it's a terrible problem, and that's the unequal priority of all strategic projects. This project, which is the mouth of the strategic project, should be a strategic project for the whole of Slavonia directly depends and people's health You know that the largest part of this project or the good part of this text is just being brought to the Croatian Posavina. Here I must again point out that Croatia Posavina is an endangered non-frapathic area. Mr. Minister, our people are dying, we're burying them. It's still suspected it's water. Now, by stopping this project, or by not giving it the same primate as the other state projects in Croatia, we are actually going directly to the lives of our citizens. And that's why I can withdraw that amendment, and I have to ask for a vote. Because I simply can't go back among those people who are far more than our colleagues in the Parliament who are aware of the conditions in which they live and actually on one shovel down there is water, just have to be purified and allow these people to have drinking water. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26387	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. We move to amendment number 107 of Mr. Zvonimir Mršić's representative, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26388	Thank you very much. The Government does not accept this amendment because the increase in the amount is not in line with the already established redistribution of funds within the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26389	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26390	I'm a little surprised there was no paperwork there, so you couldn't accept it and there's really no money as far as I can tell. But it's impossible to believe that you can't increase the amount or at least leave the amount of poop already last year for Koprivnica Crossing County. If you know that the minimum availability to the public water supply system is over, only 30%. And there's a built master plan there's a building permit there's an investment study, all of it exists, but now it's finally shown that you don't want to give money to build a water supply system in municipalities and cities of Koprivnica Crossing County. There will therefore be no masteral water supply towards Djelekovec, it will not be according to Ferdinandovac, according to Gornji Rijeka according to Kost Podravski towards St. Peter Orehovac, according to Peteranc. There won't be a new water catcher in Koprivnica, there won't be any new reserves in the city of Djurdjevac. Just because you don't want to redistribute the money. Obviously, it is more important for this government to irrigate fruit than for citizens to have access to the public water supply system. Because you've had ten million kunas on irrigation this year, you haven't even taken advantage of the kuna. For 2005, you plan 30 million kuna for irrigation, and this year either for Koprivnica Crossing County 5 million kuna to build a public water supply system you are now reducing it to 3 million kuna. With 3 million kunas, you can make 2 km of master's water supply. It is not enough to combine two municipalities with the Master's Waterway, let alone ensure that citizens can have water in their households. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26391	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the votes he needed. We move on to 108 amendments of Mr Bozidar Pankretić's representative, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26392	Thank you very much. The Government accepts this amendment for the reason that something could be realised at all is not accessible to the investment until an investment technical documentation in an acceptable volume has been prepared. And here, unfortunately, we have a case just like that. I'm very sorry, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26393	Thank you very much. Mr. Bozidar Pankretić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26394	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary, we don't exactly have such a case here and I can confirm it to you by the parliamentary representatives who are here and who are familiar with it. I will only tell you the details of this, the City of Vrbovec and the neighbouring municipalities of Rakovec, Presika, Gradec Frkaševac and Dubrava, are unfortunately in such an area where they cannot have their own water supply sites, and we started building the regional water pipeline Zagreb East 18 years ago. Fortunately, it opened in 2004 and completed almost 20 years of investment. Now that he has arrived in the town of Vrbovac, he should be extended to these municipalities that I have listed. That's what the paperwork was built for. For next year. According to Rakovec and Gradec, and for that amount, we need these funds. I wouldn't say what it means if we finished an investment that lasts almost 18 years. That now people who are almost 2 km from Vrbovac still have no water because only the regional water supply came. We are aware that the municipalities will further spread that water network themselves, but right now we need to get her to them. And these 10 million kunas are meant for it. If there's a real problem with documents like you said, I'm willing to give you all the documentation and you're certainly going to accept this amendment. Because it will certainly be a great help to build that people finally get water. Because I have to point out that the jets are already limiting the factor, not only for drinking there, but for the overall economic development, especially those municipalities around the Vrbovac City. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26395	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. We are moving on to 109 amendments by Ms. President Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26396	The government doesn't accept this amendment, I regret to say take this opportunity one more time. Because unfortunately there is no possibility after your discussions to answer that for this amendment or for this investment no investment technical documentation has been prepared in an acceptable volume. These are the views of people who deal with this profession and who know the problem. We can list and I respect the needs of development and water supply and separation as much as possible and there must be necessary investment technical documentation to begin with.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26397	Thank you very much. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26398	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Somewhere you refuse the same amendments because you say, we've provided funds for this particular purpose which you say is missing here. So those explanations really don't hold water and we're running out of water, the water's gone. I must tell you that just bringing water from the direction of Zadar to the island of Pag is necessary, you know what capacity is, which happens every summer there. And if that wasn't what you said, it's the irrefutable fact that the water line got all the way to the Razan. And so there's still a little bit left to get to Pag. And now you're going back to the beginnings that perhaps somewhere in one of the amendments of a similar nature may hold water. But not here. And that is why I call once again on my colleagues from Zadar County to vote in favour of this amendment. Don't let it happen to us and this summer what happens every summer on Pag repeats itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26399	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. We're going to the 110th Amendment of Mr. Radiir Cacic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26400	The government does not accept this amendment for a reason because we believe that this amendment is not necessary at all and that the honourable Mr. MP is probably not sufficiently informed, but this position will be realised from the funds of the Croatian Water Management Plan and from the state budget from the division of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development so that this is something that is realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26401	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Radimir Cacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26402	Thank you very much. Of course, since I personally signed contracts and did these projects, trust me, there's something I should know about. So if it happens to be realized which I honestly doubt, because that's not how things develop on the ground, it will be my special pleasure to confirm it next year. Thank you very much. But if not, of course, I'll warn you of the fact that it wasn't realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26403	Are you looking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26404	Yes, of course, I think since, as in the case of Miserables, this is about a Petrian, things are according to Mr. Secretary O.K.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26405	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26406	I'm just asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26407	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. And another amendment, 111 Mr. Representative Radiir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26408	Thank you very much. The government does not accept this amendment, and I will say it again openly, this is about the inability to provide financial resources, and that is, unlike those we could not accept for reasons why there was no investment and technical documentation. Here we have already redistributed funds within the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy and we cannot accept further redistribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26409	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Radimir Cacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26410	Thank you very much. So, judging by all this, nothing from Misery, nothing from the Petrians, there'll be nothing from St. George. I certainly warn that the government is not only developing a decentralisation process and not opening up opportunities for municipalities and cities and counties to go into development projects themselves, but also to prevent them. This particular budget in that part of the debt right continues to retain a one-third reduction for municipalities, cities and counties, which brings us into one paradoxal position that out of 52% of the total public debt in Croatia, only one percent of them are local administration units and self-government and regional self-government, so 51 is a central state, only one of what we have from self-government, all of these municipalities, cities and counties, and on that one percent have made restrictions again and by one-third we have reduced the rights that were during the last coalition government. In other words, if you are not already giving funds to gentlemen from the central budget, please give the right, at least the possibility that those municipalities and cities will enter the development projects themselves and assume their responsibilities. This centralization that we are witnessing in Croatia is unfortunately tragic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26411	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I thank the ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, we have crossed one-third of the amendments, two-thirds of the amendments remain. We interrupt the session and proceed at 15.00 hours with Amendment 112. It's 13:30. The MPs will proceed with the session. We begin with Amendment 112, Representative Radiir Cacic. I'm asking the Minister to make a statement about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26413	The government does not accept this amendment. The increase in the amount is not in line with the already established redistribution of funds within the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and the water economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26414	Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26415	Mr. Vice President, I ask that the quorum be determined, because there is obviously no quorum, and we are deciding on amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26416	We also work when there is no quorum, and since the vote is at stake then please see if it's a quorum or not a quorum. Look at the quorum. I'm asking that MPs be called to the assembly, because it's being voted, otherwise they might continue not to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we can continue. We have a quorum. 112 amendment of Mr. Radiir Cacic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26417	The government does not accept the amendment for the reason that the increase in the amount is not in line with the already established redistribution of funds within the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26418	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Radimir Cacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26419	Thank you very much. You can see for yourself that it is another amendment concerning infrastructure, sewerage for St. Elijah's Community. Of course it is necessary, and it is almost 7,000 people who do not have that minimum health standard, and I am not talking about all the other reasons for that amendment. It reminds me exactly my neighbor to mention maybe it's not a small matter. All the CNS amendments together, and over 80 of them are only 55% of the budget. So the CNS amendments did not go with a view to fundamentally changing, strategically changing government positions and government policy but wanted to contribute, to improve on some items, or to do some things more precisely with a certain hope, although apparently not excessively realistic, that such a correct and objective approach to the budget, since we are not leading policy as an opposition, but we can only give certain suggestions, be understood and accepted by the Government. So all 80 amendments are only 55% of the budget. This amendment is one of those that solves the infrastructure situation significantly in one of the relatively large municipalities for Varazdin, and I ask that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26420	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We are moving on to 113 amendments, Mr. Anton Peru's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26421	Thank you very much. The government doesn't accept this amendment for a reason because we're keeping it unnecessary. The funds for this purpose are provided through the position K650034 protection of water and sea from pollution and resources from the management plan of Croatian waters for 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26422	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Anton Perusko, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26423	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, if that were the case, I would gladly withdraw this amendment. Last year you replied that this device will be financed through Croatian Waters. It is an investment of 14 million and 400 thousand kunas, which I have asked for as funds from the budget donation to the investor town of Pazin because the former Racan government has accepted the fact that the town of Pazin is located in a specific water protection area where waste water is being delayed directly into the river of Pazincic's sink and threatens the life of nearly 70,000 people in Istria, and the town of Pazin cannot provide these funds and, therefore, by letter of intent in early 2003, the Racan government accepted from the budget, i.e. from the Regional Development Fund, provide these funds as a grant to the city of Pazin as an investor. Therefore, if you too had business opportunities to answer me whether these funds were irrevocably allocated to the investor city of Pazin, I would very much like to withdraw that amendment. If you can answer that, otherwise you'd ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26424	If it's on track, is it accepted or partially accepted? Nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26425	Mr. Vice-President, I have made it clear that from what positions the funds are provided and also that they will be built with funds from the Croatian Water Management Plan for 2005. I think I've made it clear enough to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26426	Since I'm not convinced, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26427	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't pass, he didn't get the votes he needed. We are moving on to the 114th amendment of Mr. Radiir Cacic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26428	Thank you very much. The Government does not accept this amendment for reasons that the increase in the amount is not in line with the already established redistribution of funds within the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26429	Thank you. Mr. Representative Chacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26430	Thank you very much. It is an amendment related to the construction of wastewater purifiers in the municipality, in the town of Ivanac. Of course, this is a solution for a whole series of neighbouring municipalities in the area of the former Municipality of Ivanec and what I regret to conclude is that the refusal of this amendment confirms one government policy towards northwestern Croatia, and especially according to the Varazdin County which has laid down infrastructure projects, I would say almost nothing, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26431	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't get the votes he needed. 115th Amendment of the same representative, Mr. Radiir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26432	Thank you very much. The government does not accept this amendment for the reason that no investment-technical documentation necessary for construction is prepared for this investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26433	Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26434	Thank you very much, I accept this argument and if the minister stays here with this claim I hope that we can also get his public promise and make a commitment that with the completion of the documentation the Government will implement this programme in realisation, it would be on the trail of this argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26435	Is there anything to add to the minister in connection? Is he accepting or not accepting? He's staying. Then who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the votes he needed. The same representative of amendment 116 Mr. Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26436	Unfortunately, for the same reasons, the Government cannot accept this amendment for the reason that no investment-technical documentation is prepared necessary for construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26437	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26438	Thank you very much, the situation is exactly the same and with the purification for Ludbreg we talked about two minutes earlier, namely, one and the other documentation can be completed within the next 2 months, therefore there is no reason for the Government here if it really doesn't want to take the obligation of realization... if I understand the Minister of the previous amendment well, there is no desire with the documentation or without participating in these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26439	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much, the amendment has not been accepted, it has not received the necessary majority. I'm going to make a note here now. However, the minister does not have the right to comment after the representative has given his opinion but the purpose is to be possible after the representative's explanation, so theoretically he can and practically accept, please, this is a procedure, to accept the amendment as a whole or in part, therefore, in that case the minister may request the word again and in that sense express himself. Let's move on. 117, Mr. Radiir Cacic's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26440	The government does not accept the amendment for the reason that the main project documentation for the biological part of the wastewater treatment plant is not completed and allow me not to interrupt the Rules of Procedure just to say, we for projects for which there is no project documentation we cannot accept and cannot put into the draft budget. When the documentation is needed, then we can discuss how to put the items into the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26441	Thank you, Mr. Representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26442	Thank you very much to Mr. Minister, I fully agree with the government's position on the documentation I inaugurated that practice myself when I was in government, I think it's good, but in this case there is documentation for the mechanical part of the device, so I ask the minister to declare whether it will make a mechanical part of the device. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26443	This was not about later making promises but about accepting part of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26444	Does it partially accept because the device consists of a mechanical and biological part...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26445	I am putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. The same representative, Mr. Radimir Cacic, 118 amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26446	The government does not accept this amendment for the reason that no investment-technical documentation is prepared necessary for construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26447	Thank you. Mr. Representative Cacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26448	Thank you very much. I have no objection to Mr. Minister's position, everything I said about Marof and Ludbreg, of course, also applies to the treatment of wastewaters, Selnik. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26449	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 119th Amendment of the same representative, Mr. Radiir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26450	The government does not accept this amendment, but I can say that part of the funding for the implementation of this project is provided in the Croatian Water Management Plan for 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26451	Here you go, Mr. Representative Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26452	Thank you very much. I hope, of course, that part will be enough for the implementation of the project, the project has long been here and there is a willingness of the co-financing community, so if things develop as Mr. Minister says, to witness the completion of the project in order to make this promise, which in the general paragraphs of the water supply, a concrete commitment, I ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26453	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 120th Amendment of the same representative, Mr. Radiir Cacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26454	The government does not accept this amendment for the reason that no investment-technical documentation is prepared necessary for the construction of this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26455	Mr. Representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26456	Thank you very much. I would just point out that I personally participated in and signed contracts that ensured that this documentation was completed and it says here, so that the documentation was completed and submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26457	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? The amendment didn't go through, he didn't get the required majority. 121st Amendment of Mr Davorko Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26458	The government does not accept this amendment but I can say that it is going into realisation because the funds for the implementation of this project are secured through the position K 6,50034 water and sea protection against pollution and resources from the Croatian Water Management Plan for 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26459	Thank you very much, no MPs. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. We're now going to the 122nd Amendment of Ms. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26460	The government does not accept the amendment, but I can say the same as for the previous fact that the funds for this investment are secured through the position K 6,50034 protection of water and seas against pollution and from the funds from the management plan for Croatian waters for 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26461	Here you go, Madam Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26462	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I would just like to say this is the same amendment that Mr. Vidovic gave, namely, it's one project that's been working until 2015 and it's true that the funds are secured, however, I think that the project that's been working for 10 years is something really long and that the funds need to be strengthened to make this project real faster, it's simply about introducing a sewerage into the central part of the town of Sisak and implementing the purifier on the Buy itself. These funds are specific ones that are listed here for the ship's street which is located in the centre of Sisak, so with the narrow center of Sisak and for part of the Galdovo sewer system, therefore also a very narrow part of Sisak. The funds are simply too small. The project to be done by 2015 is a long-term project. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26463	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Let's move on, Mr. Joseph Lek's 123rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26464	Thank you very much. The government does not accept this amendment for reasons that there is no need, as the project will be implemented from the proposed funds set out in the item, as it stands in the budget and from the original funds of the Croatian Waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26465	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26466	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. This or similar explanation for these pipes and these projects has been for 10 years. With all my desire to trust you and the program and your experience tells me it's quite different, and Moslavina Posavina lies on the water and can't drink water quite safely. I ask you nicely that this is something that has not already been paid in a certain way, the pipes are driven, standing, rotting, falling into the sun and the wind, and that's all someone paid for, to speed up and to end it. It's just a rational request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26467	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. The amendment didn't go through, he didn't get a confirmed majority. Mr. Jagoda Martic's 124th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26468	Thank you very much. The government regretfully cannot accept this amendment for a reason because no investment-technical documentation has been prepared in an acceptable form, scope.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26469	Thank you very much. Mrs. Martic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26470	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If the Government regrets it, then I accept with even greater regret the argument, I believe especially the residents of the Municipality of the Tower of Norm. In fact, it is about the implementation of the sewerage of the settlement Krivavac, which is, and this implementation of this project is not only infrastructure but also of considerable importance and of ecological importance because of the uncontrollable release of feces. There is, Croatian waters would also participate with 50% of the funds, you said no documentation was made to the end. I know that the Municipality of Kula is funding and that is, at the end of the adoption of the complete documentation, so I don't think there's any need for all of 2005 because it hasn't been done yet, waiting with the realization of this important project, and here I am deeply convinced that colleagues from that area, or from Dubrovnik-Neretva County, will know this issue much better than I do, will support this amendment and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26471	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. The amendment didn't go through, he didn't get the required majority. The 125th amendment of the same representative, Mrs. Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26472	Thank you very much. The government does not accept this amendment for the reason that the project will be implemented under the project, a water pollution protection project in the coastal area. So he's going through another project.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26473	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26474	There's no reason, Mr. Minister, that I don't believe what you said was going through another project, but I would still like to see it black on white and written that these funds are meant for the realization of this. Namely, it is about the purchase of equipment for the first phase of cleaning up the wastewaters of the town of Makarska, so for the mechanical overload of the building is already made, it is almost only necessary to get the equipment. And that's why I'm saying I'd like to see that it's writing the exact funds that are scheduled for the implementation of this project, and that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26475	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 126th Amendment of Mr. Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26476	Thank you very much. The government cannot accept this amendment for now, but it is, this amendment is in function of what this ministry has been thinking intensively about. But in order to have at all certain resources provided for the promotion of the wood industry we must first create a legislative framework for support in the wood industry and the resolution ministry, means the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy is preparing this framework and I believe that in the first half of the following year we will pass a law on aid to the wood industry. It will then create a framework and an opportunity for this item to enter the budget of the Republic of Croatia and, if these assumptions are met, possibly up to budget rebalancing, then we will be able to install that item into the budget of the Republic of Croatia. If not, it will be something that will be included in the 2006 budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26477	Thank you very much. Mr. Agent Ledinsky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26478	I'm glad to hear the government is considering incentives in the wood industry, but I'm afraid our time is a little off and it's a long time to wait for the government's two years to pass, so let's do something about it. And why am I saying that? Well, the wood industry is primarily today our largest export branch, individually when we look at over 350 million euros in exports. Unfortunately, I have to conclude that exports are only related to semi-products with one boost in the finalisation of this production, with the boost of technological improvements and design development we could increase the number of employees and we could destroy the competition that brings back to us today as finished furniture in Croatia. And we just have a case that the imports of furniture in recent years have escalated with us and, unfortunately, today, the real final wood industry has become less and less due to the large number of sawmills that only process this semi-product. I would ask Mr. Minister not to wait too long with the Law of Incentives in the wood industry not to wait long and he thinks he's already prepared for most of it and can be put in the process. Because if we wait too long, then we say from that wood industry there won't be anything left like some other industry, for example. textiles and others lately and in this way and a large number of employees have been reduced and I am afraid that the same could happen with the wood industry and I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26479	Thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to Amendment 127 of Ms. Ljubice Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26480	The government does not accept this amendment for the reason that the project will be implemented through the Croatian Waters Plan from the resources of the river water compensation collected in the area.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26481	Thank you very much. As Mrs. Lalic is gone, we vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. 128th Amendment of the same representative, Ms. Ljubice Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26482	The government does not accept this amendment for the reason we hold that there is no legitimate need, because funding will be implemented in part through the regular programme of Croatian Waters in 2005. So the funds provided here plus the Croatian Waters funding from the 2005 programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26483	Thank you very much. There's no representative. We vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 129 of the House of Representatives Club of HSS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26484	The Government does not accept this amendment, as the increase in the capital grant position to non-profit organisations is not in line with already established redistribution of funds within the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26485	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, Mr. Representative Ivan Kolar, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26486	I think that the minister has confused the pots, this is not about any non-profit organisation, but about the obligation of the Agriculture Act, because if we read the Agriculture Act well, the Chamber of Agriculture is set up to promote the protection of the interest of agricultural economies, fishermen, for the sake of significant roles both in creating an overall agricultural policy and raising the competitiveness of our agricultural policy, and all in order to speedily enter the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. I quote the law, I don't know if the law means anything to you at all or doesn't mean who's implementing it, in which way, obviously it's a side matter to you. And I have to warn the public, and here you all are, what you said you institutionally tried to do out institutionally with this establishment of an alliance alliance, and if you think it's a substitute, then you don't carry out legal obligations, I'm sorry, I have to tell you in public.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26487	Here it refers, says the capital donations of non-profit organisations. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative, 130 amendments to Mr Bozidar Pankretić's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26488	The government does not accept this amendment, for the reason that the Government has done extremely large activities in this year and formed a food agency, established all the bodies necessary for the work and functioning of the agency and the planned amount of 4 million kuna in the following year will be sufficient for the work of the Food Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26489	Thank you very much. Mr. Bozidar Pankretić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26490	I think Mr. Minister will agree that this amount is not enough, but he had to accept it, and I don't think that's good. Because we have called on the Food Agency countless times so far in order to protect ourselves from excessive imports in a certain way. To say that this is certainly justified through the Agency, but in that part, we must speed up its establishment and resuscitation. Maybe it's funny to you, Minister, but I don't think it's funny. Because it's probably not funny for you either when Mr. Prime Minister speaks. For example, imports have increased, i.e. that exports are increased and that they are larger than imports. Unfortunately, you can't say that for agriculture, because you know that for the first nine months, imports from last year have increased by 17% and exports have dropped 7%. So, completely different trends that are certainly worrying and I believe you're concerned about that, too. There are also data that are also worrying, because if the Food Agency finds there is no problem with the red pepper from Hungary, for example, and in Hungary it is forbidden, it is also worrying. Therefore, I think that these resources in the Agency should be rapidly done and put her in a position to take that step, which is to protect domestic production. And so I think this is a well-intentioned amendment to help you and I think you're wrong when you reject it, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26491	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't pass, he didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Ante Markov 131 amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26492	The amendment is not accepted, for the reason that the planned funds are consistent with the projection of the necessary funds resulting from the national programme for increasing the production and consumption of fish in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26493	Thank you very much. Mr. Agent Ante Markov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26494	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, it's the same subject again. If we want to encourage and co-finance the construction of ships, if we want seriously our national programme of increasing the production and consumption of fish to put on its right feet. If we want especially not to God, which clearly we do not want to allow foreign legal persons to fish in our sea, and not to co-finance our own fishing ships, and their condition is not to explain what kind, they cannot deal equally with the Italian fleet, but with the fleet of any country located in the Mediterranean. And if for this need to co-finance the construction of ships we're going to set aside 2 million, I think it's even at a symbolic level inappropriate. Because the situation and what we're trying to achieve absolutely not to match the numbers, doesn't match what we're proposing, or what I'm proposing to be 12 million, and that's kind of funny. However, we want first of all to show that this fishing fleet is ours, and given the fact that we have extended our jurisdiction, we have changed the truth a little after that legal decision, but of course without investing in ships and without the support of the fishing industry we cannot expect to master those open parts of the sea, but we will also lose the territorial sea. Therefore, I ask you, my colleagues and colleagues, in this vote for this amendment, that we try to rise above the party frameworks and try to adopt this proposal. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26495	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 132 of Mr. Zeljko Pecek's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26496	The government does not accept this amendment, for the reason we estimate that this is a major step in insurance and such a financial amount. I would like to remind you that this government and this Ministry of Respecting the importance of the food industry in its internal structure has also formed the Management of the Food Industry, which in previous structures was the Department of Agriculture. I want to say one more thing here, that as Minister, I seek to be extremely responsible for agriculture and to provide maximum funding for agriculture, because I am aware of the needs we have in agriculture. And what sometimes answers a little smile comes face-to-face, it's from pure demagogy that someone who has brought this country and the situation in agriculture into the situation as it is, today speaks and teaches lessons to those who are trying to resuscitate the existing state.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26497	Thank you very much. Let us not come out of the framework of the Rules of Procedure, and let us share, and this also applies to the opposite side that has been giving lessons all morning. Therefore, I would ask that we remain within normal communication. And now, Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26498	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, what it looks like when you're trying to fix what you've been left with... is the data on exports and imports of agricultural products. For the first nine months of the billion and 100 million kuna imports of pojo-primical products and a deficit of $590 million. The deficit is greater than the total agricultural exports. It is the first time since the independence of the Republic of Croatia that we have such a situation in agriculture regarding exports and imports. And that's one thing that's true. The figures best talk about trends. If this trend continues and it is obvious that it will because you do not want to accept the amendment that this situation is trying to change. Next year, we'll have two billion dollars of agricultural products and only 500 million or 1/4 exports. I would like to remind you that there are 50,000 people working in the food industry and that hundreds and 40,000 families are currently working with this sector. In the last year, you secured 10.5 million kuna for support, you didn't spend any lip. In the following year you plan to set aside below 5 million kuna to support the food industry, which is symbolic. Which also tells us we have no desire or money, but obviously we don't even have a program. This amendment of mine has the ambition to increase that budget position by 5 million kuna or total in the development of the food industry to single out 10 million kuna. Obviously, you refuse such an approach and what we can conclude rather than have the same trends as we have so far. And they're in export, Minister, regardless of what you inherited is extremely negative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26499	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 133th Amendment of Ms. Alenka's MP, Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26500	The government does not accept this amendment because the increase in the amount is not in line with the already established redistribution of funds within the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26501	Thank you very much. Mrs. Chichin-Shain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26502	Thank you. I would like to say that it is a test of iodine water in the very center of the town of Sisak, or close by. You know, Mr. Minister, that the county has ordered a strategic document called the Regional Operational Programme. This document was made with the help of the European Commission with the help of the United Nations, expensive money for consultants has been paid and a very, very high quality material based on the natural wealth and wealth of human resources has been obtained. These natural resources include thermal waters in Sisak-Moslavina County and I think it would be worth it to consider something that was viewed 100 years ago by one quality of development in the county that has the lowest gross social income finally and this country recognises as one of the strategic development options. I'm asking for the vote on these 100,000 kunas I asked for.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26503	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And 134th Amendment of Representatives Mate Gavran, Mate Arlovic and Ljubica Brdarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26504	Thank you very much. The government does not accept this amendment for reasons that the increase is not in line with the already established redistribution of funds within the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26505	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26506	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, I thought you would, so we won't hear from you very well, so perhaps the minister will accept after this amendment. I thought after these almost 60 amendments, you'd be wide-ranging. I know it's not in line with the redistribution of funds, but these funds that we tried to propose to the amendment are a safe reflection of the needs of the people of the western part of the Brod-Posavina County. If you have read our proposal correctly, it is about the water supply system of Davor, which supplies the entire western part of Brod-Posavina County and 10 municipalities and the town of Nova Gradišca. The investment weighs about 360 million kuna, and if it is judged by what is planned and the water line to the last settlement could reach in one hundred years. I hope that someone will remember then how we talked here and advocated the need to secure enough funds that obviously are missing from you, Mr. Minister. With all the appeals, unfortunately I have to ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26507	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I would like to thank Mr. Cobankovic. I beg the Minister, Mr. Bozidar Kalmet. Amendment 135 of Representative Damir Cain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26508	This amendment is not accepted by the government for the reason that the construction of the Buzet-Strepet bypass at this time is not a priority given other priorities in Istria but the construction of the Visnjan-Porec road is planned in, is planned in the financial plan of Croatian roads and there has been an even meeting with representatives of the city of Poreč so there is no need for this amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26509	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Damir Cain, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26510	Dear gentlemen, yes, this is about two amendments, meaning the roundabout of Buzet-Straight and the construction of the Visnjan-Porec road. The truth is, there was a conversation between the representatives of the city of Poreč and the minister, but as far as I'm aware of the construction of the road... Porec. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Poreč is all of us here will agree to the most tourist town in the Republic of Croatia, each fifth tourist kuna is realized in the area of Porestina and this area is accordingly to be valolized by quality roads and at this time of the road Visnjan-Porec and Vizinada-Porec are indeed a disgrace to Croatia as a tourist destination. On that trail, we can say that something is necessary to do on the part of the road from Buzet via Strpeda to Požana. Namely, there is a border crossing through which it enters the same cca. One-third of what a guest, a tourist, makes random intentions and the road is such that it needs a close reconstruction. Finally, the city of Buzet is probably the only city in the Republic of Croatia that has exports per capita of almost $10,000. Thus, through this form, the city is very much participating in the state budget and we expect some funds to return to that space. Please vote for the first amendment, and if what Minister Calmeta is saying is true, then I'm giving up on this second one. But for the first amendment, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26511	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to amendment 136 of Mr. Zvonimir Mršić's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26512	Well, unfortunately, this amendment cannot be accepted by the Government for reasons that no retroactive funding of employees' rights from those areas from the reintegration period until January 2000 is possible because there is simply no legal basis for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26513	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26514	Dear Ministers, you know that the vast majority of Vukovar citizens have sued the Republic of Croatia to achieve this right, they are not guilty of not being classified Vukovar in the first category in order to achieve those rights but only in 2000. Therefore, these citizens lived in Vukovar, these citizens worked in Vukovar and they have the right to return to income tax as they acquired the right in 2000 when Vukovar was classified as the first category. So I ask you if this amendment is not accepted, acceptable, but to find in your Ministry funds and to start returning to these people what they have been entitled to since 2000. It doesn't make any sense that they have the right to something from 2000 and they haven't, or the state doesn't recognize it from 96 to 2000. I'm giving up the amendment!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26515	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? And you're withdrawing the amendment? [[Intruder: Drag him.]] Thank you very much. We are moving on to the 137th Amendment of Mr. Walter Poropathy's representative. 137, yes. [[/Intruder: 137?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26516	This amendment is also not accepted. There is no need to accept it because according to the proposal of the National Roads programme, the plan is to continue the reconstruction of the Labin-tunal Učka road within the activities of the Croatian roads. So there's no need to accept him.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26517	Mr. Attorney Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26518	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, the Labin-tunnel Učka road is the busiest road in the eastern part of Istria, and not only is it the most, but we must consider that this road also connects the islands of Cres and Lošinj with the best tourist approach towards those islands. So in that sense, thinking that the collapsed economy in the maze was the same as it was, that went past that lower part of the sinusoid, this is the only way that Labinstina would finally come out together with the entire eastern part of Istria to finally come out of isolation. So please consider these relatively small funds. Thank you very much. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26519	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 138th Amendment of the Club of Representatives Libra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26520	And this amendment can't, I don't think there's any need to accept it because we, within the framework of Croatian highways that are not budgetary but extra-accountary users, are planning over the next 3 years for project documentation for the construction of corridor 5C more than, more than, more than, billions of kunas. So this amount of one million kuna, I don't think there's any need, such an amendment to accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26521	On behalf of the Club, Mr. Representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26522	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I have to say, first of all, I'm surprised not to be uncomfortable but uncomfortable. Mr. Minister, when we had the budget for the current year, he reacted almost commendably to the same amendment. He said, "Friend Herman very well, but you will," I did not say I was serving, and that this will therefore be found in the 2005 budget. Now it turns out there's no need. It is not an enigma that seeks to make an appropriate promotion on the Corridor 5C project, an important highway, especially the Baranja-Osjek-Đakovo-Medranci, and that something is done to make it clear to everyone at last in Slavonia and Baranja that the project is going. And from your words again, we're talking about a period of three years. Please, last time you told me it was the beginning of the project just in June of next year. What's that? So I suggest you, besides having doubts about the bridge on the Drava, do something within this project, do something to promote this project, not to promote those projects that show very suspicious government results in the first year. Thank you very much. And please...... In fact, I'm not asking for a vote. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: I would individually.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26523	You gave up your vote. Let's move on. On the 139th amendment of Ms. Jagoda Martic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26524	Well, this amendment is not accepted by the government. First of all, the 2005 county priority did not run for the port in the town of Makarska, and according to the knowledge of this Ministry of Transport on the Makarska-Sumartin line, it takes place without major difficulties. The planned State budget for 2005 for the development of ports of national importance cannot be reduced because they are planned in optimal amounts for the completion of start-ups. Therefore, the amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26525	Madam Representative Jagoda Martic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26526	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry to hear that. The port of Makarska, the port of Makarska, and the port of Makarska were arranged and rescheduled some years ago by self-sufficient citizens, but the configuration of the port and the impact must be such that the sea actually damages the port's constitution or damages are already being seen and so there is a danger of the port coming back to one, as it did before the resuscitation. If the harbor is not designed as a protector in, in a way, a shield that would protect the port from hitting the sea, the means of repair will be much larger, and we will not solve the problem because we will be in the same situation again, and therefore ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26527	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're moving on to the 140th Amendment of Representatives, Mr. Antun Peru. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26528	The amendment is also a similar explanation as before, but I will repeat: According to the Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports, maintaining infrastructure in ports open to public transport of county importance is financed from concession fees, port fees, here, i.e. funds from the county budget. It is therefore not an obligation for the State to finance these ports because the funds for their maintenance are planned in another way. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26529	Here you go, Mr. Agent Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26530	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Until the other day, I was an employee of your Ministry and I know what you said, but this is about one key infrastructure, economic, development, protection and however you want an object important not only for the city of Pula and Istria County but for the state of Croatia. The harbor was built from 1910 to 1914 and had a defensive function, but also protective because until its construction of the sea, the wall of the old city of Pula was blue. The famous Golden Gate and the Forum were underwater until it was built. That's what's going to happen to us today if we don't understand the danger in time. When it was built, it was the largest infrastructure facility that was built at that time in the Mediterranean, and because of its carelessness it came into this situation. The former state had no hearing. We simply as a Croatian state, as people from the sea, as those who know what it means we simply have to start with its recovery. The project weighs EUR 8 million of recovery, 3 million of completion of construction. However, we are fortunate to be able to do so in phase, and I have requested these funds from the state budget to begin with the funding of the port administration of Istria County and the city of Pula with phase construction because it came five minutes after 12. And that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26531	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Moving to Amendment 141 Agent Walter Poropato. [[Intruder: This amendment]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26532	The government cannot accept it for the reason that the port is of county importance, and secondly according to data owned by the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, this port has an extremely large traffic and, according to our indicators, they can finance what they are looking for here in the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26533	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Poirot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26534	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, the port of Brestova is again on the road tunnel of Lučka-Labin connecting the mainland with the islands of Cres and Losinj. Therefore, I ask you to consider this amendment just because Jadrolini has ships that will speed up the flow of cars from land to the islands of Cres and Lošinj and therefore these ferryes are not able to land here for the reason that the ports of both Brest and Porozina are not ready to accept such ferry. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26535	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. We move on to Amendment 142 of Ms. Representative Doroteja Pesic Bukovac, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26536	This amendment is not accepted by the Government, for the reasons that the means of setting the maritime good limits are sufficient and relevant to co-financing of the coastal line pursuant to the agreement between the State, the Geodetic Authority, the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Space Planning and Construction. And the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development. And in order to determine the other maritime good-cost limits, they need and must bear the parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26537	Thank you. Mrs. Dorotea Pesic Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26538	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, we all know that our coast is over 1,000 kilometers away, and that these funds cannot be enough to establish borders. We are even more aware that units of local self-government finance the establishment of maritime goods borders, but the problem arises when it comes to confirmation in the ministry. And then you wait a year to verify those maritime well-being limits. In view of the need for concessions to be issued with us, we're a sub-communicated country should be able to establish all the borders along our coast as soon as possible. If we just take 1,000 kilometers, then count with my amendment together, that's £4,000 a mile. Which I don't think is much for the Republic of Croatia in this context. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26539	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary number of votes. We move to Amendment 143 of Mr Zdenko Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26540	The government does not accept the amendment because there is no need to accept it, as the funds are secured in the 2005 state budget for the restoration of the Adriatic passenger fot for start-up and planned construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26541	Mr. Representative Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26542	Thank you very much. If it was the funds planned right for this catamaran line, I would in that case withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26543	Thank you. Is it working or not working?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26544	Mr. Minister, if it were the funds precisely for this catamaran for this high-speed line, I would in that case withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26545	Yeah, it's about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26546	Thank you very much. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26547	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. We move on to 144 representatives of Mr Mate Gavran, Mate Arlovic, and Mrs Ljubice Brdarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26548	The hay amendment accepts for reasons because the position is intended for building and reflecting port buildings, the port of internal waters of national importance. In the amount of nearly 30 million or 29 million 298 thousand and 815 kuna, respectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26549	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26550	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, does this mean that this is already involved in that amount? Whether it will be secured and resolved to build the port of Brod and other ports. If I understand you correctly. So you accept this amendment which.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26551	I don't accept the amendment, I didn't say I accepted the amendment. I said the funds were planned in this amount under the Ministry's programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26552	Okay. But obviously, since the realization of this project, there's almost nothing going to be, so for those reasons, we've been going nowhere in position we've come across this item. Which would ensure that the port of the ship as a central port in the inner waters, which should be the backbone of economic development, continues with further construction. Not only the port of Bord, but there are three ports left inland water. Since it won't be almost anything since the construction I'm still asking to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26553	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the votes he needed. 145 amendments to Madam Representative Aleka Kosha Chichin Shain, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26554	That amendment is the same as before, and we cannot accept it. For the reason we planned the funds in the state budget, I said almost 30 million kn earlier. Which provides for all these ports that are listed here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26555	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26556	Thank you. It is the fact that the Sisak port and the prewar era were one of the main elements of the holder of the Sisak economy and of the Sisak Moslavina County. Mr. Minister, on your tour in that county, you can see the same as if in many gloves today there are abandoned, abandoned tow truckers, trailers, unstarted, and from the port and its traffic there is almost nothing. I can't read from your materials as much as you planned for that port, but maybe you can tell us. I couldn't see it from here. That's why I've put this amendment on hold.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26557	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. We move to 146 amendments by representatives of Mr Mate Gavran, Mate Arlovic and Ms. Ljubice Brdarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26558	This amendment is not accepted because the proposed increase in the position of maintenance and regulation of waterways and in the budget planned for 2005 the funds are planned at the position of 30 million and 408 thousand kuna respectively for the following year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26559	Mr. Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26560	Okay. I'm glad to hear about the planned funds, the truth not on this one but in the second position, Mr. Minister. Okay. If that's how I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26561	Thank you very much. This amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you. We're moving on to Amendment 147, Captain Alenka Košisha Chichin Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26562	This amendment is not accepted. For the reason that the funds are planned and projected by 32 million 294 000 kuna. And that amount of funding is sufficient for all planned airport and port activities in 2005. They don't need their raise.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26563	Mrs. Alenka Koshasha Chichin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26564	I thank you especially given the importance of the Zagreb airport. As the busiest in the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary for security reasons to provide 23 million kuna in 2005 for the production of technical documentation and the selection of the most favourable model for the extension of Zagreb airport. And as we know, the state owns the facility in that company with 55% participation. To date, a master plan has been developed to extend the Zagreb airport, based on an international public tender, which is a question of whether it can still be used today because it is already 8 years old. Or 10 years. A company owned by Nako from the Netherlands that envisions an expansion investment of 150m euros. The public knows nothing and can't read anything about the reconstruction of Zagreb's airport. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26565	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. The amendment was not accepted and did not receive the required majority. 148 amendments to Mr. Mate Arlovic, Ljubice Brdarić and Mate Gavran, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26566	This amendment is not accepted by the Government, for this reason one proposed linear increase of 717 million kuna in favour of all the budgetary positions of Croatian railways, in the context of the current macroeconomic situation, is not acceptable. I note that the budget for next year plans 2 billion 889 million and 662 thousand kuna, which has so far been planned in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for financing the needs of Croatian railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26567	Nice. Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26568	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. It is necessary to provide for increased resources in this amount for a simple reason, because the renewal of Croatian railways and their restructuring is very important for the overall development of the Croatian economy, because it is relied on by a large part of the metal industry, which should work to restore our wagon, wagon, locomotives, lower and upper Croatian railways, and in such a situation, such initial high-extribution for Croatian railways will actually be returned through the acquisition and incomes by employees and, of course, through the payment of taxes. So she's not going to be that big after all. At the same time, it will bear economic growth and development, be one of the bearers of economic growth and development of the Republic of Croatia, on the one hand, and on the other hand, and so-called Croatian Railways will be a compatible transport link Croatia with Central and Northern Europe on the one hand, and Croatia can open space on the other hand to connect East, Southeast Europe with Western Europe and, in this way, through corridor 10. That's why we think it's necessary to allocate this kind of asset. We commend, of course, the Resort Ministry and the Government that it has provided what it has provided, but we do not think it is enough that in the following year, which is ahead of us, we can do all the work we needed and therefore we will ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26569	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. The amendment didn't get the required majority. We move on to the 140th amendment of Mr Zdenko Antesic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26570	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons that the funds are planned at the position of the Ministry, construction, maintenance of port buildings in ports of national importance, in accordance with existing project documentation with the relevant permits and the annual investment programme of port administrations, on-board ports. Therefore, even if there were more resources, they could not be spent next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26571	Thank you. Mr. Zdenko Antesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26572	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, your Ministry has formed a Committee for the Construction of Stinica Port. So these are the members, therefore, of your Ministry's officials, and Stinica port itself, you know that it is the port that should become the main port for Rab Island on which over 350,000 cars and over 2 million passengers arrive annually, and the existing port of Jablanac is certainly, it is in such a state that it no longer meets the needs of an acceptable port for the island of Rab. In addition, the maritative abilities of the port that a new ferry is being built, which is also co-financed by your ministry, will no longer be able to agree to that port. You remember yourself, when you visit what it looks like, and I would really ask you to find a place in the State Budget, because otherwise we will find ourselves simply in wonder when this new ferry sails, and not being where to have consent. I'd like a vote on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26573	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're moving on to Mr. Walter Poropat's 150th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26574	The government does not accept this amendment because, as explained in Amendment 141, the Rabac Port Authority is able to finance the maintenance and rehabilitation of port infrastructure because of the extremely high traffic in Lucio Brestova.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26575	Thank you very much. Mr. Attorney Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26576	Thank you very much. Mr. Minsitre, the Rabac Port Authority has an annual income of about 2.7 to 3 million kuna. To make Rabac port a safe port for the reception of ships on the route from Rijeka to Pula, there is no other port. So on that relationship in case something happens, there's simply no way to protect any ship from anything. So in that sense, the Rabac Port Authority does not have those funds. That is why the city of Labin, the Port Authority of Rabac and the tourist community made technical documentation, building permit and by the season of 2004, so until this season, a phase 1 was made worth about 5 million kuna. We expected the Ministry to see the possibility, one part of the goodwill, to continue to explore the possibility of whether it is possible to co-finance this part in which the city of Labin and the Port Authority Rabac and the Tourist Board go on, but very difficult and it will last for years. Just for that. And once again, I say that the port would be safe for the people and the ships that sail there, and simply other ports between Rijeka and Pula are gone. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26577	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 151st Amendment, Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26578	This amendment is not accepted by the government, as in the framework of the Ministry of Agriculture, the promotion of rural tourism planned to promote this type of tourism is over 7 million kuna. Therefore, there is no need to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26579	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26580	The fact is that Varazdin County has invested in the development of rural tourism and all kinds of continental tourism over 9 million kunas since 2000. I'll keep Mr. Minister for the Word and the Varazdin County will run. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26581	This amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you. We move on to Amendment 152, Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26582	Ah, the government cannot accept this amendment, because we have already proposed a significant increase in the position, the tourism promotion of the Republic of Croatia and the sub-position of the current donation in money for the greater engagement of the national tourism organisation. The Croatian tourist community with 46 million and 500 thousand kunas per here is 69 million and 131 thousand kuna, respectively, by 49%.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26583	Thank you very much. Mr. Agent Ante Markov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26584	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, so you know as well as I that the subsidy of organised transport has produced very significant results in these years, especially in this year, which, despite some trends at first, has statistically produced good results and the reduction of this subsidy for organised transport can cause enormous problems, especially in this moment we cannot clearly predict movements on the world tourism market, and it is not good to send a message that out of last year 112 million kuna, this year, 61 million kuna stands out for the tourism sector. It's not good, no matter what there are, and some additions to that amount. Therefore, I think it is necessary to keep a subsidy for organised traffic, but let's say, if we don't use it for a foreign market, let's use it to use it by citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to enable them to have cheaper holidays, because at this point, foreigners have certain, favourable positions. So, let's keep this subvenica, accept this to be at the level of last year, and I believe that then the Ministry will have more room for action, because God forbid, I can always have relations in tourism, circumstances in the market that can cause trouble, and with this amendment it will only be easier for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26585	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're moving on to 153 amendments, the House of Representatives Club of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26586	This amendment is not accepted by the Government because the amendment is formally incorrect and inconclusive because it is contrary to the Budget Law so that we do not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26587	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club Mr. Representative Ante Markov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26588	First of all, we wanted through this amendment to strengthen the position of the resolution ministry and the Republic of Croatia in terms of as effective as possible battles for domestic product, a domestic product that should participate as much as possible in the tourist market. We know that despite the good results, the good yield indices that are multiplied and multiplied annually, the participation of the domestic product declines every year and especially agricultural and food products, we have now and on the board, and precisely in order to comply with the conventions of the European Union and in accordance with the practice that government and their country. And you know what happens in the European Union, when imports of agricultural and food products in one country exceed 5% the yellow light is turned on when it comes to 8% of imports of agricultural and food products red light. There are no restrictions on the protection of production, especially domestic production in the agricultural and food sectors when 8% comes, and when we turn on that red light. It is therefore necessary to help the domestic production sector to be subsidized and not in a way that threatens those conventions that say we cannot subsidise exports. We subsidise domestic consumption in Croatia, not exports, not what they might call uncompetitive activities of the Croatian state. This is a concern for its own country, care for its own people and care for strengthening the position of what is most important throughout the process in tourism, which is that the domestic product comes to the Croatian tourist table.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26589	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're moving on to the 154th Amendment of Ms. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26590	This amendment is not accepted by the Government. The implementation of the CEB programme 5 refurbishments of school facilities involving the programme of renovations of over 140 school facilities is under way so that there is no need to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26591	Thank you very much. Ms. Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26592	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'd just have to warn you that, within the framework of the CEB 5, all that's planned is to rebuild the school in the Mechens that's been talked about a lot, and for a year it hasn't been done, I haven't even seen the project. And here, in particular, this budget is increasing because of the renovation of the school and the arrangement of the school in Glina and the Lower Kuruzari which I have to tell you by CEB 5 is not covered. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26593	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're moving on to 155 amendments to the same representative, Mrs. Alenka Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26594	The government also does not accept this amendment because the funds have been made available, i.e. those funds are secured at the level last year, and any additional needs will be able to be financed under the EB programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26595	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26596	I thank you, Mr. Minister. You know that in the area, that part of the area... /The speech room has been turned off and re-enabled./... from the special state care that there are a large number of destroyed facilities of social purpose, that sufficient resources are provided for the restoration and arrangement of social purpose facilities, but this is about kindergarten in Glina, it is about the Social Home in Maya, it is about the Mali Gradac Society House and especially social homes in the rest of the area of special state care. That is why they are also called those areas of special state concern that the state takes care of them because if it were different, it would not be necessary for such treatment of this area. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26597	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move to 156 amendments, Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26598	We do not accept this amendment because the development of mountain-mounted areas in addition to the funds provided in the state budget can also be financed through other programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26599	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26600	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Minister, I know that it can be financed through other programmes, but if some areas in Croatia are actually life-threatening, if there has been a depopulation of empty areas, a hundred kilometers without a living man, then these are exactly mountain-mounted areas. I don't know what this government can give priority to if it doesn't give this one a priority. When the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas was passed and the income structure of those parts improved, these regions lived a little. Something was done in the infrastructure, some of the economy came back to life, these kind of steps will sink things where they were five, six, or ten years ago. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26601	Thank you. Who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're moving on to 157 amendments to the same representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26602	This amendment is not accepted. The development of areas of special state care will be financed, it is probably known to the agent, and through other programmes, e.g. the EIB programme, i.e. through a programme for the restoration of municipal infrastructure in areas of special state concern.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26603	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26604	I expected this kind of answer, which I can say freely, I'm sorry. I live in the Carlovia County and I know how people live, how they live, in what conditions communal, economic, no economic conditions actually exist, how they live in Kordun and in those areas that are of particular national concern. Such misery from this assembly is almost impossible to imagine, a new switch should be turned when it crosses the board of Karlovac. If the Government has such a view that the funds that were planned in last year's budget, it arranged 50% for those areas, for those who are the poorest and who gave the most in the Homeland War, it obviously outlines its policy. I'd like to ask you to vote on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26605	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're moving on to 158 amendments, Ms. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26606	This amendment, this amendment, is actually required to increase funds in the position of rebuilding municipal infrastructure in areas of special state concern, the EIB programme. The amendment is not accepted because the budget planned for 2005 is sufficient for the activities planned next year and implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26607	Thank you. Here you go, Madam Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26608	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm glad you planned those funds, and I'm sure I'd be glad to see that at the end of the year if they were enough to make that happen. It is about building a footpath along the state road, or the D37 County Road. A large number of people have already been killed, a large number of people living in Moscenica have been killed precisely because of the lack of that footing and part of the funds have been secured in the Regional Development Fund of the Republic of Croatia at the height of 500 thousand kuna, but as far as I know, it is not enough, so I gave that amendment. But I'm pulling it back, but I'm going to check at the end of this year if that foot-and-mouth has been carried out. Thank you very much. Otherwise, project documentation exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26609	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. We move to the 159th Amendment, Mr. Representative Radiir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26610	This amendment is not accepted by the Government because the funds are secured, and in addition to these funds in those project funding positions, it is possible to implement through... programmes such as a new ABA loan for integrated development of the local community that provides for funding in both the areas of construction and in areas of special state care and local communities outside the area of special public concern.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26611	Mr. Representative Radimir Cacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26612	Thank you very much. Of course, the minister is absolutely right, there is an opportunity to finance these projects and through the loan of ABA and this should not be specifically discussed here for over a year and a half we have worked intensively to ensure that this loan is provided by the Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament in the previous term and accept our component. The fact is that this huge money is currently at the disposal of the new government and I would be happy to confirm what Mr. Minister said that this small project in the municipality of Breznica is only 500 meters away from how much it is necessary to connect the municipality with the main road towards Zagreb. Of course, in order to be much more confident about it if it were accepted and defined by the amendment and not only remains on this general formulation that there are funds and if not in that budget item that will be in the one that is related to the ABE loan but if it is not accepted I am asking for a clear vote, the citizens of the municipality of Breznica will be very well aware of my own eyes whether I am right or Mr Kalmet, thank you, asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26613	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority, thank you. The same MP, Amendment No. 160, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26614	The amendment is not accepted, the explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26615	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26616	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, of course the answer to Mr. Secretary is exactly the same as the Cesta municipality, it's about building a new road... Križevljanska, in order to connect it with Croatian territory, that 46 households should not pass through Slovenian territory but have direct road communication with Croatia if it is not an argument I do not know what it is. Once again, I ask for a vote, I want it firmly put into the budget, and unfortunately, I also think that there will be nothing of it, and that this road, while these governments are made, will not be and will be checked by the citizens of the Cesta municipality with their eyes next year. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26617	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to the 161st amendment of the same representative, Mr. Radiir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26618	The amendment is not accepted, the explanation is as in Amendment 159.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26619	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26620	Thank you very much. Of course, the argument is the same by Mr. Minister, and on my part, I just have to mention that it is a project that is related to Dubrav Križevljanska and Vratnogorje that is a cyclist path used by 3.5 thousand citizens, the project documentation is made by that poor budget, and it will not pass so long we will have the thanks of God for six months of elections if until then the works don't start I don't know when they will. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26621	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to the 162nd Amendment of Ms. Alenka Koshasa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26622	The amendment is not accepted, the argument is the same as I gave MP Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26623	Thank you very much, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26624	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, I would just like to warn that Sisak-Moslavina County is the most economically decapitated county in Croatia, that it was once a county with a very strong economy and that the funds that this amendment provides are the funds intended to build a technological park in the city of Sisak. We're not gonna stick to what strategic development documents are and I think that's this built ROP or the Regional Operational Programme we're not moving that county forward in 10 years. Therefore, I ask you to think carefully about how you will launch the economy of Sisak-Moslavina County you and the Government as a whole, and this is just one of the amendments that could go in the right direction. I thank you, and I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26625	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He's got a quorum. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to the 163rd amendment of Mr Davorko Vidovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26626	The amendment is not accepted by the Government and the justification is as for these previous amendments, as for Amendment 159 and beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26627	Thank you very much. There are no MPs. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Now there's one small announcement, the notice is as much as we've gone over half the amendments with this amendment and spent 5 hours and 20 minutes, by logic it would take another 5 hours and 20 minutes to go at the same pace, this in order to warn the MPs that they should be persistent, there and vote. We move to 164th Amendment of Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26628	I think that Mr. MP can withdraw this amendment because for this amendment he has already signed and the construction of that road is moving and the government cannot accept that amendment and there is no need to accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26629	Thank you. Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26630	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, I certainly thank you for including this part, the meaning of the amendment was of course to increase these funds and to make the emphasis that other than the bypass around the town of Vrbovac for us is an extremely important extension of these roads one step towards Bjelovar and the other towards Koprivnica. I therefore believe that you have already provided for some of the documentation money, but of course I thank and withdraw the amendment in this part.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26631	Thanks a nice amendment has been withdrawn. It's the 160th Amendment, amendment of Mr. Ante Markov's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26632	The amendment cannot be accepted by the government because the Croatian roads have already built a connection from Pirovac to the D27 state road in 4.3km, and thus resolved to connect this area on the highway.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26633	I think that we're here to discuss, as far as I understand this is already under way, and we can expect that by the tourist season, this little date that stayed up to the Adriatic tourist road will actually be made, so this would be because it's about the amendment that was partially sublimated and in last year's budget, so we talked about it like this. So if this is how we've already told it, then there's no reason to vote, I'm withdrawing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26634	This amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. Mr. Ante Markov's representative, 166.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26635	Well, this amendment can't be accepted for the reason that we have a maritime good problem down there, and when that problem is solved, then we'll be able to discuss the reconstruction of this road, Tisno, exit Tisno. But for now, we can't, we can't, we can't accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26636	Thank you very much. Mr. Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26637	It is indeed one part of the state road D-120 and that part of the three, four kilometers that passes through the municipality of Tisno has remained in some way outside the reconstruction and reconstruction that covered the rest of the route. Since the municipality of Tisno has already taken a number of steps and invested its own resources to resuscitate part of the coastal wall that was in nature the D-120 state road, it is now extended according to the information that I have and the documentation and what is most needed and that is the building permit for such a thing is ahead of issue because it is infrastructure not of the facilities, I think the minister agrees. And the new law does not prohibit infrastructure facilities that function like the state road from being blocked by the law itself. Therefore, I believe that in this year too, something can be done to partially begin with the realization of this very important, at this time of the appendix, and in the future a very important roadway which will continue to make the rest of the section a complete D-120 quality and safe for transport. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26638	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. 160th Amendment of Mr. Agent Tonin Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26639	The amendment is not accepted because "Croatian roads" under the new BETERMENT programme are planning to reconstruct the D-31 road, from Velika Gorica to small Buna.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26640	Thank you very much. Mr. Agent Tonino Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26641	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, we can easily agree that one of the best ways to protect the participants in traffic is safe roads. Far from the media attractiveness of building highways in Croatia there is an entire network of poorly maintained or even undeveloped local and regional roads. So exactly the area of Popusko is the area of special state care, and the road that I am taking the amendment from the direction of Velika Gorica, Male Bune towards Popusko is in a very bad state with many slides and impact holes. And since it is a road particularly important for the restoration of this end after the war's casualties, it should be pointed out that it passes through the Vukovar Mountains and that it is very dangerous on these times and let alone in winter. I think its revitalisation would properly connect the city of Zagreb with Banovina, i.e. Velika Gorica and the entire county. And given the reconstructed bridge over the Kupa road, it would also mean a lot to the general development of the municipality of Popusko. I'd like a vote. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26642	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're moving on to the 168th Amendment of Ms. Alenka's MP, Mrs. Koshasha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26643	We've already discussed this subject, so the amendment cannot be accepted and the explanation is as I said there before the 10th amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26644	Thank you very much. Mrs. Representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26645	Thank you. Here is an amendment which, as you saw the documentation for building a bridge on the river Buy in Sisak is completely complete, perhaps just waiting for the construction permit to be issued. What would be important is to provide funds at least for the start of work, at least for what can be financed in 2005, and of course the construction itself will likely follow. I'd like a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26646	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move to 169th Amendment of Representatives Mr Mate Gavran, Mate Arlovic and Mrs Ljubice Brdarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26647	The amendment is not accepted because this amount that we have foreseen does not need to be increased because it is envisaged for the development of concession projects of road infrastructure, and the three-year experience so far on the development of projects such as the Istrian Ipsion and the Zagreb-Macelj highway, shows that the estimated amount is sufficient. Namely, the estimated amount is mainly used for the payment of occasional consultants.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26648	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26649	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Despite the fact that at first glance, we don't seem to be enough in this quorum hall, but here, Mr. Minister, let me explain the reason why we submitted this amendment. Namely, it is about projects related to the eastern road of Slavonski Brod, which is directly based on the port of Brod that we were talking about. It is also about the tour around the town of Nova Gradiška and it is about the project documentation for the road Rusevo-Solski dol-Imrijeci-Faka-Đakovo. The only part left unfalsified almost in the Požeko-Slavon County area, a settlement that is almost extinct. And in this area is the pearl of Slavonia Solsko Lake, which scientists claim to be the rest of the Pannonian Sea. If we don't secure as soon as possible the funds needed for this purpose, I'm afraid that part of Slavonia will remain empty. So I ask you once again no matter what the funds are small, the needs are at least more than justified, if it is possible to accept this amendment, if you do not ask me to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26650	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I'm notifying agents that there is a quorum of 82 MPs... That's exactly what I'm saying. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So there's a quorum and we can continue without interference unless there's a further walk. We move to the 170th Amendment of Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26651	The amendment consists of the construction of the train infrastructure for Učka tunnel and the rehabilitation of the Pula harbor. The amendment is not accepted, we cannot accept it, and the explanation is as follows. The funds at position T570361 are intended to modernise the line of corridor 5B1 Ostarija-Knin-Split and are mutually harmonised sources and dedicated loans of KFE and the necessary accompanying resources of the state budget, a significant prerequisite for the implementation of the planned dynamics of this project and the release into the function of its vital parts, in order to achieve the drawn effects of modernising the entire railway and raising the level of traffic security. Given that the construction of Učka tunnel and the associated infrastructure is at the stage of the documentation preparation, the appropriate preparation of this type will be launched on the burden of the position of study, investment and technical documentation for the railway infrastructure. As for Pula and the harbor, due to the fact that Pula port, a port of county importance for the recovery of the ports in the first row is the county port administration. We've made that clear before. However, according to the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, this ministry will propose that the government of the Republic of Croatia and the County of Istria and the city of Pula, either through their resources, or most likely credit arrangements, participate in the rescue.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26652	Agent Cain, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26653	Yes, this really means two amendments to the rehabilitation of Pula's Pula harbour, 10 million kuna, the construction of the train infrastructure for Učka tunnel where we are looking for 20 million kunas. Of this second amendment to the rehabilitation of Pula's Pula harbour, we will give up, I just want to point out that the county, or the city of Pula, cannot finance it on their own. Finally, I would just like to remind you that in time during Austria-Hungarian one of their biggest investments was just the construction of this harbor for needs at that time their arsenal. As for the construction of the railway infrastructure for Učka tunnel, 20 million kuna. Be careful, in moments when the Republic of Slovenia, the new Janšina Government, among other things, owns the Istrian railway, which is absurd, because it goes against the Succesian agreement on the one hand and against sound logic, is the railway built there in 1870 for the purposes of the Pula arsenal should open the topic of the railway tunnel through Učka. Istria is insulated in the rail sense. Complete traffic goes through Ljubljana. We can say that in a year or two, no communication with that railway will go to Istria anymore, and I remind you that Istria is not only tourism, that 30% is tourism, but 70% is industry, or other territorial activities. And that is why if we want to build this material base not only of this area, but also of the Republic of Croatia railways are necessary. Therefore, we propose that this old idea of Bishop Dobrila finally come true, to find this financial effort in the state budget and to approach the construction of that tunnel whose work is normal for political or not knowing what reasons Tudjman opened in 1993, but since then to this day, nothing has unfortunately been done on these jobs. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26654	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 171 amendment by MP Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26655	This amendment is not accepted by the Government. The area of investment in regional railways during 2005 will be thoroughly processed... of international importance and the railway of local importance, which will start a very intensive and systematic investment in their recovery and modernisation in 2006. [[because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand]] By then, that is, during the next 2005 period, there is certainly a budget for the purpose of strengthening the maintenance and maintenance of the safety level on those tracks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26656	Representative Vidovic. He's gone. We have to vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 172 MP Alenka Kosic Chicin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26657	Well, we can't accept that amendment either. It's about an identical amendment. And here I would beg not to repeat everything I said about the previous amendment to be an explanation for Amendment 172.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26658	A representative of the Chichin-Shain basket.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26659	Thank you. Namely, it's about modernising the Sisak-Zagreb railroad. It's 22 million in total on that item. I can't believe that's the only thing you're predicting next year, invest in railroads. And if that's all, I'm afraid that's not enough. This is the railway track we have long promised the people of Banija that we will better connect them with the city of Zagreb. We've been promising highways and railroads for a long time. And I really ask you, I believe that you will distribute it in 2006, but please tell me what will go on in 2005 in this position, or what will be allocated to this railway, how much money? You can't read that. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26660	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 173 MP Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26661	173 amendments The government cannot accept, we do not accept. During 2005, a significant number of ZCPs or railway and road crossings will be financed and resolved as part of large projects and large resolutions on corridor 5B1... Split and Corridor 5C Beli Manastir-Osjek-Vrpolje, and the funds in the budgetary position intended for individual solutions from these funds will be resolved on the other tracks. The development of a programme to address these railway and road crossings in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia is under way and will be adopted by the government in the beginning of next year as a national programme for the systematic financing and resolution of this problem in the following year and the following years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26662	Representative Vidovic. It's not in the assembly, please vote. Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 174 Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26663	The amendment is not accepted, the explanation is as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26664	She's a member of the Koshis.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26665	Thank you. So it seems that Mr. Vidovic also feels the same needs regarding rail transport and improving that traffic in Sisak-Moslavina County. What I was looking for with this amendment is actually improving the safety conditions at certain road and rail crossings, primarily in the town of Sisak, building Pasarella at the railway station. Secondly, the transition to Sisak, the settlement and finally on the Sisak-Petrinja-Sunja road, so it's simply a protection to make it easier for people, a better transition across those intersections. I would ask for this amendment to vote and preferably to find the means to be as safe as possible at those intersections.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26666	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 175 representatives of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26667	It is an amendment seeking the construction of the Bizinada-Porec road 10 million kuna. I have to say that this road, that there's a county road and that it's under the authority of the County Road Authority. Therefore, we do not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26668	Agent Cain, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26669	I mean, I don't know who classified those roads. However, we all probably agree in this assembly that Poreč is the most tourist city in the Republic of Croatia, that Porestina in a touristic sense is 20% of Croatian tourism. These are simply facts, and the roads leading towards Poreč from Vizinada or Visnjan are indeed a disgrace to Croatian tourism. Therefore, I really ask the Minister to try to understand this fact and try to achieve something not only for people who live in these areas for, but for Croatian tourism in general and for the image of the country as a whole. I'm asking so much of the vote and I hope that at least most of this will support me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26670	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 176 representatives of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26671	This amendment is not accepted. The planned funds are planned in accordance with the preparation of technical documentation. Therefore, anything beyond that would be unnecessary, since it could be spent. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26672	Representative Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26673	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, at the end of the last amendment, I won't say sorry, but surprised... Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[because of the President's bell, the speaker doesn't understand]] For the reason that the western part of Sibenik-Knin County, or part of which is situated in the municipalities of Tisno, the municipality of Pirovac, the Municipality of Murter, belongs to a landscape almost entirely under special protection, whether it is a national park, whether it is parks of nature, whether it is particularly protected values. So, it's the landscape that really requires that we approach the implementation of the draining, wastewater, the deforestation of the coastal waters, the creation of an eco-system that should now be protected, and also entrenched, because we know that this area that belongs to the tourist area is exposed to a large number of tourists, a large pollution, and is located near one of the most beautiful national parks in Kornati National Park. And I believe that there can be within government projects, within certain funds that are not directly based on the budget. The funds are not only designed to produce documentation which is, among other things, produced and under way, tender documentation but that can be approached by the realization of the first part, given the fact that all units of local self-government have provided their share of the share in the realisation of this large and significant project. I therefore expected that at the very least the funds would come out of some other pairs, sources that are certainly available to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I would ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26674	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. 175th Representative Damir Cain. I beg your pardon, 177 MPs Mate Arlovic, Ljubice Brdarić and Mate Gavrana.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26675	Well, here's, uh, this amendment is not accepted because the Agency for Exorcisors, Returnees, Refugees has not registered any, no request or request for assistance in paying for housing reservations from the city of Vukovar. In the area of the town of Vukovar largely undefined ownership of the residential fund. Moreover, the purchase of apartments to former tenants has not yet started, and the legal obligation to pay the reserve stems from ownership rights, which is therefore not yet defined in a significant number.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26676	Thank you. Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26677	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, probably neither the users or debtors from Vukovar knew they needed to make a special request. They spoke to competent institutions in the city of Vukovar and received naturally negative answers. With this amendment, our desire was to help those citizens and the people of Vukovar who during the past period were unable to buy apartments to pay a housing reserve that has reached nearly 6 million kuna. They were not simply, nor could they be because they were not the owners of these buildings. As this is a huge problem and as it is a city hero, the city of Vukovar I ask you to reconsider and make it possible to accept the amendments to the solution of this burning problem for the people of the city of Vukovar. Unless I ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26678	Please vote. He didn't get the necessary majority. 178th Representative of Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26679	We do not accept this amendment because the funds for the editing, protection and presentation of the Vindi Cave are planned under the Ministry of Culture and the Programme for Nature Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26680	Mr. Korenik's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26681	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I must say that I am not fully satisfied with Mr. Minister's explanation more because the municipality of Donja Voća in whose area this cave is located, belongs in the area, in the border area towards the Republic of Slovenia and is extremely underdeveloped and falls within the area of special state concern. In doing so, they simply as a municipality are unable to finance anything related to this cave. That's all the Varazdin County does. I must say with insufficient assistance from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as it has been this year. This year, the country has financed an access road with parking and disposal, and the cave has been protected since 1964 by the Nature Protection Act and we are looking for funds to further protect the cave from the devastation itself. Because of the importance of this municipality and the message we're going to send to this undeveloped neighborhood, I'm still asking for a statement from the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26682	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 170th also representing Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26683	We do not accept this amendment for the reason that the development of a regional operational plan of the Varazdin County will be financed from the items for regional development and there is no need to introduce a specific item in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26684	Mr. Korenik's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26685	Well, I'm going to trust the minister this time and I'm going to hold him to my word, so I'm going to, and I hope that he will make sure that this part of my amendment is financed from his ministry. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26686	Thank you very much. Amendment 179 withdrawn. Thank you Minister, you have finished your amendments. We're going to the amendments to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the spatial arrangement. Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic. Amendment number 180 of Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26687	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The government does not accept this amendment. We've already done it well this year because out of 125 registered dumps, almost all of them are semi-legal. Uh, we spent this year and agreed 333 million kuna and if the former government had at least one dump, the situation would have been better.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26688	Mr. Korenik's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26689	I thank you for the explanation given by the Minister, however, I must say that there are several semi-legal dumps in the area of the Varazdin County especially around the cities and the Ludbreg and Novi Marof chains. In addition to that in the Dutch area of the Varazdin County from, it is also rich in underground waters that are served in part and for the water supply of Zagreb County. This explanation I would like to get or hear about the guarantees that the Varazdin County area will indeed get the money in the range they need because the fact is that the Varazdin County is simply financially not powerful enough to support something like that. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26690	Is the amendment withdrawn? The vote, thank you. Who's up for the amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 181st MPs also Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26691	The government does not accept this amendment. There are no plant wastewater purifiers. And if this is about biological wastewater purifiers, then I have to say that it belongs to another ministry with the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has begun to build 47 wastewater purifiers of over EUR 385 million. We therefore think that all will be cleansed at a certain time over certain years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26692	Mr. Korenik's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26693	Thank you very much. I see, Madam Minister, you don't exactly have the latest information on trends in the world. The fact that our neighbor, the fact is that the neighbouring country, the Republic of Slovenia, is widely used by such, such purifiers for, above all, smaller settlements. That's exactly why I'm asking the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26694	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 182. Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26695	We do not accept this amendment because the Environmental Protection Fund, as well as the Ministry, which I said was also funded from the deposit of semi-legal and legal to feral dumps, are indeed the units of local self-government. She's not taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26696	Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26697	I understand your position, Madam Minister, but the fact is that we are constantly putting financials to units both regional and local self-government... And that's why the county just doesn't have enough money to settle these wild dumps anymore, and since you're not giving up on yours, I'd still like this high house to declare the fate of this amendment, especially since I think we have a large, as I've already pointed out, large resources in the drinking waters in Varazdin County. [[/The speaker is not understood for ringing.]] Such, such pollution would lead to the threat of groundwater, and I'm afraid we'll do more damage than benefit by not accepting the amendments. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26698	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Gentlemen of the Parliament, please. Amendment 183 of Alenka Kosic's representative, Cicin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26699	We don't accept the amendment as we think this is enough funds because mostly spatial plans of nature parks and national parks for our ministry along with units with county institutions. And if it's gonna take us on business expenses, we have that money.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26700	Councilwoman Shain, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26701	Thank you, Madam Minister, I would just like to point out that this is a park of nature Lonjsko polje that this nature park through several counties I know that you have the resources. I'm only interested in whether these funds will be allocated precisely to this spatial plan and we'll see it finished in 2005 so that we can run for further funds to further finance the development of that space. Thank you. In that case, I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26702	Amendment withdrawn 183. Amendment 184 to Dorota Pesic Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26703	The adman is not accepted. We have secured funds on the intervention plans and, if necessary, we will give those funds. And in particular, we cannot accept the amendment because of the fact that you have written that the funds can be obtained from the study's assessment revenue that is pure means of purpose are the owning incomes, which investors pay for making or grading studies.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26704	Representative Dorotea Pesic Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26705	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Minister. I gave this amendment last year for this year. You promised me you'd put it in the next budget. A project documentation of all submerged ships and planes will be developed. Here I have that phonogram I took out of the last budget. And that's why, since I haven't seen in this budget, I've provided these funds for it, which is why I've given such an amendment. So we're not looking for these funds in case there's a re-contamination of the Adriatic as it was in the Rabac or in the River in Kvarner. We're just asking to make a study for the entire Adriatic. And please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26706	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the required majority of the amendment no. 185 suspects Mato Gavran, Mato Arlović and Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26707	It's unacceptable. We for these capital and current aids within the general state have a million and 350 thousand kunas, we know that the dn aikada is not enough but we think this is going to be as many bars as it is enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26708	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26709	I'd like to share that satisfaction with you, Madam Minister, if that's really enough. Unfortunately, I will begin again from the area of Posavina County, which is intended to engage in solving this burning problem. Waste management. Unfortunately, we ourselves are unable to even run the process. That's why we've been and I'd say it's humble in our demands, an increase of millions and 200 thousand kunas we thought this ministry and the state budget wouldn't be more important to disrupt the overall relations and that would help us greatly. But since I don't have the money, I'm still asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26710	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 186 Alenka Koshas MP Chichin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26711	It's unacceptable. In fact, I said a little while ago about that first amendment of ours, it's that we first started a waste dump rescue. So far, no one at this job has done anything. We've invested, or we've contracted 333 million kunas. Of course, now that something's been invested, you're asking for more. We think that for all that units of local self-government will have local permits and an environmental impact study we will be able to arrange for in the following year to resuscitate these dumps. So I repeat once again, if the former government had done at least something different, the situation would have been very different.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26712	Alenka Koshasha's representative Chichin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26713	I thank you very much. I am very pleased to hear the words of Madam Minister that this government will at least do something. In this regard, technical documentation is likely to be made at least technical documentation for the disposal of waste dumps in the Sidačka Moslavina County. I mean, first of all, the Costa Rican. It's an area of special state concern, of course they don't have their own resources because they're poor municipalities. And I'm afraid they don't even have the means to make technical documentation, so in that very sense, I'd ask you to accept that amendment, and I'm asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26714	Who's up for that amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 187 respected representatives also Alenka Košisa Chichin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26715	The amendment is not accepted, namely, as you know, the Environmental Protection Fund has now called for the second time not only for the recovery of the deposit, but also for the construction of the project documentation and even for the purchase of the country for those units of local government that are located in such areas as Mrs Chichin Shain has now spoken of. Therefore, we will also give these units local self-government funds for project documentation and environmental impact studies. Projects even to some for the purchase of land.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26716	She's a member of the Chichin Shain basket.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26717	I thank you, Mr. President, here are these 16 million wanted here are just designed to make an environmental impact study. And I'm very glad to hear that you were planning to give it to me in the next year just for that item. So that's why I think it would be good to once again vote here to confirm this amendment purely so that people hear that you're really going to give those funds to that exact position for making that study. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26718	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 188 also advocates of Alenka Kosha Chichin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26719	It's unacceptable. We have a total of 5 million 420 thousand kunas on eye control, because it's not only surveillance, it's also improving the state of the environment. So I'm surveillance getting into it, and I believe that's what we're doing and how we're doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26720	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26721	The theme of Sisak and the pollution of Sisak especially air pollution, about water so we don't get rid of it. Hervos refinery, thermal power plant, Sisak Ironworks, big contaminants. Madam Minister, I think it's going to be a subject we're going to talk about very often over the next three years. I think surveillance really needs to be stepped up, but not just surveillance, but measures to get that thing into some shape of order. Not only are there of course state-owned companies there are primarily private companies more and more. But whoever cares about the citizens is just us. So I'm asking you nicely to accept this amendment. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26722	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 189 MP Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26723	And that amendment is not accepted, namely if we're talking about Sisak, then I think we'll be the first to do something in the city of Sisak. Because other than that station that was already built, it's now being built, and now it's actually working because there's some new stations being bought and then Sisak bought it. So all citizens will be able to see the air situation in Sisak. It is clear that we are not satisfied we have received promises from the refinery that they will be the largest polluters in the area. That the first priority in their investment in environmental protection will be the refinery in Sisak. And that within 14 days of my meeting with them, they will be given short-term measures and within a month of a long-term measure and that they will be discussed in the Government. So we still have to wait just 5.6 days and we'll get everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26724	There's no representative. We have to vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Amendment 190 of Alenka Košisa Chichin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26725	It's unacceptable. For the first time in the year last year, two million kunas, actually for this year for associations and for current donations in money, we predicted. Now we're going to call in a tender we've given them the funds, and now we're going to see what these associations are going to do for those funds they've got. Especially when they file a report. We got a report from someone for 2003, which is for some other means, but we're not very happy with all the associations. We don't think this is enough for now, but there's just no more resources for the association.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26726	Thank you. A representative of the Chichin-Shain basket.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26727	I thank you, Mr. President. NGOs are exactly the points that should control environmental protection. We may be somewhere in the beginning of these processes, but it's just strengthening these instruments is what this whole profession is resting on in some way, that is, control mechanisms. It is very important to have these control mechanisms and it is very important to encourage civil society and control through the forms of civil society, and this amendment goes in this direction to strengthen these associations, and of course to control what they do and how they spend money. That's not controversial. I would, however, ask that this amendment be voted on, because it is one form of civilised behavior that we are looking for in this sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26728	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. Thank you, Minister. The next position is the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Please Secretary of State Nevio Šetić, Amendment 191 of Košisa Chicin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26729	The amendment is not accepted for reasons why reducing the position of promoting passenger and combined transport under division 075 of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction would endanger projects of activities financed from that position.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26730	A representative of the Chichin-Shain basket.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26731	There's a misunderstanding here. In fact, it is that in the town of Sisak it is proposed that a former military station on Lajarska Street be arranged for a student and student home. As well as the area for defense associations, NGOs, civil sector domain associations. The above-mentioned area of the MRLs is no longer used, and this space would solve these problems. That's the amendment I've set for your ministry. And what the position is removed from, because we agreed to make amendments, one of the positions was to encourage passenger and combined transport, where I had it downloaded 5 million below. I think that's how the amendment was supposed to go. Anyway, I'm looking for an amendment to the vote, because I think the funds, that should provide funds in that county for such a student standard and student standard.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26732	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. 192, Agent Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26733	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the funds for these purposes have been amended and supplemented by the Law on primary education of 2001 provide for the budgets of counties and cities that finance decentralised primary education functions. I would especially like to stress here that from the title of those funds that the Ministry has invested in capital investments so far, out of 50 million and 311 thousand kuna, will now be allocated, in 2005 in the budgets of these cities and counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26734	Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26735	Yeah. It's true for some cities. For some counties, however, the law applies, not to some cities. We're just here looking for some initial means to start building a sports hall in the city of Pazina. The town of Pazin has one hall at the seminary, there is something that can be called a hall, but an extremely modest character in their high school center, but so to say world schools do not have a hall and therefore we propose an amendment where such a student and so on would raise the standard to a significantly higher level. Please vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26736	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 193, also representing Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26737	The amendment is not accepted because the planned funds amounting to a million and 200 thousand kuna are the amount needed for those expenditures, given the large activities and obligations covered by the ministry in the area of Croatia as a whole. Travel abroad and a large number of activities related to meeting international programmes are also included.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26738	Agent Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26739	Your Honor, Mr. President. The IDS Club here requests that one small sum of 250,000 kuna be directed for the activities of the Višnjan starry. I dare say that this may be one of the most significant I will not say scientific but research institutions on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. Why? Because that starry in that small Istrian place has so far discovered perhaps 1,400, perhaps 1,500 hundred meteors, which is the different asteroids that classify the 4th, 5th place of such institutions in the world. Many have therefore not heard, say, in the world about Croatia, but they know about the Visnjan starry. I, too, ask the Secretary of State, or the Ministry of State, to present parliamentary representatives to respect this importance, and the institutions provide them with the resources they so need in their work. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26740	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 194, also representing Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26741	The amendment is not accepted because 32 cities and counties have been active since 2001.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26742	This is all true, however, I think, some of the environments in the Republic of Croatia are more advantageous than others and I think it would be opportunised if the city of Buzet was helped to adapt or upgrade Vazmoslav Gržalja elementary school. The County of Istria enters the project with certain resources. The city of Buzet will give huge funds so the school can bring in "senses". We believe that it would be opportunised that the state of Croatia also participates in these activities. I mentioned it before, I'll do it again. Buzet may be the only, not possibly but certainly the only city in the Republic of Croatia that has the export per cap of $10,000, means per capita, so it's very much participating in the State budget. Let's try that middle and fight back for what we've done. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26743	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 195, Agent Walter Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26744	I have to say that the situation here is the same as the reconstruction and upgrade of the Podpican elementary school and we simply don't have legal opportunities, because by 2001 law, these capital investments were transferred to 32 cities and counties. And I want to say once again that this year, so 51 million kuna will almost be transferred to the counties and cities for these purposes. So their budgets will increase. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26745	Representative Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26746	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, I understand that. However, we have such a demographic structure that from year to year the church warns us of what is happening. There is one opposite situation in Potpicen. And what I wanted with this amendment and us from the Labinscina IDS Club is that where the number of children is increasing helps and shows by Minsitartva and you as secretary of state that you have a hearing of such a relatively small amount. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26747	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 196 of MP Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26748	The amendment is not accepted. This activity has the term "Prevention of Violence in School" and not "dependence" as in the amendment, and the position 32 36 is health veterinary services, not rents and rents, so it is impossible to consider redistribution under that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26749	Representative Vuljanić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26750	... In the A577009 section of school addiction prevention, there is, of course, the prevention of school violence, which I have also given the amendment to. [[Specially enabled.]] It's a nice writing. Therefore, there is no other way but to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26751	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He's not accepted. Amendment 197 also represents Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26752	The amendment is not accepted. The planned funds amounting to 1 million 399 thousand and 600,000 kuna are at the level of 2004 and cover the range of defined programmes, and the amount of one million kuna is impossible to get in touch with the activity of A577000 positions 32 37, intellectual and personal services for the purposes of these activities of organising external cooperation for the needs of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports such as. for the making of certain laws, commissions, etc. the obligation to undertake new activities assigned to the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26753	Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26754	I know perfectly well how intellectual and personal services work in a system of new curriculas and similar things. The violence in schools is as you said this morning about the addiction of Minister Schuker, the monster of this society. We read every day about what's going on in schools, some schools are already thinking about armed protection, so things are going to happen to us like in American movies. But obviously, as well as school addictions and school violence, this government doesn't consider it a big problem, and especially not a growing problem because it predicts the same figure as last year, so that's just some kind of message. I think it's one of the acute problems in this society and I'm asking the Parliament to make a statement about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26755	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Secretary of State, go to your place. We're going back to the amendments to the budget. Amendment number 198 National Minority Representatives' Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26757	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the reduction of resources in that position of state support for recovery and reconstruction would be challenged by the programmes financed from that position. I would like to point out that the State budget for 2005 was planned by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports for the purpose of promoting the education of national minorities by as many as 11% more funds than in 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26758	In the name of the club, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26759	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, you know that the most funds are spent to translate and print the textbooks of national minorities, that every year in that position is quite a savings, and if we add this very often unintentional and non-transparent spending of money from this position, we today have a minority school that has not translated a single textbook. This indirectly does not implement the law on national minorities because the right given by law is a dead letter on paper. Knowing that, at the end of this year, there is a really great need for translation at the end of this year and for minority schools to finally be allowed to have the necessary teaching textbooks, and therefore I ask you to accept this amendment. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26760	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 199 MP Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26761	It is not accepted for a very simple reason that they are responsible for the construction of kindergartens have municipalities, cities and counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26762	Since Representative Radiir Cacic is not in the hall, please vote. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. An amendment of 200 MPs to Radiir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26763	The same construction of Breznički hum kindergarten is also not accepted for reasons why it is an obligation to finance municipalities, cities and counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26764	I ask the vote since there is no representative of Cacic in the hall. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 201 of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26765	The construction of Bednja kindergarten is not accepted for the same reason because it is the duty of municipalities, cities and counties to finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26766	For the same reason I ask the vote. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 202 MP Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26767	This is one complex amendment, it is not accepted, first of all, that part that speaks of a global increase in total for primary education because the planned funds are sufficient for the existing contract rights on primary education. The second part of the amendments, which discusses the addition of the Center for Education and Education Čakovac, is also not accepted, but I would like to say for reasons why the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in previous years of the same age as the education of children with developmental difficulties ended in Koprivnica and Križevci and there is an ongoing capital project relating to the center "Tomislav Špoljar" in Varazdin. And that part of the amendment that talks about building a sports hall in Ivanac, then the sports hall Kursanec and sports halls in Čakovec, the elementary school in Čakovec is not accepted for the reason that since 2001 the construction of these capital facilities has moved to 32 cities and counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26768	Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26769	I'd stick around in this main section, it's really about the complex amendment, the part that talks about the salaries of primary and secondary education staff. In fact, the budget is projected to grow only 2% in the following year, which is too little. We know that the problem of educational workers in primary and secondary schools is that they are lagging behind in salaries or other state employees, now it is the lagging around 12%, these 2% in fact... the impact of inflation alone, by the end of the year will be even greater, so there will be problems in our education very large, today the trade unions announced their protest actions, they will certainly take place next year, so I'm afraid that our teaching next year will be burdened with problems that would not be to predict an increase in salaries for average workers in primary and secondary education at least 10% in the total wage mass. By contrast, I am recording in that same budget wage growth, in other ministries it is much higher and only the Ministry of the Department of the Administration of Growth pays, pays the total increase in the mass of this salary is over 200%. So, once again, I warn against the injustice of educational workers who are doing their job very well, and the question of what will be further, how they will do their job especially as it descends, raises the question of how much they want to stay at large to do the job. Please vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26770	Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 203 of Parliament to Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26771	The amendment is not accepted for the reasons why the above-mentioned amendment is already planned for other activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26772	Representative Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26773	Mr. Vice-President, in his proposal for a state budget, the Government plans to abolish the full item for primary education and training of young and adults, I recall that item was introduced after the census when it was found that there are too many adults. The item you probably think of in my explanation refers to training for the first profession, and you as the secretary of state for primary school should know very well that primary and secondary education is not the same. The second motivation to submit this amendment is to talk to the protégés of the Turopolje Centre for Education and Education, in fact, the minors' sentences have urged that when they do their sentences they cannot finish their primary school outside because it is simply too expensive for them. According to the Constitution in this country, primary education is mandatory and free of charge and is different from secondary education and training for the first profession. Therefore, I cannot support the fact that you completely abolish basic education and training of young people and adults, and I would ask MPs and MPs to vote in favour of this amendment as much as possible in this budget, which provides for an increase in resources for the transport of the body by 8 million kuna by the state government, and that is for Croatia, which has too many illiterate, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26774	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 204 of Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26775	The amendment is not accepted for already explained reasons because since 2001 construction of sports halls means capital facilities becomes an obligation of 32 cities and county in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26776	Representative Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26777	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I cannot accept this argument first, it is about Makarska about the city regardless of all the conditions it has for development, winter, or sports tourism, regardless of what a lot of sports associations are doing in it and a lot of young people are involved in sports, there is not until today's hall, we have schools in the area of the city, of them only one has a gym, there is a gym for sports activities within the school. The city of Makarska is also willing to allocate most of the funds from its budget and thus participate in the construction of the sports hall, but this way I would like the government, or your ministry, with one part of the funds eventually to close the financial structure and to finally get its own hall. I do not need to mention how much it would mean for the development of sports tourism that can last 12 months, and also for promoting healthy life among young people and ultimately all these sports associations deserve to finally get a roof over their heads, not only have open terrains. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26778	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 205 of Representative Radiir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26779	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that it already takes place under the project K-311 567 reconstruction of the Ivanec primary school building under which the sports hall will be built, so that this amendment is not necessary and does not need to be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26780	Since there is no representative of Cacic in the hall, please vote who's in favour? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 206 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26781	The amendment is not accepted for already known reasons because since 2001, the ministry is no longer mandatory or unable to plan funds for the construction of such capital facilities as the Višnica Sports Hall in Lepoglav.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26782	Who's in favor of Amendment 206? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 207 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26783	It is the completion of the Vedovec elementary school sports hall and the amendment is not accepted for the same reasons because capital facilities have been built since 2001 as part of 32 cities and county that are obliged to finance. Once again, I would like to remind myself that almost 51 million kunas from the state budget this year, namely the 2005 Budget, are being allocated to what was previously collected by the state budget, will now be collected, i.e. in these 32 cities and Croatian counties as decentralised funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26784	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 208.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26785	It is the construction of the Ljubljana elementary school sports hall. The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as I explained earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26786	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 209 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26787	Yes, building the Maruševac Elementary School Sports Hall, not to mention, for the same reasons, the ministry cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26788	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 210 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26789	Construction of the building, construction of the sports hall of Trnovec Bartolovčki elementary school. The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons I already explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26790	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 211th Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26791	Also capital facilities, construction of the sports hall of Svibovec elementary school, Varazdinske Toplice. This amendment shall not be accepted for the reason that it is an obligation from decentralised funds belonging to the counties and 32 cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26792	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 212 of MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26793	This is about the reconstruction of the primary and secondary school in Pag. The amendment is not accepted for the known reasons that I have already explained, but I would like to point out here once again that from the title of building primary schools from the State budget for 2005 will be in decentralised funds made available to nearly 51 million kuna, and for secondary schools, it is almost, 33 million kuna. So it will be deployed to 32 cities and county.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26794	Like this, we heard some similar arguments last year, so then schools, especially those where almost identical amendments are being renewed. It is true that these are the obligations of local self-government units, but these are legal obligations, but it is also the constitutional obligation of the state to assist local self-government units. This really is about basic and secondary school in one difficult condition are buildings, that often teachers, together with children, move benches, move chairs from one hour to the next so that the ceiling doesn't fall. That's why I think, well, I insist that we vote to make a statement about this amendment, but before the quorum is determined.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26795	Please determine the quorum. ... We can't vote, there's no quorum. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm calling on the agents to enter the hall. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Is ‘ Cain in the hall? ’ Please vote. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Who's in? There are 78 MPs in the hall. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 213. Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26796	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that a pilot project to build school sports grounds in the Karlovak County project was completed with the 2004 Budgetary year. As can be seen for these purposes and in 2005, we propose to provide 100 000 kuna for the reason for the possible transfer of contractual obligations from 2004 to 2005, but without taking on new contractual commitments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26797	Representative Vuljanic is not in the hall. Please vote. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 214 to MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26798	Building a sports hall of St. Philip and Jacob. The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the implementation of this project is planned through programme C-5 within the framework of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26799	Representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26800	As a matter of fact, Your Honor, first of all, the Municipality of St. Philip and James was forced to pay under contract to the Croatian Forests land compensation, so instead of giving the state free of charge for the construction of the primary school, it also burdens the municipality of St. Philip and James with an amount of 830 thousand kuna. Of course, the municipality is only able to participate in infrastructure land equipment for the school and the sports hall itself, so it needs these resources. We all swear so many times together, both in restoration and in ethnicity, and so it is a small municipality, but surely with one perspective that these young ones remain to run away from it, I think this amendment has been established. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26801	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 215 MPs Mato Gavran, Mato Arlović and Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26802	It is about the reconstruction of the building of the primary school Mijac Stojanović Babina Greda, the amendment is not accepted, because the funds for these purposes have been provided to the county and cities since 2001.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26803	Agent Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26804	Yes, that's a good point, Mr. Secretary of State. Only if local self-government units had sufficient resources for all these purposes. I'll tell you, Babina Greda is one of the largest settlements in Vukovar-Srijem County, one of the richest exclusively agricultural settlements and there's not enough money for a cold drive. For these very reasons, we have also proposed this amendment so that children will have at least minimum living and working conditions in other parts of the Republic of Croatia regardless of what is in the eastern part of Croatia. I think it is the government's primary task to ensure an even division of all parts of the Republic of Croatia, and this is not visible from this. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26805	Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 216 MPs Radiir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26806	Reconstruction of the building of the elementary school of Lepoglava. The amendment is not accepted for reasons that I already don't know which time I explained, that we don't have such opportunities. But I would like to say that I note that within the framework of the C5 programme implemented through the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, the project of building a sports hall located at that primary school is realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26807	Because there is no representative of Cacic in the hall. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. 217 amendments by representatives Mate Arlovic, Ljubice Brdarić, Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26808	It's about building an Orehovic elementary school. The amendment is not accepted for any known reasons for the competence of construction. But I would like to point out that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is known to be the problem of the Roma population attending this school, and the need for resolution, the need for this population in the future, in the future, the ministry will address in cooperation with the Međimurje County that we have already successfully solved several projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26809	Agent Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26810	Okay, I don't think commenting on this is necessary. If they're going to solve it, then I'm withdrawing this amendment. But I hope that finally this population and this village will get a quality elementary school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26811	Amendment withdrawn. Amendment 218 MP Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26812	The amendment is not accepted. Construction of the building of the primary school at Torib, for the reason that the planned funds for this purpose are in line with the plans, the commitments that will take place on this capital project during 2005, why this ministry has provided certain resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26813	Representative Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26814	I have to protest, I mean, what was made the opposite of what I was looking for. So I asked for an increase in funds to build a primary school at Torib's. The project is worth over 20 million kuna. The budget envisioned 2 million kunas, I suggested that it be 4 million kunas. But unfortunately for the government's amendment, these two million kunas have been reduced to another million kuna. How, when and how will this elementary school and the hall be made is not clear to me? In addition, 5 million kunas are foreseen in the budget as of next 2006, and nothing is foreseen afterwards. I don't know how this project is going to be done. Which is a win and what great support the ministry is, but it looks only in words. I also protest that it has been reduced, which is reduced funds for building a school hall at the Mala Subotica elementary school, these are two projects which are this amendment, the new amendment of the government which has reduced income, so. I don't know why the Međimurje County is on strike by the Ministry and Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26815	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26816	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26817	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 219 by Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26818	It's about building an elementary school in Orehovica, it's worth everything I've said about Amendment 217, so I want to make it clear here that we've been building a lot lately and we've been building in the area of Međimurje County, as well as in Mali Subotica and at Toriba and we've been making a commitment and what we've been planning to finish it in the planned period.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26819	Representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26820	Thank you very much. I expected this amendment to be rejected, because when I can't accept the amendment of my colleagues to Glavas, of course they won't be accepted either. In the future, however, I have tried this time, Mr. Secretary of State, to start the school at least with initial funds, because you know that it cannot be completed in a few months, not only as a capital investment, but also to solve the problem of the school standard of national minorities, because it is a school where more than 50% of the members of the Roma community are in Međimurje. And I believe that with this programme Croatia can also run and offer for international programmes. And in the future, if not in the next year that school would not enter the program, then I will not defend and propose to myself, but rather members of the Roma community who have the greatest interest in building that school. And I'm asking for a vote. I don't know if it's in front of the Parliament, somewhere else, but it'll be active. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26821	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 220 MP Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26822	It is also about building an elementary school in Orehovica, so for the same reasons as I have explained so far, this amendment is not accepted. But I want to point out here, because there are a lot of amendments that talk about capital building in the Republic of Croatia. We have seen, inherited this problem and we understand that the Croatian education system cannot be quality with three-way work, with lack of buildings. It is our goal and we are looking for ways and I want to say this here in public in the Croatian Assembly of Decisions that in the short time in Croatia we get the situation that we have maximum two-way work, and in the perspective of one-way work, because these high criteria measured how they are in the countries of the European Union. I believe that for the next budget we will be able to offer some better solutions and we have some discussions with the World Bank, which is also part of the overall financial loan for education in Croatia to be used in the construction of these halls. Therefore, I would like to inform the honourable representatives that we will probably come to a solution very quickly in the perspective, so where you will be able to run for your projects to get better quality conditions in buildings, sports courts, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26823	Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26824	I'm glad the secretary of state sees this problem this way. We have 7 or 8 primary schools in which participation in education has a Roma population, which we estimate good schools, that they finish primary schools, and more and more of them and secondary schools. Recently, we have several students from that population, and they can be seen when taking care of their schooling, especially when taking care of their preschool education and their preparation, so that they can even go to primary school to have results. A specific school is probably working under the worst conditions of all primary schools in Međimurje County. The Orehovica municipality, spotting such a problem from its small budget, has actually given up some revenue, so that they have secured a plot of 17 thousand square metres, freed the payment of a municipal contribution of 194 thousand kuna, the county funded projects. So it's already ready for realisation, and if you can really find the possibility that this year it's already starting to happen and this project. I also regret that in these two, projects that are actually competing precisely because of this population, there has been a reduction in funds, I should note that most of the other primary schools and high-participating facilities are funded by the county, municipalities or the city, and we are only looking for funding from the budget for those projects that the state should be involved in. I will still ask to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26825	Who's in? He didn't get the amendment he needed most of it. Amendment 221. Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26826	So again, it's about building an elementary school in Orehovica. So new buildings. The amendment is not accepted for any known reason, but since representatives from Međimurje are very active, I would like to say very clearly: we have just completed the school in Dozmourac, the Archer. We also left the buildings, and almost finished in Little Saturday. In Kotoriba, a foundation stone was placed. We are also interested in Orehovica, but we must really be realistic in these requirements and, and in other places such as Kurshanovec is an exceptional school. It should therefore be said that it is a very active county and that we have excellent cooperation with that county and we have seen all the problems with the Roma population and I think a major shift has occurred in a short time. So a little patience and this project will be on track soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26827	Representative Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26828	There is indeed no other way to help the Roma population, and therefore our inhabitants of Međimurje... to solve this problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I hope that this will be done as soon as possible, so I am withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26829	Amendment withdrawn. Amendment 222.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26830	Yeah. I must say that this amendment to the construction of a sports hall in the primary school of the town of Čakovec is not accepted for a known reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26831	Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26832	In fact, in the area of the town of Čakovec, there are three other schools that do not have adequate facilities for physical culture or have no sports halls. Now type projects have been developed, which I think is very good, which is costing the project documentation itself, as well as building for these three schools. Of which, at the Ivanovac elementary school, the city participated with 70% in the construction of a new facility. The first elementary school is an old school that is only being held but has no gymnasium, and the basic school Kušanec is also with 60% financed from the city budget when it was adaptation and upgrade and I actually run this project for co-financing from the state budget because in the primary school Kursanec of 422 children 229 is a Roma nationality. So 55%. Here I would say a successful project that is being implemented together with the Roma community, which is what children who started primary school in Kursanac this year went through one year's preschool training and really have good results in it, and they will have no problem following the class with the other children at that school. The sports hall would really mean a lot in socialization and these children because they could also be engaged in sports and thus be in the company of their school colleagues of Croatian nationality. I would still like to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26833	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 223.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26834	It is about construction, proposed construction of Donja Velika's district school. The amendment is not accepted for known reasons because since 2001, county and 32 cities have been committed to the capital project.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26835	Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26836	Well, I know exactly what city and county obligations are since 2001. Here, however, is the obligation of the Ministry of Education or of science and education to define what are the minimum standards. This is about a school that doesn't have minimum standards, which is dangerous for a student's life. In one classroom there is a combined class, 4 classes with two teachers where while one teacher speaks another teacher must remain silent. And it can't happen. There's no class at all. No drinking water. Electrical installations are dangerous to the lives of children. This would be possible if, therefore, the state increased decentralised resources. I'm not looking for an item. I ask you to reduce the intellectual and personal services at the External Valuation Centre which account for 85% of the budget of that Centre from 4 million to millions of kuna and that these 3 million shifts to... Decentralised funds, establish a minimum standard of that school in Donjo Velika and the town of Koprivnica will build that school. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you can't say that by establishing minimum standards, the Ministry defines how much decentralised funds it will transfer to cities and municipalities. The cities and municipalities were thus obliged to build these schools. They are provided that the Ministry approves and the necessary funds for this in the Fund for Alignment, or in decentralised funds, which did not happen this year either. And I'm asking you to send an inspection to this school that will determine the conditions for the education of those children and have them close that school and then let you and I explain to the parents where the children are going to go to school. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26837	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 224 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26838	Yes, it is about building the Trema District School and the elementary school of Grigor Knights, St. John Žabno. For reasons already explained, the amendment cannot be accepted but I would like to say to the honourable representative that this year, for the 2005 budget, the state budget will be left to the county and cities of almost 51 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26839	Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26840	I know that you will give more than 55 and 60 million, however, in the distribution of these funds did not respect the criteria of minimum needs. You know that Koprivnica-križevnica and Virovitica-Podravska County are the only two counties in which no school or sports hall is built from the state budget. And it was correct to get into those two counties to give more money than it was given in the other county. You had some other criteria and you gave everyone according to those criteria as if until now all the county and all the cities had been affected in the same way. I have proposed here, and here the municipality has secured land and developed an idea project to provide a locational permit to simply make official trips to the Ministry that have been achieved at 440 thousand kuna in the first 11 months with an estimated million and 200 as scheduled for next year, which is three times as much on the sufficient 700 thousand kuna as it is twice this year, and that these 500 thousand kuna simply decentralised, the County of Koprivnica-Crysing so that it can start with this project. So it's not working here that the Ministry has to build. No, I don't. Just let the Ministry decentralise the necessary funds for counties and cities that care about primary schools and secondary schools according to needs. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26841	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 225 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26842	Yeah, it's about building Legrad elementary school. As I explained for the same reasons, it is not possible to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26843	Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26844	So I want you state secretary here to know the situation that this is a primary school that doesn't have a sanitary node. That, unfortunately, children have to perform the emergency in the yard in a manual sanitary node that it is a school that has no drinking water, and that they are therefore not creating normal conditions for education, there are no conditions for education in the elementary school in Vegrad. According to whom I am only asking here to decentralize Koprivnica Crossing County, so that it may begin to solve this problem. Or suppose these rents and rents are this part of a million kuna that I'm looking for here to rent space in Vegrad where children can go under normal conditions. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26845	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 226. Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26846	The proposed construction of the Subotica school is not accepted for known reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26847	Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26848	Looks like you and I aren't gonna make it to the green branch. But here I propose to reduce intellectual personal services in the Ministry of Science, where they are proposed to increase by four times, so by four times they increase that. And that part of these funds is decentralized by Koprivnica Crossing County so that it can start building the necessary building of a new regional school building in Subotica because children go to a building that was built more than 100 years ago. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26849	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 227 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26850	Yes, it is a representative who proposes to build a student home in Križevci. Nor can this amendment be accepted because since 2001, this has been moving into the area of funding for local self-government. And I want to say once again that from the title of the high school obligations that the ministry of about 33 million kuna was committed to decentralised funds in capital investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26851	Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26852	But Secretary of State, give us how much you've left to any county you've left to the city. You have left again, not according to the needs, not according to what the state budget has been to certain areas so far, and for example in Koprivnica Crossing County, most schools have been built by self-dependence of citizens or voluntary work of citizens. And from 2001 to today, apart from the center of sub-level sun, no other school has been built by state budgets in the area of Koprivnica Križevci County. Unlike 170 other places in which schools are built from the state budget. I suggest here to cut the $20 million item to 19 million for publishing scientific books and textbooks. Because this item was spent only 10 million kunas this year, and it is assumed that the next year that 20 million kunas will not be realized. I therefore ask that these funds be decentralised to the Koprivnica Cruise County so that they can start building this facility. It is a student home where children who attend the best agricultural school in the Republic of Croatia are located. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26853	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 228 of MPs Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26854	Building a new elementary school in Dugi Selo is proposed. The amendment is not accepted for any known reason. Because the funds for this capital facility need to be realised in the counties and cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26855	Representative Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26856	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, there are 1400 students in Dugi Selo, although under the existing rule, elementary school must not have more than 800 students. In Dugi Selo children go to the existing school in 4 shifts and all watches are shortened in the eyes are not able to realize the obligations and curricula and program. Like a colleague of Mršić's to send an inspection there, we'd have to shut down the school. Although the reasons are known so we had a story last year, I thank you for having respected last year's amendment to me and my colleagues Mršić for the construction of 4 secondary schools in Bjelovar. Well, hopefully next year you'll accept this initiative for Long Village. Because obviously there's one year behind on what we're proposing here. And that there is money in this country, so you can find 12 million kunas for a school in Dugi Selo is just the fact that for international cooperation, MORHA funds are increasing by 31 million kuna, despite the fact that the army will not go to Iraq, Afghanistan and the like. Therefore, there is obviously money in this country and there is no will to be used to build a school in Long Village. Like other schools, Mršić spoke in Koprivnica Crossing County. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26857	Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 229 MPs Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26858	It is proposed for 6 secondary schools in Split to build a sports hall. The amendment is not accepted, but it should be said that the assumptions are yet to be made for the start of its serious realization. It is a project that entered the plan before 1 July 2001 so that, in accordance with the 2005 commitment plan, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports will provide enough funding for this to be built in the coming years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26859	Agent Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26860	Thank you very much. It is pleasant to hear only hope that it will be in due course and realized. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26861	Thank you. You're looking for a vote. Retracted. Amendment 230 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26862	Yes, it's about building a crafts-based technical school in Split. The amendment is not accepted but for reasons why this capital project started before 1 July 2001 only create assumptions for the start of its serious realization. Under the 2005 commitment plan contract, enough money will be provided to finance it in the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26863	Agent Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26864	Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26865	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 231 MPplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26866	Mr. Representative proposes building a high school building in Koprivnica. The amendment is not accepted for reasons I explained several times today. But it seems to me that the needs are great in that very city but also in that county. To well consider, a model of the Međimurje County could be applied, where the county and the town of Čakovec were particularly involved. And I'm sure the perspective needs to be solved. It's a serious problem that you've listed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26867	Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26868	Well, of course the needs of the big secretary of state are because the state in that county didn't build schools. They built citizens with self-dependence and voluntary work. And logically, the needs are great. But as far as the High School building in Koprivnica, the city and the county have already seriously involved themselves, the city has secured land, the city has developed a project of documentation for a decade will be a master's permit. The city and the Ministry offered a project... partnership models to build it. And we asked the ministry to participate in this project in a way that is precisely through decentralised funds in the future to be assured that the rent of this space can be financed. We have not come to an understanding for now in the ministry, I expect the ministry to accept the model of partnership in private and public. As a model of building a school in the Republic of Croatia in general, as well as guidelines of the European Union. We're talking about a school where in twenty-five classrooms go 85 classrooms where classes take place in three shifts, where classes take place in a way that children go to practice so that others can go to those classrooms. So there are really unconditional spaces, for a city like Koprivnica. Here everything is ready for construction and we will find a way to build that building, but really the Ministry should be wondering if the time has come for a previous school in Koprivnica to be built with state money. The citizens of Koprivnica single out huge tax revenues to the state budget. I, of course, am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26869	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. On amendment 232 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26870	Mr. MP proposes building a high school building and Streljanec Križevci. The amendment is not accepted for known reasons that I don't know which time I explained, so, because it belongs to decentralised functions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26871	Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26872	But you can't explain why, then, you didn't give Koprivnica and Križevci County more money with decentralised than 60 million than to some other counties where the State budget generously invests in school facilities. Otherwise, as for the construction and your remarks that both the city and the county should be involved, two primary schools have been built in the last two years in Koprivnica-Kristevci County, and the town of Koprivnica has restored two district schools which, 50 years have not, have not been invested in them still going to investment maintenance in schools that have not been renovated for 14 years, so we have to change the carpentry, because 14 years there was no money to paint it. This is about a situation similar to Koprivnica. The course takes place in 3 shifts and unfortunately, neither in Koprivnica nor in Križevci can sufficient registration quotas to ensure that all areas go to high school in their city. Children must go to other cities for education. It's sad for a county like Koprivnica-križevska, but also for one ministry. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26873	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 233 MP Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26874	Mr. MP proposes building the Buje Professional School. The amendment is not accepted, because this is in the jurisdiction of the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26875	Agent Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26876	Here, a moment ago, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Mršić mentioned how much Koprivnica-Krisjevaca County received through this budget. He says, probably the least. For the County of Istria, I know she got through capital investments of only 30 million kuna. That's really rude. I don't know how much Koprivnica-crossing is. But here, what are we looking for? We're asking to secure only 2 million kunas for the adaptation of the Professional School in Bujam. It is simply about one of the economic, otherwise interesting space, Novigrad, Bujama, Umag, Bratomigli, Oprtlja, Grožnjana and bearing in mind how much these spaces are participated in the state budget, it would be correct when they are not already represented in this budget with no kuna to address their needs to target at least those 2 million kunas, so that this vocational school can be adapted that children can be able to attend teaching in Bujam uninterrupted. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26877	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 234 of MP Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26878	It is proposed to build Karlovac School Sports Halls. Co-financing is required. The amendment is not accepted and rejected for the same reasons I just explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26879	Representative Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26880	The reasons are clear to me. The funds are decentralised, but unfortunately they are not decentralisationd according to needs and they do not decentralisation in such a way that what has started to end. These, these objects in the amendment are already started, some of them at the very end, if there will be no state aid, and I don't know if it will be, perhaps, decentralised means, very difficult for the city of Karlovac and the county to solve for themselves. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26881	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of 235 MPs Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26882	This calls for co-financing of the construction of the Varazdin Sports Hall. The amendment is not accepted for the reasons I already explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26883	There's no representative of Cacic in the assembly. Please vote. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 236 of Biserka Perman's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26884	Yeah. Here is the promotion of public needs for sports for the Croatian Olympic Committee, asking for an increase of 30 to 50 million kuna. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that, in 2005 with 30 million kuna, the regular programme of the Croatian Olympic Committee, the financing of national sports alliances, the local sport-promoting programmes will be financed, while for the possible financing of the preparation of the 2006 Winter Olympics Torino and the Mediterranean Games in 2005 will carry out consultations in the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the assistance from the budget reserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26885	Agent Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26886	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, in the light of the budget, it states that this item is formed in accordance with the request of the Croatian Olympic Committee, i.e. their financial requirements for participation of Croatian athletes in multisport games, and that it is the same as in 2004. However, it is known that the same as in 2003, as it is known this year, was insufficient for quality monitoring of national selection programmes in major international competitions. This is evident from the presentation of the President of the Croatian Olympic Committee during the debate on the reports of the Croatian Olympic Committee last week, as well as from the data on the implementation of the budget for the first 10 months, where it is evident that as much as 25 million were spent over the plan. If you take into account what you said, that will be additionally financed from the budget reserve, which is exactly what I asked for, I don't see any reason why you didn't accept my amendment. Well, since you didn't respect him after all, I'd like to appeal to my fellow athletes on the opposite side of the hall to support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26887	Please, who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 237 MP Srecko Ferenčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26888	It's about the same amendment, so it's worth the same explanation. Therefore, the amendment is not accepted from the given explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26889	There's no representative in the hall. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 238 of MP Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26890	It's about building a sports hall in Novigrad. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that after 2001 it is moving to a lower level of funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26891	Representative Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26892	Dear Mr. Vice-President, Secretary of State, here, I've had the intensities to make a better redistribution of finances, because the Olympic Centre on Beolasica gets 8 million kuna, and in a few years we won't have anyone to send to that Olympic Center, because we don't have sports halls where athletes would be raised and then continue in the Olympic spirit. There is not a single sports hall in Novigrad, and therefore I appeal that this figure of 2 million kuna be accepted for the start of the building of the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26893	Are you asking for a vote? Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 239, MP Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26894	The deal is, the proposal is for representatives to build sports halls in the area of Koprivnica-križevci County. The amendment is not accepted for known reasons which I have repeatedly explained to Mr. MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26895	Yes, Secretary of State, I didn't expect you to accept the amendments. I simply wanted to introduce you once again, you and your colleagues in this assembly to the disastrously poor condition and conditions in which children are educated in the area of Koprivnica-Kristevnica County. My appeal was sent to the ministry to decentralise more funds to Koprivnica-Kristevci County, and these amendments went towards the fact that there are items that can be done with, because some items in the administration and administration of the ministry have grown up to eight times. So the money's there, it just needs to be properly deployed. What is the fact that the ministry gives the conditions for school work, the ministry sends a commission that defines that school can start working, but after that, other than controlling pedagogical standards does not control what conditions children go to education. Therefore, the ministry bears responsibility for our schools and sports halls. It is the obligations of cities and counties to build through decentralised funds, but the ministry defines minimum standards. This is about building schools in Novigrad Podravski, Klostr Podravska, Kalinovac, Virje and Rasinja. I think children in these municipalities have the right to have a gym and physical health culture during the winter, without talking about having the right to play sports. One hundred seventy-something schools are being restored from the state budget, none in the area of Koprivnica-križevci County. I'm giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26896	Amendment withdrawn. Amendment 240 of Biserka Perman's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26897	The MP proposes to encourage the development of sports on islands in a way that increases from 150 thousand kuna to a million kuna. The amendment is not accepted for reasons because it is only a pilot project and data collection is under way on the need to develop sports on islands and, if necessary, the need for ex-post funding will be sought through the rebalancing of the State budget in 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26898	Agent Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26899	Mr. Secretary of State in charge of the budget states that it is very important to encourage sport as a prerequisite for the remaining young population on the islands. This is in itself sufficient reason to accept this amendment, but I note, as you said, that you should record the state of sport on the islands and support those islands' environments and projects that already have developed sporting activities as well as those that have just begun. Given the number of our islands, the estimated amount is really minor, and it really wouldn't have any effect to achieve, so that's why I'm asking for this increase. But since the activities of sports programmes during summer and winter holidays are open school, still at the level of the pilot project, without an accurate calculation of the necessary funds, I believe that the reduction of this item would not have a significant impact on its implementation, and given the fact that in the training activities of non-swimmings in schools, work on the means that I have provided for the amendment in the means of so-called. intellectual and personal services, therefore for instructor fees, I believe that the programme could also be implemented through the involvement of students who would be treated as a practice. Thus, the programme would be financially relieved and received part of the means to encourage sports on the islands. As for the reduction of the item of the ministry building for only 7% of the planned funds, I do not think it would compromise the plan, but it would round up the projected funding for the implementation of the sports programme on the islands and therefore make a significant step towards keeping young people on the islands, and this is also real and maintaining their physical and mental health, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26900	Who's in? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 241 by Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26901	The amendment shall not be accepted on the grounds that the amount specified is sufficient to carry out this non-ply training activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26903	Mr. Secretary of State let me note that the funds in this position are too small to ensure continued education and transportation and bringing children to places where the nearest pools in Sisak-Moslavina County exist. If you don't know, schools don't have swimming pools, and the only one that exists is the city pool. This is therefore about the additional means to be provided for the transport of children and the organisation of their swimming learning. I have to admit that I don't think the proposed funds are enough for that county or for the other county in the state of Croatia. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26904	Who's in? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 242 MPs Maria Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26905	The amendment is not accepted, since the accommodation and nutrition of students is not only financed from this activity but from the activities of improving the student standard. The amount for the Student Centre Zagreb is planned on the basis of the average amount of consumption in recent years, and under the activities the improvement of the student standard is planned for the possible higher use of students' rights in the school area of the City of Zagreb, Zagreb County and Moslavačko-Sisa County.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26906	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26907	It's very interesting, Mr. Secretary of State, because you're also reducing these funds to improve student standards, but I have an amendment to that, and we'll talk about it later. So the ministry announced the collection of accommodation and nutrition prices for students in dormitories. It is known that according to the regulation on the structure of the food price, the ministry participates with 50% of the amount, and in the structure of the accommodation price with 73.56% of accommodation. It is true what you said that the ministry is not only paying the price, but it is also a fact that the purchases it must come to because prices have not changed for too long, and thus students agree, the burden of the collection cannot be borne only by students but should also foresee an increase in funds on this activity. That there is money in this country is evidence, the fact that, for example, in the Ministry of Finance for Administration and Administration, funds are increasing by around 10 million kuna, and in the first 10 months of this year, not even 50%. Therefore, if it is more important for this country to be administered to the Ministry of Finance than to provide sufficient funds for the nutrition and accommodation of students of the Student Centre in Zagreb, I personally have something against it but I do not think it is good for this country, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26908	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 243 MP Happy Ferenčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26909	Mr. Vice President, given that the same amendment is only for another representative, I would like to say that the amendment is not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26910	Since he's not in the hall, please vote. Who's in? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 244 MP Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26911	It is about accommodation and nutrition of students of the University of Osijek. It's about a similar amendment. The amendment is not accepted, the reasoning is the same as for the previous amendment only refers to the territory of the city of Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26912	Be my guest, Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26913	My argument and disagreement are similar. Namely, the ministry announced the purchase of accommodation and food prices for students and students in dormitories. It is known that in the price structure, the ministry participates with 50% compared to the accommodation of 73.65% of the food price. If the collection is to take place, and I personally believe that it should, and so do the students, it is not good for all the burdens of the collection to be borne by students alone, but for this, this item should also be increased in the state budget. That you have money to edit your building and equip your ministry building means increasing 5 million kunas of which 1.5 million kuna only for furniture. So please don't buy yourself new furniture in the ministry, but increase the funds for subsidising accommodation and nutrition in the University Centre of Osijek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26914	You're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26915	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26916	Who's in? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 245.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26917	The accommodation and nutrition of students of Rijeka University is not accepted as the accommodation of the students is not only funded from this activity, but from the activities of improving the student standard. The accommodation and nutrition of students of Rijeka University is not accepted as the accommodation of the students is not only funded from this activity, but from the activities of improving the student standard.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26918	Representative Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26919	Interesting, Mr. Secretary of State, because the active improvement of student standards also decreases in this budget but a little later. We have already established that the Ministry participates in a certain share of the price, accommodation and nutrition of students, this Government and this Ministry plans to increase the cost of accommodation and nutrition in dormitories, which is fine but the burden of purchase and prices cannot only be borne by students and this item should also be increased in the state budget. DA has in this state money is proof that the funds for the intelligence agency are increasing by 5 million kuna, so if there is funds to increase 5 million kuna for the intelligence agency I think there should be money for co-financing of accommodation and nutrition students in Rijeka, therefore please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26920	Who's in? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 246 MP Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26921	It is about accommodation and nutrition of students of the Split student centre, the amendment is not accepted because we believe that these funds are sufficient for these planned activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26922	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26923	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, if the funds are sufficient, it means that we will either reduce the number of students or I will not increase the cost of accommodation and nutrition, which should be increased, which is your proposal, and I agree with the students and myself personally. It is not good that the burden of increasing accommodation and nutrition rates is borne by students only but should also be increased in the state budget. I have foreseen and I propose this amendment that for this amount of 2 million kuna, the funding provided for the intelligence agency is reduced because I do not see why the funds for the intelligence agency would be increased 5 million kuna and on the other hand that we do not have enough resources to subsidise accommodation and diet students in Split. Only if the intelligence agency may not have any activity towards students who speak against the government. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26924	Who's in? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 247 MP Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26925	Accommodation and nutrition of the Split student centre, the amendment is not accepted because the accommodation and nutrition of students is not only financed from this activity but from the activities of improving the student standard.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26926	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26927	In addition to not providing sufficient funds for subsidisation in this budget, accommodation of food for all student centres, so neither for the Šibenik student centre, which is here and you are reducing the funding for programmes to improve the student standard we will discuss later. I propose for the projected increase in funding for 400,000 kuna, to be removed from the position of the central state office for the development strategy, because I think instead of creating some fluid strategic projects for the Government that you invest better in students because this will really mean that this Croatia has a developing future or that it is much better than creating mere paper, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26928	Who's in? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 248 of MP Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26929	It is about the accommodation and nutrition of students of the University of Varazdin, the amendment is not accepted for the already known reasons that I have explained because we believe that the funds are sufficient and in terms of investment in students in other items we have far more expanded these investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26930	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26931	Mr. Secretary of State, if the resources planned are sufficient, one of the following two things will have to be done by law of physics. The first is to reduce the number of students and the second is that the burden of the need to collect the price of services and accommodations themselves is November and I think it is one and the other is impossible and the other is bad for the students themselves, I cannot believe that as a government that advocates science, you do not invest enough in the student standard to start Croatia and you do not plan enough funds to subsidise accommodation and diet students both in Varazdin and other student centres, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26932	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 249 of MP Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26933	Accommodation and nutrition of students, the student centre Slavonski Brod amendment is not accepted because the amount for the Slavonski Brod student centre is planned on the basis of the average amount of consumption in recent years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26935	You planned on the basis of the average amount of consumption in the last year then you certainly know that the Ministry... accommodation prices participates with 50% and in a diet of 73.65% you announced the cost of accommodation ai diet for students in student homes which support student associations and myself personally, I think it is not good that we increase the funds for the purchase of new cars for the government by 3.2 million kuna and do not provide sufficient resources for accommodation and nutrition students in the Slavonski Brod student centre as well as in other student centres in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26936	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 250 MP Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26937	The amendment is not accepted because the amount for the Požega student centre is planned on the basis of the average amount of consumption in recent years, and under the activities the improvement of the student standard is planned for possible greater use of students' rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26938	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26939	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, you have announced an increase in the cost of accommodation and nutrition of students in dormitories, you know well that the Ministry of Education participates in a certain share, if what I believe is to happen is not enough and will not be able to order from the item for student standard improvement programmes because you are also reducing that item in this state budget, and ultimately, it would be a bit of an accidental spending of funds from this state budget, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26940	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 251 of MP Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26941	It is a matter of accommodation and nutrition of students of the Karlovac student centre, the amendment is not accepted since the amount for the Carlovac student centre is planned on the basis of the average amount of consumption in recent years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26942	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26943	This latest amendment relating to the requirement to increase accommodation and subsidisation funds and nutrition by student centres, it is obvious that in the announced budget rebalancing, we will have to raise funds for these subsidies in view of the announced and necessary increase in the cost of accommodation and nutrition of students, therefore I ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26944	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment of 252 MPs to Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26945	It's about the scholarship of regular students and scientific training. The amendment is not accepted because the proposed amount is sufficient for the planned activities, I would like to point out that these activities are involved, the amount covers the scholarships of 8 thousand students and an additional 2000 in 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26946	Mr. Secretary of State in 2003 for scholarships to undergraduate students we had 60 million kuna, in 2004 we reduced it in the budget, i.e. You've reduced it to 57 million kuna, and now we're holding back on those 57 million kunas, which is the direct consequence of that reduction, that a tender for the award of state grants has just been opened, which in number, the range of users smaller than those we had in the academic year 2003/2004. I'm going to remind you of your pre-election promise to increase the number of scholarship users, I don't understand how you're going to do it with a reduction in funds, it's not good to cut scholarship funds to students, so I'm asking the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26947	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 253 of MP Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26948	It relates to the National Foundation for Science's High Education and Technology Development programmes. The amendment is not accepted. The planned amount of 10 million kuna for the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development is in line with the National Foundation Development Programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26949	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26950	Mr. Secretary of State, recently here in the Croatian Parliament we had a debate on the report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development where the fund manager, Professor Lucin, as well as all MPs and representatives who participated here in the debate unanimously concluded that funds for the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development should be increased. What I ask by my amendment and to increase it to that amount that we already had in 2003, which is far less than what we would actually need in 2005. At the same time, we are increasing funds for the Anti-intelligence Agency in this country by 27 million kuna. I can't believe we don't have money for programmes and projects of the National Science Foundation and we have money for the Anti-intelligence Agency and that's not good, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26951	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 254 of the Representatives of libre, Club of Representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26952	It's about the exact same amendment as it was before. The amendment is not accepted, the explanation is the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26953	Since there is no representative in the hall, please vote. Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 255.Representative Mary Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26954	Student standard improvement programs. The amendment is not accepted, since the planned amount of 90 million kuna is sufficient to cover all planned expenditure related to improving student standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26955	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26956	Mr. Secretary of State, we obviously don't understand each other here in two ways. One thing is what you planned and what is obviously far from what is needed and what is your concept of student standard which is obviously not accepting these amendments quite different from mine. I would just like to point out that in 2003 the amount for student standard improvement programmes was 94 million kuna. You've reduced them now to 90 million kuna, and at the same time you're going to put all those food and accommodation subsidies that we've just been through, and I don't know how you're going to do it all together. At the same time, funds for the Anti-intelligence Agency are increasing by 27 million kuna, and we are reducing funds for students. I think it is not good and that such a responsible Croatian Parliament should not bring such a budget and that it should accept this amendment. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26957	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 256, MP Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26958	It is proposed to adapt and rebuild the high school building in Karlovac. The amendment is not accepted because the funds for these purposes are proposed on the capital project number K-407410 of higher schools and higher schools combined, and will be used according to the proposal of higher schools and universities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26959	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26960	Mr. Secretary of State, I've seen that item, I've seen it, too, so that the government, with its amendments today, has brought that item down from a shameful 15 million to an even more embarrassing 12 million kuna. This speaks of how much the government cares about the development of higher education, the descripting, the descripting of Croats and how quickly we want to catch European standards on this plan. The high school in Karlovac is an institution that was founded seven, eight years ago. Today there are a thousand 700 students, working on three locations under inappropriate conditions. From the Ministry of Defence about a year ago, Veleučište received a beautiful military service in the centre of the city that was once a cadet school, so it fits the function. The military is in the state they are in. The whole complex's resuscitation project, which would be significant for the town of Karlovac, because it is located in the heart of the city, is worth 40 million kuna. 12 million kunas are scheduled for all 6 higher schools, 6 I think there are them in Karlovac and all the higher schools in Croatia, for capital investments. It's not literally enough for anything. So I have proposed an amendment that this investment that has and extends cultural importance, not just the importance of an educational institution is removed from those 12 million kunas that don't mean anything, and I think that the Government should have an understanding of what it has defined itself in its promises. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26961	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 257. The Club of Representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26962	It is about the capital investment of the University of Josip Juraj Strossmayer in Osijek, rectorate and university. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the planned funds are sufficient for the commitments made and planned during 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26963	No representative, please vote. Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 258. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26964	It also suggests increasing funding for universities and higher schools. The amendment is not accepted because the funds for these purposes are proposed on the capital project number K-407410 of higher schools and higher schools combined and will be used according to the proposal of higher schools and universities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26965	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26966	Mr. Secretary of State, it's not about capital investments. It's about the need to finance studies. A maritime study opened in Zadar in 2003, and an initial resource was then provided. In this budget, as for last year, no funds have been provided, so this study has been provided for for the third year by the funds of the County of Zadar, the city of Zadar and the Tanker's navigation from Zadar, which is certainly insufficient. And it just takes this kind of funding to be calculated in this amount for next year so that the maritime study, actually for teaching, is not for any building, it wouldn't shut down. The resolution minister has not yet released the study from the University of Rijeka under the University of Zadar. And it is precisely the means that it is necessary to secure it in this particular item as proposed. There is no need to mention what a seafarer is, which means for the entire Republic of Croatia, which means for Zadar and the Zadar region. At the end-end, sailors celebrated Zadar and Zadar's end and brought glory throughout Croatia's sea, around the sea, around the world's seas. It is, therefore, not about capital investments, the respected secretary of state, but about funding for the study. It's so obvious it's a mess.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26967	You're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26968	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26969	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment of the 259th Representative, Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26970	It's about the student centers. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the planned funds are sufficient for the planned commitments made during 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26971	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26972	Mr. Secretary of State, you know that Murphy law when things just can't go wrong and it still happens. This has happened with this paragraph. In 2003, there were 20 million kunas for capital investment primarily in student homes. By rebalancing the 2004 budget, you reduced it to 17 million kuna, now you're reducing it to 10 million kuna, and by this morning's amendment, the government has reduced it to 5 million kuna. We read the papers, the maniac tried to attack a freshman in a dorm room while she was taking a shower. 27.5. student from Sinj beat up at Ante Starčević's Student House. Last year, a ceiling collapsed at the Char Student House here in Zagreb. It is totally unacceptable for you to reduce and thus radically reduce funds for capital programs, i.e. capital investments in student homes, primarily security programmes. We were witnessing that drug addicts were inside, our, a few overdosed persons were found and I think from this government it's quite irresponsible that she succeeded in a year from 20 million kuna to 5 million kuna to cut funds for those dormitories. Because of the importance of this amendment, I'd like to ask Mr. Vice President that we determine the quorum first and then the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26973	I ask the representatives to enter the hall. We'll wait a little longer. 77 MPs. Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 260 MPs Happy Ferencach.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26974	The construction of the Music Academy in Zagreb is proposed. The amendment is not accepted, for the reason that the project of the construction of the Music Academy in Zagreb is under way, and is funded by the unioned banking loan for capital investment at the University of Zagreb, which is at 490 million, and this investment refers to 51 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26975	I beg your vote, since the representative is not in the hall. Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 261 to the Club of Representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26976	The amendment refers to the University of Dubrovnik. The amendment is not accepted, for the reason that the planned funds are sufficient for the planned commitments made during 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26977	For the same reason as the previous one, please vote. Who's in? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 262 of MPs Vesna Škulić, Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26978	It refers to the establishment of a centre for students with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. The amendment is not accepted, since under the activities of improving student standards, the student work programme with disability is also funded. If a centre is established for disabled students, the planned funds under this activity will be sufficient for his work.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26979	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, I don't think we understand each other very well, or you didn't read the project well, the disability student project. In Croatia, therefore, 120 students with disabilities study, and the establishment of a Centre for Students with Disabilities Croatia would join European countries that have such centres and have them, all of which are Moldova, which seems to me in the same status as Croatia. The establishment of such a centre would help secure scholarships, literature for blind students. And we know how hard it is to come and how expensive this literature and teaching aid is, so we put them in an equal position with the rest of the student population. I note that we're not making up anything new, because such centres in England have started working since the '70s. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26980	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 263 of Parliament to Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26981	Here, the amendment proposes an increase of as much as 50 million kuna for scientific and research activities. The amendment is not accepted. The proposed allocation cannot be done above all, and the planned funds for activities are enough for us for 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26982	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26983	Mr. Secretary of State, this isn't about any increase in funding for scientific research projects. We had that item already in 2003, until you cut it down last year. The government that swears to science in research projects was very generous at this congress of Croatian scientists from country and abroad, and now we are reducing 55 and a half million kuna funds for research projects. I repeat again it is far below what in the real situation in 2005 in Croatia should. I only ask by my amendment that you provide those funds for the research projects that we already had in 2003 and that we have already achieved until you have reduced them. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26984	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 264 of MP Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26985	Here is a proposal to increase funding for scholarships and scientific training of graduates. The amendment is not accepted. Because the proposed allocation cannot, above all, be done in this way as you propose, and the planned resources for the activities proposed for which the increase is proposed are sufficient for 2005 according to the current programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26986	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26987	Mr. Secretary of State proposes with its amendment that funding for the scholarship and scientific training of graduates be increased from 6.5 million kuna to 8 million kuna. I repeat, this is no significant increase, given that we already had 8.3 million kuna in the 2003 budget. From your explanation that you said it would be quite enough for the programs you have. I can only say that you do significantly then and less work on the science training projects of postgraduate graduates, i.e. less scholarships to graduates. I would just like to warn that this item in the following budgets will have to be significantly increased especially when considering the European scientific space, i.e. the mobility of students who will become our obligation to implement the Bologna Declaration here in Croatia. I repeat, this is not about any significant increase in funds, this is just about returning funds for the scholarship of graduates to that level already reached in 2003. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26988	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 265 of MP Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26989	The amendment is not accepted. Because the planned amount of up to 10 million kuna for the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development is in line with the development programme of the same foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26990	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26991	Mr. Secretary of State, you're a little confused here, so it's not just 1 million kuna. In 2003 we had planned 15 million kunas because the foundation programs are divided into two, two, two divisions. One section refers to higher education reform programmes. This is about programmes in scientific research, primarily about the transfer from scientific projects to the economy. Here a few months ago, we discussed a programme of science, high education and technological development. At that time, the trustee, Dr. Lucin, asked us and appealed to all MPs and MPs to increase the funds because it was much less than what the foundation should and that such foundations in modern Europe were being singled out, so I would especially ask all those MPs and MPs who were then discussing the National Foundation to prove now that they were indeed then and to think that these funds should be increased. I repeat, it is only that these funds return to the level that has already been in the 2003 budget for projects from this research activity, which go through the foundation. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26992	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 266. It's a club of representatives of Libra.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26993	An extension of the International Centre for Molecular Genetics Split is required. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the reduction of the resources proposed under item 019 of the anti-intelligence agency would be compromised projects and activities financed from that position, and we also believe that it remains absorbed by the government's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26994	There's no club representative in the hall. Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 267 of the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26995	The amendment shall be rejected for the reasons that those resources are sufficient for the activities of multilateral, scientific and technical cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26996	Please vote. Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 268, MP Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26997	The amendment is rejected because the funding provided for education, for human rights, is sufficient to take into account the human resources that restrict the activities of the institution in the implementation of the National Education and Education Programme for Human Rights and Democratic Citizenship.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26998	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u26999	Mr. Secretary of State, in 2003, the amount for human rights education was 700 thousand kuna. With the budget rebalance, you cut it to 382 thousand 73 kuna. Now you're proposing to reduce the resources for human rights education to 310 thousand kuna. A country that has ambitions to enter Europe into a country that is consistent with what is happening on the streets, a fairly low level of awareness and knowledge of human rights. I think it's very bad that you're reducing resources for human rights education. On the other hand, while in the country you suggest that only 310 thousand kunas for the business of the Office of the Prime Minister are allocated 2.4 million kunas. I would ask that the Office of the Prime Minister give up those 400 thousand kunas that are negligible in its 2.4 million kunas in order to invest a little more in human rights education, given that this item that you obviously do not care about is reduced from year to year. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27000	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment of the 269th Representative, Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27001	The amendment is rejected since vocational education will be within the Special Agency, the agencies in the special budget item of the Ministry so that ultimately, they will be allocated more funds than you have suggested.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27002	The amendment is not accepted... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27003	Amandan doesn't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27004	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27005	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, the Department of Education and the agencies have two entirely different roles. Yesterday or yesterday was this consultation about high school where just the people who were primary school principals there and everyone else found that the funds that have been planned so far were absolutely not sufficient. I would pray since in 2003 we had these million 933 thousand kunas for the development of high school education that you have already reduced twice to 437 thousand kuna, to return it to what it was. I suggest that this be removed from the public information item of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the Public Relations Office, the government's funds are increasing by one and a half million kunas in this budget probably to get some new open door, and I think it's much more important that we invest in the development of secondary education than in the V-portal of the Government that would boast of some of its non-existent successes. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27006	Voting?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27007	And you should have listened to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27008	Who's in? The amendment has not been accepted. I thank the Secretary of State. We move on to amendments relating to the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. Amendment 270th Representativeplatmir Mršić. 270th Representativeplatmir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27009	Let me find it. Amendment 270 The amendment requires an increase for the Koprivnica Social Care Centre, however, the estimated 2 million 805 thousand that is proposed to reduce cannot be reduced because it is a grand Japanese, Japanese government and we cannot reduce it, it is fixed. [[Intruder: 70, yes]] And the funds for Koprivnica are secured under the World Bank loan in positions K 618, 352 and 354. So she's not taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27010	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27011	Dear Ministers in the 2004 Budget were, was a special item of the Centre for, building a social care centre in Koprivnica. As you know, the town of Koprivnica has offered land and has offered the opportunity to create project documentation so as to bring the matter to the building permit and to make the settlement of property-legal relations because in Koprivnica unsolved property-legal relations with the company Syllabic where is the Centre for Social Care. With the rebalance of the 2004 budget, this has been deleted and there is no more item in the budget or projections for 2005, or projections in 2006, 2007 at the Centre for Social Care. So I don't see what you said about the loan doing something, right? So obviously the centre has been deleted, and this is about a 30-year-old facility, unconditional, and we have the will and willingness of the city and the county to almost 30% co-finance that investment, or that maybe even from the sale of a part of the facility, that investment would close, and I think 500 thousand kuna would be enough to build a new social care centre in Koprivnica. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27012	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the 271st representative of Mrs. Jagoda Martic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27013	The amendment is not accepted. There is a demand for an increase in reproductive health, however, the funds were reduced in the Ministry of Health because the financing of this problem was transferred to the Croatian Institute of Public Health and the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance in the same amount as last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27014	Here you go, Mrs. Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27015	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I think you too, Mr. Secretary, will agree with me if I say that the most expensive health care system is the one not based on prevention. I think the resources provided for in this budget for the promotion and preservation of reproductive health of women are insufficient and therefore I ask for an increase in them. You have now said that this will be financed through some other funds, but I am interested in giving it with a saying and giving the said amount of funds in these programmes to be allocated to this item. Mr. Secretary didn't hear me. I asked you. If that's the case, then I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27016	I heard, I heard. It's pointed out exactly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27017	Thank you very much. Amendment 271 withdrawn. Amendment 272 by Ms. Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27018	It shall not be accepted because the funds for the prevention of alcoholism have been transferred to item A6 18258. It's called primary and secondary prevention of alcoholism. At 70,000 kuna. And this item had to be marked 0 because we couldn't get it out of the Budget Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27019	Mrs. Marija Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27020	Mr. Minister, I would believe that you have not repeatedly reduced that item to prevent the prevention of alcoholism in young people. Both in last year's budget and in rebalancing calculated for 2004. The problem of alkonolism in young people and what has been identified through the national programme of action for young people is that there must be a special item that cannot be drowned in the primary and secondary prevention of alcoholism. Since specific problems in overdrinking of young people require specific approaches. If you do not want to believe me and accept what I am telling you on the 1.10th of this year, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child was here, it issued recommendations concerning the Republic of Croatia. There is a special chapter relating to the health of adolescents, and in particular point out that what is not good in Croatia and that it is necessary to do this is to create specific items and special progests to prevent drug abuse, in particular highlight alcohol, tobacco use and other activities. Therefore, I would ask you to accept this amendment. The more you do in that same budget where you remove the funds for the prevention of alcoholism in young people for administration in your own ministry, the more you increase the funds by 27 million kuna. That's why I'm asking the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27021	Thank you very much. The vote. Who's in? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Amendment 273 to Alenka Košiša Chichin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27022	The amendment is not accepted because an increase in funding for the programme and prevention of HIV and AIDS from 400 tonnes to 5 million 400. However, we have a much higher amount of 9 million 627 thousand dollars in the grant item of the global fund. These are items T618 086 to 0203. So twice as big as the proposed one we already have, so we don't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27023	Thank you very much. There's no Madam Representative. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 274 of Ms. Jagoda Martic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27024	This amendment requires an increase in the resources to detect breast cancer. However, we have transferred the cost of detecting breast cancer to HZZO and here is only the organisational part. And that organisational part is foreseen in this amount is enough, and that is why this programme is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27025	Thank you. Mrs. Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27026	I would not very much agree with your reasoning because it is evident that the budget for 2004 is being reduced for this item by rebalancing. This year for 2000. So in the 2005 budget, it's shrinking further. And then in some projections for 2006 and 2007, those funds are elevating, so I can't accept you saying you think this is enough. And I suggested that 200 thousand kunas that are foreseen in the position of our kindness begin every treatment. Repurposes just for the prevention and early detection of breast labour. Because I think this in itself means that kindness is the beginning of every treatment, and I think that 200 thousand kunas can be far more useful and spent better in the interest of women's health. Because I don't need to mention how high breast cancer is, how much of a monster it is among women. And precisely the initial and early discovery and how important it is for a successful process of healing and recovery. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27027	Who's up for this amendment? Thank you very much for not getting the necessary majority. We're moving on to 275 MPs for Mrs. Alenka Kosisa Chichin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27028	It is not accepted because I repeat the amendment is similar to this one only requires an even bigger sum. The health ministry does not finance breast cancer detection but is financed by HZZO. These are just organizational programs and there's enough planned amount. So it's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27029	There's no representative. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks a nice amendment didn't get the necessary majority. 276 MPs Mrs. Marija LUgarić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27030	The amendment is not accepted because promotion of healthy nutrition and movement is no longer financed by the Ministry of Health but by the Croatian Institute for Public Health and Health Promotion. As well as health care services that monitors this food problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27031	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27032	Dear Mr. Minister, the obesity and related health problems are becoming a growing public knowledge problem. Especially with children and young people who are related to the way of life. I consider it totally unacceptable to end it as a special activity, so more so that the funds for the Croatian Institute of Public Health did not increase in any way in this budget and will obviously have increased activity, so I ask you to vote. It's not about the large amount, it's only about 100 grand kuna. As I repeat the funds for administrative management of your own ministry, you increase by 27 million kuna, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27033	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. We're moving on to.../The speaker has turned off Alenka Koshasha's representative Chichin Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27034	This amendment requires an increase in the financing of cooperation with citizens' associations because the amount of 2 million and 15 thousand kunas is already provided in individual programmes for associations and everything else is in item 16 18 157, so more than the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27035	Thank you. There's no representative. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 278 MP Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27036	The same argument is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27037	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vesna, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27038	Thank you for your kind explanation, I don't understand, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27039	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 279 MP Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27040	Here you demand a reduction of wages for regular work, these are fixed items and we cannot change them the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27041	Thank you very much. Mroin Zvonimir Mršić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27042	Well, this is about an amendment that I'm looking forward to finally resolving the issue of the reserves of the people of Vukovar living in apartments owned by a state that their state in no way wants to resolve their status. Therefore, he does not want to give them a solution to the lease, nor does he want to give them a solution. But the city's company sends them bills every month for a mandatory reserve. As the reserve is paid by the owner and the owner is in this case state, then it seems unusual that those who are in those apartments without valid documents, and it is about people who had a tenant right up to 90 years old. Then it would be okay for the state to sort out the issue of those reservations in some way. I accept that it is possible that this item cannot be solved, but I ask the Minister to find the means to help these people, not the city's firm, and then not only must they pay it, but also to pay the costs. With that appeal, I'm giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27043	He's pulling. Thank you very much. This amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment number 280 of Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27044	This amendment requires the financing of the House of Retired in Buzet and Pazin. However, pensioners' homes are owned by the county and according to the Law, the funds for construction need to be secured through the budget of local administrations and self-government. The Ministry must not invest in county institutions. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27045	Thank you very much. There are no MPs. He's voting. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. 281st Amendment of Ms. Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27046	This calls for an increase in the financing of the Croatian Institute of Public Health. However, we at the Ministry only finance certain programmes in the Institute and we have agreed and funded them. Everything else is the Institute's own income. Therefore, it is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27047	Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27048	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, we're on this program. We had this amendment last year. In fact, the fact is that the national programme to combat drug abuse accepted in the Croatian Parliament already exists during the 3rd term as early as 97. The most recent amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, Article 13. The Croatian Institute of Public Health is taking over the work of the Croatian Institute for Prevention of Dependence, and Articles 14 and 15 of the same Law determine whether county and city centres are being financed in the same way. In accordance with all of this, it is logical that the budget of the Croatian Institute of Public Health also provides adequate means for the implementation of the law establishing new obligations for prevention and treatment of disease of addiction through centres for extra-patient treatment. You yourself have stated that some programmes in the budget have been abolished and transferred to the Croatian Institute of Public Health. So in this year's budget, you've abolished the treatment-detox funds for addicts, you've abolished the Metadon treatment and you've abolished the funds for habreduction programs, and at the same time you don't increase funds for the Institute of Public Health, and on the other hand, we have a daily increase in the number of addicts. That this, that amendment of the law is obviously unknown, proves to you that you have appointed a commission, which was abolished by these same amendments to the drug prevention law, which may explain in some way that you had to increase by 27 million kuna administrations in your own ministry, because you appoint a Committee for the Prevention and Abuse of Drugs, which is no longer in accordance with the amendments to the law, and you do not finance what non-patient treatment programmes should be financed. So please vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27049	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 282 of Ms. Jagoda Martic's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27050	Here you are looking for an increase in food monitoring and drinking water. Amendments are not accepted, as this is already provided for in the State budget at the position of A618274, implementing a health environmental measure of 400,000 kuna and that is quite enough for next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27051	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27052	I can't quite accept this argument. In fact, if we remember last year's budget, it means for 2004, when a million and 700 thousand kuna were scheduled for monitoring, then the rebalance reduced it to a million kuna, and this year it further decreases to only 500,000 kuna. You said it was supposed to be in a position of ecological sanitary surveillance. However, it, i.e. for health-ecology, but health-ecology under that term is understood, it is a broader concept that includes not only food and water control but also some other segments. I believe that otherwise the scope of the monitoring carried out in Croatia is relatively small, it is insufficient. I was told that, in preparation for the new regulation, it is I who think your, or your secretary of state said when we talked about rebalancing, that it is in preparation for a new monitoring rule to be brought in as soon as possible. As far as I know, it has not yet been adopted, and I believe that this regulation would not reduce the scope, but rather that it should spread, and therefore I believe that this 500,000 kuna item is not enough to have, to get full insight into what kind of food they eat and what kind of water we drink, and that is why I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27053	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Also Madam Representative Jagoda Martic, 283 amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27054	It is not accepted because sanitary supervision is funded by the Ministry of Health only in one segment. The rest is financed from, at the county level. And for that program of ours, that's enough for next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27055	Thank you. Mrs. Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27056	I accept the explanation and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27057	This amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. Amendment 284 of Madam Representative Vesna Škulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27058	This calls for an increase in financial resources for the new Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights. However, we have calculated the necessary amount according to the law, so according to the number of members of the commission times 12 months with all other support from the Ministry's administration, I think it's enough so it's not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27059	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vesna Škulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27060	Thank you. Mr. Minister, 70,000 kunas I don't know, it seems to me that it's very, very ironic that we've been playing with the new Law on Patients' Rights and I don't know why we're even making laws if we're going to treat them like this. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27061	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? The amendment was not accepted, did not receive the required majority. Vice-President Vesna Škulić, also Amendment 285.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27062	Here you are looking for greater giving to help alliances and associations. However, these associations and alliances are also funded from the lottery funds, so we took that into account and therefore envisioned this amount, so we cannot accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27063	Ms. Representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27064	Thank you. Mr. Minister, we all know what it means to strengthen the civil sector and its role in society. It seems to me that this government has no sense of the civil sector and that it does not recognize the role it plays in this society. When it comes to alliances and associations of people with disabilities, it has a double weight. Warning and familiarisation of the state of problems and proposing problem resolution, sensitisation of the public, self-enhancing of people with disabilities. I think we should go to strengthen this relationship, not with less money to make the silence out of this invisible category and quiet population. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27065	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 286, MPs Mato Gavran, Mato Arlović and Ljubica Brdarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27066	It is not accepted because under the Health Protection Act, Article 8 of the Ministry must not be financed by an institution the founder of which is the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27067	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Mato Raven, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27068	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, then it will have to change the law, because as much as it is said today that units of local or regional and regional self-government should finance us should immediately close all doors, because we are not able to finance a minimum. As it is a new city hospital that has suffered severely, and a new city area that has suffered badly in the Homeland War, and as the hospital is being gravitated by areas of special state care, due to the effects of the war, an increasing number of patients in need of such care. I don't know where we're going to take them. As far as Brodskoposavina County is concerned, I am responsible for saying that there is no money, and as far as I can see, there is not enough goodwill in the Ministry that this problem, when it comes to a newly built hospital, and the addition of this wing to a psychiatric ward is resolved. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27069	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 287 of Ms. Ljubice Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27070	We can't accept it as much as before, because it would be against the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The health care law does not allow, and the decentralised funds are just and determined for this purpose, and we do not have them, but local administration does not accept them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27071	This amendment has already been consummated and should not be voted on. Let's move on. 288 representatives Mr Mato Gavran, Mato Arlović and Ljubica Brdarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27072	Same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27073	Same explanation. Here you go, Mr. Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27074	Yeah. It's perfectly clear to me that I'm saying money in the county budget again. We will have to work together to increase our decentralised resources so that we can ensure everything that is necessary for normal life and work, in this case 175,000 citizens of Brod-Posavina County. When it comes to General Hospital Dr. Joseph Bencevic, I am convinced, Mr Minister, that this problem is extremely well known to you. The city hospital is in the heart of the city. The heating and propulsion are completely on the mammut. There have already been a million serious complaints about air pollution and everything else, about moving either the hospital or changing energy. The gas passed the hospital, the city's gas, but apparently the hospital, and even the county has no 7.5 million kuna to change its energy. Once again, I'm afraid we're all going to have a huge problem by the lawsuit of these citizens who are directly in the neighborhood of the hospital itself. If the appeal isn't worth it, and I can see it's not worth it, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27075	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He's not accepted. He didn't get the votes he needed. Excuse me, we are going back to Amendment 287 of MP Ljubica Lalić because it is a different amount. As Ms. MPs are gone, I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Vice-President Ljubica Lalić Amendment 289.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27076	It is not accepted for the same reasons, because acceptance would be illegal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27077	The vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? He's not accepted. He didn't get the necessary majority. Mr. Agent Anton Perusko for 290 amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27078	It's unacceptable. Same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27079	Mr. Representative Anton Perusko, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27080	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, last year I made the same amendment, and you answered Prime Minister Ivo Sanader's government's reply to all the commitments signed by the government, and I have here with me...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27081	Contracts?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27082	Contracts, yes. To take over everything and you said it was an investment of 212 million, that the government was taking over its share of 66 million. I asked 3 million to start making project documentation, you said the plan would be, it wouldn't be illusory to book those funds, to die, and I accepted it as an explanation. But I can see that it's been a year since then, nothing's happened. I tried to make promises that Prime Minister Sanader made by coming to Istria by supporting Istrian development projects, which is certainly very good, to materialise through this vision that after more than a year of your promise we provide these funds and start making project documentation. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27083	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 291 of Mr Zdenko Antesic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27084	It is not accepted for the same reason, because acceptance would be illegal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27085	Mr. Zdenko Antešić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27086	Thank you very much. You, Mr. Minister, as a prominent doctor, certainly know that the dialysis of patients is done in KBC Rijeka, it's a state hospital, it's not even county hospital, it's not a county hospital, and the city of Rab has secured space, so space for a possible hemodialysis centre. And I'd just like to show you some newspaper clips, here are the headlines of patients who go through hell every week, or travel to dialysis from Rab to Rijeka, with you need to know that Rab is on average at least 30 days a year cut off, and what that means for a patient who needs to be dialysisd to you certainly doesn't need to be explained. So there are eight patients on Rab who go on dialysis every week in Rijeka, and here with this secured space in the new home of health, I believe that one department of maybe the Rijeka Hospital in Rab could be equipped and these are the means exactly needed for this equipment, so I ask you to find an understanding of this, primarily because it is an island, an isolated one environment, and that in some future procedures we do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27087	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The Club of Representatives LIBRA 292.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27088	An increase is required for the Osijek Clinical Hospital. We've predicted the payment of 16 million kunas we've taken over. This year, one-third of it is coming and we will be monitoring the development of the hospital in the future according to human resources, but this amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27089	There's no one on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Libre. So who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He's not accepted, he doesn't have the necessary majority. Representative Zeljko Pecek 293 amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27090	We cannot accept the same reasoning, Article 8. The Health Protection Act does not allow this kind of funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27091	There are no MPs. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 294 MPs Mato Gavran, Mato Arlović and Ljubica Brdarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27092	It's about financing Strmac Hospital. We can't accept this amendment, but we have a construction for the Strmac Hospital each other, so we can make a deal later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27093	Okay. I hope, Mr. Minister, that next year we will solve this burning problem and stop the devastation of this facility and therefore withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27094	The amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you. Representative of Mrs Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac 295.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27095	An increase in investment for the Lovran orthopedic clinic is required. We can't accept it because the contract's already signed and we're financing a 16 million-dollar loan, and for the next year, we're being set by that contract. So it's all within the framework of the plan, so we can't accept the increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27096	Madam Representative Dorothy Pesic-Bukovac please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27097	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister of the orthopedics clinic Lovran really needs to complete the rehabilitation as soon as possible and especially the operating room so that patients don't wait two years for hip surgery without saying they also need to equip that hospital because they don't even have the most common ultrasound apparatus. Here's really asking the vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27098	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 296 Club of Representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27099	We don't accept it, same as Lovran. These are the loans we've taken and the dynamics are set by contract. So the works are going, but these wars look less because the war is in a few years. So it's not accepted, and basically that funding goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27100	Thank you very much. There are no MPs. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Mr. Tonino Picula 297.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27101	And here we can't accept but the funding for the rehabilitation of the roof and yard of the Velika Gorica Education Centre is foreseen in the second item of the World Bank, these are the two positions I mentioned and another third item for improving the hygiene conditions, so the three items will be received but this amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27102	Thank you very much. Mr. Tonino Picula, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27103	... We are aware that among us living fellow citizens with additional needs, but there is also... additional needs. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] The center here is the oldest in the area, more than 70 years old and currently has 120 protégés. The situation is bad, I won't say alarming, the boiler room needs to be fixed. There is no money for the most necessary maintenance needs, and I would really like to find the means to address this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27104	From other items.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27105	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27106	Retracted amendment? Thank you very much. This amendment has been withdrawn. Representative Zdenko Antešić 298.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27107	This is where we look for funding from the Center for Social Work with the Stationary. Such an institution, the Centre for Social Work with the Stationary, does not exist in the Law, cannot therefore be included in the financing. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27108	Mr. Zdenko Antesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I thank the Minister for such an elegant refusal, it is very impressive, however, this is not a matter of terminology but a matter of essence, and the issue of essence can be solved if it is of good faith, because look at the situation is next, the city of Rab has secured the space of old home health buildings has almost 1000 square meters of net useful surface and it is now empty and we have in our plans designed for some such facilities a social work center, whether a home for older people because we have a large population of people who need it, we need one social care, something that used to be called a nursing home in the people or. In addition, the Centre for Social Work, or the Centre branch, works in conditions below the civilization level, so I would really pray that there is understanding in that sense if we can't now, in one future time, put a little thing on paper and try to solve it. We have made one analysis or needs of the population, we have big needs of about 150 potential users and the institution would be. With one promise, I would withdraw the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27110	Is he retired? It's not. Who's in? And he's retired. Thank you very much. This amendment has been withdrawn. 299 Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27111	There is a demand for an increase in the resources for the health home of Croatia's Mečenčani ambulance, however, according to the project it takes as much as we have separated it is 500 thousand kuna, and according to the project it is enough and then we cannot accept the increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27112	There's no representative. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 300. Amendment, jubilee representatives Mato Gavran, Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić or in order to...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27113	There is a demand to increase the financing of the investment at home for children Slavonski Brod from 300 to 800 000 we have this year foreseen the purchase of this one apartment for deinstitutionalization and we believe that this is enough since we will add more investments from the World Bank item for raising the hygiene standard, so kitchen and sanitary nodes will be repaired.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27114	Thank you very much. Mr. Mato Raven, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27115	I have to admit, Mr. Minister, despite the fact that this is the 300th anniversary amendment that I really don't understand this time. By listening to you, I recall this year's budget adoption, this item contained 500 thousand kuna, after I asked for an increase per million and a half you did not accept the amendment, I explained that it was children who had to leave home by force of law, you promised generous support and a solution to the problems of those children who have no place to go. With the budget rebalance, I expected your words to be fulfilled personally. NO place 500 thousand kuna and an increase to a million-and-a-half this item has been reduced to 200 thousand kunas, the information I have Mr. Minister's information and believe me, they're fresh, and that money hasn't been spent, there's not a word for these children, someone is seriously misleading you, I'm responsibly saying. This time in the budget for next year, 300 thousand kunas were embezzled, which is not enough to equip a serious apartment for these children. Knowing that it will be very difficult to solve this problem for these children we from the local level despite our poor woman started the project, we made an idea solution, we got from the city building plot, the building permit is near the end and we will build 4 apartments for these children by our own donations. I'm asking you nicely, Mr. Minister, if it's possible to talk about the purchase of an apartment to re-use, to build that house for those children as soon as possible, and to provide these 500 thousand kuna for the necessary equipment to get the children to the safe roof of their heads as soon as possible, because that's all they expect of us. With the request to adopt this amendment, I further ask you to personally advocate that we solve the life problem of these unfortunate children, our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27116	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. The 301st representative of Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27117	It's unacceptable. It's about the increase again for funding the same home, the explanation as worse I say once again that I'll see, I was convinced that the problem was solved with this, I'll see but unfortunately now I can't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27118	Thank you very much. There's no representative. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Representatives Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27119	It is also not acceptable to accept an explanation as in Amendment 280, so it is the county property, the institution and we do not have a legal basis to invest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27120	Thank you very much. I don't want to tell Mr. Minister that you're not sensitized, but obviously someone is giving you false information or semi-information, so when there's no additional sensitivity for children, I don't expect it to be for the elderly and the powerless. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27121	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 303 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27122	Same explanation, unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27123	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27124	Not accepted, same explanation as the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27125	There's no representative. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. 305th Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27126	Unacceptable, same explanation as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27127	Mr. Miroslav Korenik is not here. Who's up for the amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 306 Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27128	An increase is required for education in high schools on HIV and AIDS, however, we already have that item in the global fund that is larger than this proposed, therefore, we cannot accept this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27129	There's no representative. Who's in? No one, the adnman didn't pass. 307 Club of Representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27130	Unacceptable, same explanation as 280 County Institute
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27131	There are no MPs. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much, Prime Minister and Vice President. Now, please, Minister of Justice Mrs. Vesna Scare Ozbolt. 308 MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27132	The amendment is not accepted as a county court in Zadar, for the renovation and adaptation of the building is foreseen an amount of 2 million kuna that is sufficient for the planned changes in the electrical installation of the entire building of the court. Further works on the County Court building are planned in the next period, we have so far taken the footage of the situation and are already moving by the end of this year with the arrangement of the grantovnica which will be financed from the World Bank loan and some budget funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27133	Dear Madam Minister, I am particularly pleased with this for the garland because there are indeed impossible conditions, however, this 2 million kuna funding will not be sufficient because it is not only an electrical installation but also a boiler room and there is indeed also a court expert and inspectors from internal affairs, the police have ordered that measures be carried out precisely, they have the whole lab exactly because it is said in the conclusion, an analysis that, namely in their final... which they have given together that just about every delay can currently cause inconspicuous material and possible human casualties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So also the boiler room and the electrical installation, let's not talk about rebuilding whether, the inside part, because the outside has really been well arranged these past years. And the same thing should work out, and I think here's what I'm using the opportunity for the POA to finally, that these services don't have room in court and move out. We already have a solution, only they got space there, please insist on moving out of court, there's nothing to do anymore. And I ask that it still be voted on on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27134	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 309th amendment of the same representative, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27135	It is not accepted for the reason that we did not plan in the budget money for the reconstruction of the rolling stock because during 2003 and during this year, the mostly renovated judicial car park, we refurbished the park this year, a rolling stock from the funds of our own incomes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27136	Here you go, Madam Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27137	Madam Minister, it's true that the reconstruction of the fleet was started, it's not nearly enough, it was just the beginning because it was supposed to replace those old deroute vehicles for ten, twelve years unsuitable that the judges were just coming to the testimonials in such vehicles, and some don't. So here I am also calling for an opinion on the proposal of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for a general session of the Supreme Court which is just saying that these funds will not be enough for the development of the judiciary, they are enough to survive, but not for further development, and in particular they look at the rolling stock, and then if they find any means at least to provide for investigative judges because this is absolutely necessary. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27138	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 310th Amendment of Mr. Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27139	He's not being accepted. Building a palace of justice for judicial bodies in Koprivnica. This proposed amount cannot indeed be spent because no project documentation and project documentation was drawn up for the following year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27140	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27141	Well, dear Minister, I'll read you what you told me when you refused this amendment to the budget rebalance. So, you said, "The County Court in Koprivnica was not planned in this year, what Mršić suggested, that amount is not enough to prepare the project documentation, so this project remains for the budget for next year." Now you're telling me this project stays for the 2006 budget. However, in 2006 and 2007, there is no projection of the Palace of Justice or the County Court in Koprivnica. I told you that the city and the county are ready to secure land, the city and the county are ready to produce project documentation and then and today I assure you that it takes a maximum of 6 months, but we cannot go to that investment unless the Ministry of Justice is ready and unable to secure the item. You know that you are being acted by the County State Attorney's Office and the Infringement Court in other people's premises in Koprivnica, from which the county attorney's office pays you and the criminal court doesn't even pay the rent. That the county court acts in the areas of the municipal court, that there are not enough courts, that they are waiting to change the judges so that they can dictate the verdicts, and this is about the court, so the municipal court is the most arduous court in the Republic of Croatia and it is about the grantovnica, which is the best gruntovnica in the Republic of Croatia. So, I don't know what I can expect now if you said it would be this year, so now you're telling me it will be next year, and there's no such item until 2007, even though there's a local community willingness to help you with 30% almost in that project. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27142	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. ... Amendment 318 by Ms. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27143	So this is a request for construction, reconstruction and equipment of a municipal court building in Pag, which is planned in the 2006 Budget, so we cannot accept this amendment. We have already begun to partially edit the part that is related to the accommodation of the land and book department and it will be done by the end of this year. So, it's done by means, by means of its own resources, and I believe that the garland will finally be settled. Project documentation has been developed, a building permit has been issued and is going to be built on another floor and will be done from its own incomes next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27144	Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27145	You also do Madam Minister what you claim but this floor, the first floor, is a building with one floor, has a complete wooden structure and that would be at least necessary before going to the upgrade that there, stood up this first floor, and is looking forward to getting rid of the bar garter from those own funds, but I insist on this to secure funds for that first floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27146	And from your own resources will be construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27147	Both? Well, in that case, if that's how it is, then I'm pulling this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27148	This amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you. The 312th representative, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, also.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27149	This amendment is not accepted for reasons why, therefore, it is the Municipal Court in Biograd, rebuilding the old school building. It is not planned for the reason that the building does not fit the needs of the judicial authorities in its size. We were at the interview and in the town of Biograd and the town of Biograd offered a new location to the Ministry of Justice where a new building for accommodation and municipal and criminal courts would be built and this will start next year in cooperation with the city.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27150	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27151	That would be a really good and ideal solution, Madam Minister. However, time is going and at least for next year there are no obstacles to not restoring this old school and at least to accommodate a municipal court that is even more difficult than the Public Court in Pag. It seems to me that this is one of the most difficult situations with Biograd, it is true from year to year only extends, there are even bigger courts, only because there are bigger and bigger needs, but this situation in Biograd has already become so alarming that the once up-to-date court is already, and because of such completely inadequate conditions, it's slightly narrowing down, so here's the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27152	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 313th Representatives Mato Gavran, Mato Arlović and Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27153	This amendment is not accepted. You know very well that we have already bought the court building from rights and from our own incomes, adaptation and equipment of the business space for the County Court in Slavonski Brod is not planned because the building currently meets the basic needs of the court. If there could be another administration in that building without a problem...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27154	Mr. Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27155	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. In the rebalance of the budget, I asked you very precisely whether the necessary funds you said you had planned to spend on both equipment and reconstruction, i.e. editing this court I received a confirmed answer. I got information today that no more lips have been paid to the jury account of the town of Slavonski Brod who sold you this building.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27156	I said it and it'll be paid to the end, they'll be paid next week.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27157	Okay. I hope the mayor and the others are listening, but here's another problem, you know for yourself what condition that building was for other purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27158	The building was perfectly fine, given the other buildings in which they were, you got the building from law, it wasn't planned in the budget for this year. So be patient.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27159	We got a lot of unplanned stuff. I also have a letter from the Supreme Court of Croatia that is just warning about all the problems that are not only the problems of this court, but also other courts. Can we expect next year that at least that space will be painted, if not, I withdraw. Here, the amendment I trust Mrs. Secretary. We'll be patient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27160	The amendment has been withdrawn. And another amendment, not two. Representatives of Ms. Lalić 314.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27161	With the same explanation as Amendment 313.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27162	Thank you very much, ma'am. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović's amendment 315, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27163	This amendment is not accepted, for the reasons that these funds in corruption and organised crime control positions are assessed as sufficient. And if there is a need for further funding, it will be provided either by rebalance or by redistribution of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27164	Dear Madam Minister, I don't think there'll be enough insurance, and because we're being realistic, he hasn't even revived in his first concept yet, they've remained undefined, that bell's being rejected by speech. They remained out of function, not yet in office of two departments of analysis, which is also very necessary for public relations. With the new amendments to the USKOK Act that we are in the SDP Club, it seems to me that the opposition has been fully accepted, voted in favour of this law, for these amendments. However, and in this very proposal to amend the Law in that law, it was argued in that argument that it would be necessary for these amendments to the law to provide new resources, because, as we are now familiar with these amendments to the law, a new department is set up and it is very good for the Department of International Co-operation with the Criminal Court, where funds will be very much needed precisely because of the nature of the job. There will therefore be operational affairs, joint indictments, so all that is now expected and what we, of course, expect and the end of the work of that court of course and the transfer of all these cases before our domestic court. That's why it seems to me here in case a mere case is accidentally not voted on by this amendment, then I suggest you certainly secure those funds there from the common reserve, where it will be necessary. And don't save on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27165	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Minister. We're going to the amendments to the Regional Development Fund, please, Minister Shuker. Here you go, Minister. Amendment 316 to Mrsic's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27166	The government does not accept this amendment for reasons why funds from the Regional Development Fund are being channelled for other purposes and the Government cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27167	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27168	Representative Mršić withdraws Amendment 316. Amendment 317 MP Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27169	The government cannot accept this amendment for the reason we believe that Mr. Representative should have united these three amendments, then they would have been mathematically correct. This is how he proposes at one point that the Varazdin County would increase to 5 million 700, and then propose to 10 and 700, and then in the 3 amendments 3 and 150, so we don't know what the Proposer meant with that amendment. And the government cannot accept this amendment for those reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27170	Okay. There's no representative. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 318 also represents Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27171	Same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27172	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 319 also representing Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27173	Also the same explanation, the government cannot accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27174	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 320 MP Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27175	The government cannot accept this amendment... The government cannot accept this amendment because the Regional Development Fund will be able to compete for the amount of funds after the adoption of the state budget and then the local self-government units from Zagreb County will be able to compete for the amount of funds. [[speaks off, can't be heard]] This part of the funds is not fixed, so during the year, if certain units of local self-government so the county fails to submit enough programs, these funds are being redistributed to other counties and we had the same case five times this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27176	Representative Vesna Pusic doesn't have any. We should vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please, I can't hear your attention. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 321 representatives of Tonin Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27177	The government cannot accept this amendment because it is mathematically incorrect. The MP proposes to increase the position of the regional development of Zagreb County by 500 thousand kuna, while proposing to reduce the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's public relations by a million and 500 thousand kuna in accordance with Article 31. So the amendment is mathematically incorrect and the government cannot accept it as such, because there would be a million kunas left indistinguishable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27178	Representative Tonino Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27179	... According to the proposal of the Ministry of Finance itself, the regional development of Zagreb County has been reduced compared to the earlier position by 25%, and it is said here that this amount of one million and a half kuna is proposed for the development of municipal infrastructure especially in the northeast... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear]] We know of course that the situation there is tragically bad, especially in four municipalities that do not have a metre of built public water supply or... [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] I would really like, then, to take into account, under another sentence of the state budget, one weak development of municipal infrastructure in the northeastern part... [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27180	...unfortunately, you suggested only an increase...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27181	Minister Shuker. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't make it. Amendment 322 of Bozidar Pankretić's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27182	The government cannot accept this amendment, as MP Pankretic suggests opening a new position. But as I said now after the adoption of the state budget, the Regional Development Fund will call for a tender. Therefore, local self-government units may report on these funds provided for in the Fund for ongoing donations to local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27183	Representative Pankretic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So if I understand Mr. Minister correctly, I realize that he's going to advocate this project, so just for a moment I'm going to steal more time, so I'm going to say it's a project to set up a farming-production center for organic production. When we talk about agriculture, when we talk about some comparative advantages that Croatia has, then we mention many times organic production. This is a project that goes in that direction without education, without in any way such a center, it's hard to say that we're going to start in this production. I can accept that these funds are not available, that this item cannot be opened, but if I understand correctly the minister he said he would probably personally advocate, that such a single project in some way in the contest goes in that direction, so I believe given his thinking and this smile, I will underline the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27185	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27186	Thank you very much. Amendment 322 has been withdrawn. State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Amendment 323. It's a club of representatives of Libra.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27187	The government doesn't accept. It considers that the resources provided will be sufficient to carry out the Commission's public procurement operations in 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27188	There's no representative. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Croatian Mine Action Centre. Amendment 324. Representatives Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27189	So these are the two amendments that were most difficult for government representatives yesterday to refuse honestly speaking because we are all aware of the problems in Croatia, the pollution of Croatia with mines. But unfortunately, the financial situation is what it is but it is also very interesting to see how much money from the total funds of the Croatian Mine Action Centre goes to demining alone, and how much it goes to the administrative costs of CROMAC, and you are also aware at this point of the problem of the Mungos company, which is also owned by the state and which was first founded with the original purpose of demining and unfortunately there has been the establishment of practically two parallel companies. One was to be administrative and the other was to be executed and we believe that the rationalization of business and CROMAC and higher, by the greater use of Mungos in the following year, would happen that the funds that will be demining would be able to increase but I must say the really honest position of all members of the government, these were the two amendments to which it was most difficult to say no because I say we are all aware of the dangers of mines and tragedy that happen every day throughout Croatia but this is certainly a position that we will in any way prove to be able to increase it because I say these are the two amendments that remain for the end and me personally as representatives of the Government and all the members of the government were very difficult at the time when we had to say that we do not have enough money to increase the funds for CROMAC.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27190	Vice President Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27191	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, yes, it is a really big and complex problem of the Republic of Croatia, which is the result of the aggression on the Republic of Croatia and is the result of the scattered mines throughout the Republic of Croatia. The problem is very complex and, in fact, the sufficient resources are certainly not to increase much more, so this increase in acceptance would not be enough, but it is also the fact that the pollution of a large part of the natural economic resources of the Republic of Croatia cannot be put into a function that would contribute from increasing the total national wealth and then the resources for the other needs of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Minister, you mentioned the problems of administrative costs but I'd like to add tax problems here. Unfortunately, this activity is being paid an extra value tax which, 22%, practically reduces these demining assets and practically this increase is somehow approximately to be equated with, at least with that extra value tax, without talking about all the other taxes paid by these companies. Therefore, understanding your reasoning and announcing that if there is any possibility as you have said that during the year, we will withdraw this amendment, and I will personally work together with my colleagues who have proposed this amendment to find such an opportunity, for example by amending and supplementing the Tax Act on an additional value, that at least the value of this activity is abolished because there is no point in paying an additional value tax for these matters, given the purpose and purpose that we want to achieve which is both human and of course economic and each other in view of the interest of the Republic of Croatia. We're withdrawing the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27192	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President Arlovic. Amendment 324 withdrawn. 325th Alenka Koshasa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27193	Mr. President, the exact same explanation as the amendment 324. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27194	There's no representative. The vote. Who's up for that amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Minister Shuker. We are going to review the amendments to the draft financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2005. Minister Shuker. 1st Amendment to Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government cannot accept this amendment because the representative is predicting an increase in revenue. As a result of this increase in revenue, expenditure increases. In fact, Croatian highways and Croatian roads have done their financial plans according to the fiscal projections of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this provision by the representative lady that, with the basis of some events that should take place in the future, will increase fuel consumption and, therefore, charge more excise duties than oil derivatives is not something that is safe and, ultimately, it is unusual for the amendments to be submitted with a proposal to increase revenue. So these are the reasons why the government cannot accept the amendment proposed by Ms. Alenka Kosisa Chicin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27196	There's no representative. We should vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 2. Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27197	Mr. President, it's exactly the same explanation as the First Amendment of Madam Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27198	There's no representative. Let's vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The third amendment is also the same advocates.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27199	Mr. President, the exact same explanation as for the first two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27200	There's no representative. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments debate has been concluded. The president of the HDZ Club is Vice-President Luka Bebic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27201	Mr. President, I suggest that on behalf of the Club it be voted by raising hands because many MPs don't have today because it's not Friday, so let's respect it and it's the same result.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27202	I thank you for this precious information about the day. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I find that most votes; 79 votes in favour and 17 against the adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005. [[Applause.]] In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives, I am voting on the following conclusion: The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to carry out, together with the representatives of the proposings, a revision of the text of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 prior to its publication in the National Journal. Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with one abstention and 95, the proposed conclusion has been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27214	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister. Today, we heard several adjectives about the budget, or government, in the debate. One said that the government was capable of providing budget projections. The second time we heard the government was brave because it gave budget projections. I personally think it really takes the ability to put together a budget for any budget, especially to put together a state budget, because it is a very complex substance. And of course you give projections of that budget. I don't think it takes any particular courage, because both the prime minister and ministers took responsibility for the government, and therefore probably the courage to put together a state budget. Today, however, we did not talk about the fact that this budget is not in line with the Budget Law. So we've been discussing something all day today, which is not in agreement with the fundamental law we're calling upon and the basis of what this budget should be drawn up. The government very bravely, I will use the word bravely here, in the Law on Budget Implementation says it will not comply with some important provisions of the Budget Law. But the Budget Act when it speaks of the fact that the Budget Law did not give the Government, nor the Parliament the right to derogate or delay the application of certain articles of the Budget Act. The Budget Act clearly defines what the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget contains, i.e. the decisions on the implementation of the local budget. The government, however, fails or overlooks it and tells us that OK. You will receive projections for the next two years, which we did not get with the 2004 budget. However, we will not respect Article 10(2). The budget law, and this Article 10, speaks of the delivery of, along with, the budget, the financial plans of the budgetary users making up the revenue and receipts, and the expenditure and expenditure allocated to the programmes. And that the financial plan of extra budget users consists of the general part that we have received and the specific part in which incomes and receipts are shown, and expenditures, expenditures allocated to current development programmes. That's not what we got. We did not, for example, get the Croatian Roads programme for the next four years. The Croatian Road Programme for the previous four years ends on 31.12 this year. We as representatives do not know what Croatian roads will maintain, we do not know what will be the standard of maintenance of Croatian roads and we do not know what Croatian roads will build over the next four years. And we should know. We should know where these money will go, not only in such a general item as is provided for in the out-of- budget user plan but should know specifically. Perhaps the pieces of today's debate would look different. Furthermore, the government says that not only do budgetary users and extra-financial funds not have to provide specific programmes, but it itself will not make up some important programmes such as budget documents, such as the budget user, for example Article 26, draw up a draft development plan with an explanation and propose it to the Minister, etc., etc. I don't want to read that article any further. Furthermore, the government should have drawn up a job plan. We've heard that there's an increase in salary by 800 million kuna and then we thought ok. State officials and tenants will receive higher wages. But no. The explanation is that there will be new employment. On the other hand, when we voted on the government's trust, then the government said it would be a less and more effective state administration. Today we do not have or will not have a less efficient administration than we do not know what kind of administration we will have because each budget must have as an integral part of the budget of new jobs with projections for the next two years. Therefore, not only for the financial year but for 2006 and 2007 and also for the Government said that it would not apply Article 29 which speaks of each budget as an integral part of its own building or long-term acquisition plan. So neither did we get it today, nor did we get a projection of the long-term property plan for 2006 and 2007. And now that we'd expect the government to say ok. We can't do this probably there are some reasons that I and the SDP Club are not willing to respect, but if the Government can't do that which we have determined is capable and brave then the question is whether it can be done by city heads, county heads and municipal chiefities in many municipalities, cities and counties. And I expected that if the government is already seeking some right for itself not to apply some law that should equally apply to everyone to give it to the units of local self-government. However, the government does not give this right to units of local self-government but even more so the government has written a guideline and sent in guidelines to units of local self-government how to create a job plan and how to make a procurement plan. So the government knows how to do it but it doesn't want to. The government does not want to create a job plan, new jobs and staff needs in 2005 and in projection years. But he also doesn't want to give that right to local self-government units and local self-government units did it for the 2004 budget, but he will also do it for the 2005 budget with projections for 2006 and 2007. So this budget certainly does not comply with the Budget Law. We will formally pass the Budget Law right after the budget, but the Government could not assume it and should have prepared the budget and put forward a draft budget to create and propose to this Parliament exclusively in accordance with the Budget Act and the question now is why this simply did not happen. Secondly, the question is whether the Law on Budgetary Implementation is real, although this is not foreseen in the Budgetary Act, it can foresee that some articles do not apply. I will banish the matter so that in the next year, the Government may adopt only the Budgetary Act where it will be a point of not applying the provision of the Budget Law which provides for a budget at all. I'm banalizing things. But I really think the government should have done all this in the Budget Law. That's one reason the SDP Club won't vote. Never say never. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] This is one reason why the SDP Club will not vote for the Budgetary Law. The second is that this Law on Budget Implementation also does not, in our opinion, significantly restrict the possibility of borrowing units of local self-government. The Budget Act has defined in its Article 104, from 104 below, and in particular Article 110 very precise, i.e. the excuse 106, very precise, under which conditions local self-government units can be entrusted. We are now in a position for the Government to prescribe that not only that, but there must be some other restrictions under the Law on the implementation of the state budget. These limits are 2% of the income increase of local self-government units or to translate that into an understandable language that will be around 250 million kuna this year. This applies to those units of local self-government that do not take credit from HABOR, which are not in areas of special state concern and local self-government units that have creditworthiness. Most of these local self-government units have never taken loans before or want to reprogram them. She took them a while ago under unfavourable interest and now she just wants to reprogram them, take the interest from 9, 11 to 6, 5, or I don't know how many units of local self-government can achieve right now. However, it will not be able to do so because it will not be able to obtain consent from the government. According to some announcements, only Rijeka is asking for more than 250 million to request consent. Zagreb will ask for about 400 and some million. And there are a whole series of units of local self-government that could request consent to lend some of their capital projects, so preferably what we said today is that they realize some projects from decentralised functions such as school building, such as building health homes, such as constructions, perhaps hospitals, such as buying vehicles for public fire departments or other purposes. However, this law will not allow them, or will be very limited, made possible. We believe that this is absolutely contrary to the Budget Law and that this article should certainly be deleted. You might want to hear one piece of information. Here, therefore, the Finance Ministry's annual debt in 2003 was 79 billion 788 million, of which local self-government units had a share of billions and 200 million. And we at that billion and 200 million, well something happened in 2004 but 300 million new units of local self-government happened. Therefore, in these relations we units of local self-government allow 250 million in debt. If we said that the state would be in debt for about 12 billion this year, then 250 million, I think it's really one amount that offends local self-government units in addition to saying that local self-government units only make less than 4.5 billion kunas of budget revenue and that's somewhere below 4%. At least they should have been given the opportunity to borrow how much they share in the budget revenues and, in particular, to enable them to develop. And the third reason why we cannot give a vote for this Law is Article 18, which predicts that in the other 6 months, maternity benefits are limited at a very low level. At 2,500 kuna level. So it's already been wronged to limit the fees to $4,250 if I'm not mistaken. But then if we need to limit it then at least we leave the limit on that basis, if we don't share there's no reason for mothers who make more income than 2,500 kunas to be punished for wanting to stay for another 6 months with their children on maternity leave. This is how we punish them. It would be good to look at the statistics on how many mothers will return after the first 6 months to work from this revenue group, which achieved their incomes before the delivery of more than 2,500 kuna. 2,500 kuna is certainly not enough to ensure good conditions for the growth and development of the child and for the life of the family. And we're asking that here or to increase to 4,000, or to level with what's in the first six months or what's best to share maternity benefits, to have no limits and to be the average salary in three months that precedes maternity leave. Here are three reasons why the SDP Club can't support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27215	Thank you. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27216	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the worst thing is when a man has to go back for a period, so I have to go back to 2003. Then Mršić, a colleague, did not mind that it was a total ban on the borrowing of units of local self-government. A fellow Mršić, a request from the city of Velika Gorica submitted in the 2nd month, approved in the 11th month by budget rebalancing and amending the law on the implementation of the state budget in 10 months, allowed the borrowing of units of local self-government in 2003. In the 10th month of 2003. Then local self-government units weren't supposed to split up, then local self-government units weren't supposed to build infrastructure, then local self-government units didn't need schools, they didn't need hospitals, they didn't need anything because it was a coalition government. What's the possibility of a mayor in charge of some HDZ? What are we talking about? At least let's be correct. In 2003, by the 10th month, no single unit of local self-government could be charged, none, no matter how much it was and that's true. So, that's true, fellow Mlasci. I know that well because I was mayor at the time. But I just want to tell you one other thing. It's easy to tell pathetically, but you had a different story today, I did it for giving units of local self-government, only so much we have to get out of the state budget and you've listed a series of projects that aren't going today. We can't look and subtract at the same time. Why isn't it true that local self-government units will be able to borrow 250 million. That you listened a little more carefully when I explained the budget this morning and when I explained the structure of the deficits to you then I said that the units of local self-government were 0,3 or somewhere around 660 million. So much is the deficit of local self-government units this year will be through them and their public enterprises. Last year, the deficit was 550 million kuna, for which the state could be less in debt. It is not a country deficit of 4.5 and 3.7 in the country's deficit of units of local self-government. However, I can also say with full responsibility that of all the requirements of the units of local self-government, three requirements are not granted and some 10 million kunas are all requirements that were the unit of local self-government approved. However, it is also incorrect that the Ministry of Finance's credit programme is not giving, it is not true! Credit reprogramme isn't a new borrowing, it's not a new debt. The credit reprogramme is a debt that already exists. But I'm saying, get out for a pay phone, say something and stay alive to make it sound nice, that's fine. However, I'm particularly sensitive to this unit of local self-government because I was mayor, I know what it means, and I know it's an optimal amount, but I repeat, in the country's deficit, 0.3% makes a deficit of local self-government units, 0.3%, and the credit reprogramme is not a debt. Also, as far as maternity benefits are concerned, with the full right to say so. Only colleague Mršić, if you hadn't taken off your maternity benefits, if they had stayed on the level and if those maternity benefits had had had some progressive growth, they would have looked different today. But this year we could only do that, bring them back to the level that was 2000. Because the budget structure for maternity benefits would be different if you had left maternity benefits at 2000 level, then the growth in the budget for maternity benefits would have been based on something, but the rise in the budget for maternity benefits was covered exclusively in order to arrive the maternity benefits that were 2000. So, some things are easy to say, however, the budget has its legality, as it grows and certain costs. And it's impossible to cut them, because you know the triangle no matter how small it is in the next year it becomes a rectangle as far as commitment is sometimes a square. You know very well because you're in the budget. So I don't need to explain that to you. However, I felt the need to say about this deficit units of local self-government for the simple reason that we also have another case of borrowing units of local self-government which today are unable to repay credit, mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, come to me to help them, to have the state repay their credit. At this point be assured, very few units of local self-government which can be entrusted and which can... There are models also through the Regional Development Fund and through HABOR where certain programmes can be financed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But let's not just open a big mouth so what we're going to do in debt. With measures like this, these aren't the measures someone introduced because they like it that way. It would be five times simpler for us to put the local self-government units in charge as much as they want and we don't have a problem with that. It's very hard to tell a mayor or chief, listen to the quota for this year's crack, you can't be in charge of a million and a half or two million kunas. That's very hard to say. However, if this were not limited, it would come to a situation so that the country's deficit could be 0.2, 0.3 and the local self-government deficit would be 2.5, 2.6, and then the Croatian road deficit would have to be reduced. Because you know that the fiscal potentials of Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka, Split, they can handle a billion-and-a-half loan, two billion kuna. That's 1% of the deficit. So we can't get into something we can't handle. And also, you know one thing well, I've listened to these stories about the law on enforcement, the Law on the State Budget and when we passed the budget in 2004. And... I did some things because I don't think it's right first of all for your predecessor to say something because the man was doing the best and the most honest job he could. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, our Budget Law has been passed so as to assume that in Croatia there is a state treasure, that state finances are in perfect order and that they can be made. I'd like all of you, what you just said, a plan to acquire long-term assets and a job plan, and you'd do it in all the users of the state budget. It can be in a situation where a state treasure works and there's a state treasure and it can be when they're regulated state finances. We can only talk about everything, but we can't talk about inheriting orderly state finances. I didn't want to say this out of respect for my colleague, the predecessor, but since you belong to his club and you're already pulling your tongue twice, I had to say it in public. So, to do, to meet these conditions that you're talking about without forming a state treasury is impossible, impossible. And the fact that you have passed a law that is practically inadmissible for Croatian conditions is another pair of shoes. And that is why in public at the Croatian Parliament is required that certain articles of this Law on the implementation of the budget are not... And I will also tell you my colleague Mršić, the town of Velika Gorica is the first city to have an established treasure for all its budget users. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know how much we've worked on it? Three years. So it wasn't that treasure that came from someone on the 15th, but it was who came with it. Thank you very much. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27217	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27218	So I'm correcting an incorrect statement from the minister that it couldn't be in charge in 2003. So my colleague Shuker and I were on the Committee on Local Self-Government and fought together against Article 27, I think he was, right? And in the rebalancing of the budget, that changed, and fellow Shucker and you and I as mayors got the government's consent in 2003. In 2003. But there was no limit in 2002. In 2001, there was no limit if we were going to go a little bit, a little bit into history. But I also agree that the state cannot create a job plan, but give it to the local self-government units. Why do you think the Budget Act is inapplicable to the state, and it is applicable to all units of local self-government. And if you think that's inapplicable, then let's go to law-amending. And let's not say every year, "Now we're going to apply two parameters of the Budget Act next year three, next year five." Then let's say, OK, budget law is not good. It's not applicable, let's change it, but then we give it to local self-government units. And they have these problems that the state has too. Minister Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27219	I'll tell you the truth. Why don't I change this article? Because we've given ourselves an imperative, to this government that has the political will and political power to establish a state treasure. You know what the problem is with the Treasury? The problem with the Treasury is there's no bosses around the departments. There's no coalition part of the budget. But then the budget is under the control of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. And this government is the first government to have political power and have, above all, political unity to do so. So we're not changing the articles because we've given ourselves an imperative to establish a state treasure. Only because of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27220	Okay. Honorable representative of Šima Prtnječa on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27221	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I won't be as brief as I've heard today most often, but I'm going to try to present this draft law on the implementation of the state budget very briefly. The constant that passes because I had the honour of public finances to run for 15 years and all of the budgets, or the law of execution that we later had to apply, contained similar provisions that sanctioned some of the provisions that did not stand inside for that year. So I know very well how, and by the way, some treasures have been operating in the Croatian state for three years. As far as the law itself is concerned, here are some of these constants that I'm only making some of the notes about the task of the local self-government units. Of course I'd like to be centralized, but this is now given the conditions of government and others probably and also given the preparedness of projects that can go into realisation one optimum, and it can probably be changed if it happens, however, we think it can go into debt. The current reserve is classical, what I would like to point out specifically to regulate the way back in the city of Vukovar by law on, special law then, should wait? ... I ask if, I'll wait. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. Helping associations and births regulated here defines it in a way that I think simply stories about why it's not one way or another and that at this point they're not so important for this budget this year. Perhaps what may cause curiosity or even regulate itself every year in a similar way to empower the Government on the possibility of being in charge at a given time so that all those obligations that follow can be realised and that not every day or every moment the Assembly meets so that it can make an operational decision and that provision should also stand inside and we don't think that it would simply go without it. We also feel that the issue of guarantees is well regulated and that it allows everyone to, but under conditions that are known to be prescribed. Therefore, there is nothing hidden in the issue of guarantees and even until the conversion of guarantees or ownership into shares in companies. Local self-government units are also prescribed in a way that helps them, as much as they like to be said transparently. So those who get involved in it can be inside of it. In the final collection of taxes and contributions, we have heard the problems following these provisions that are extremely valuable here for this year. They should be supported and we believe that absolutely all objections or no objections can stand, and all objections may be in some other time, but at this point they should be accepted. Finally, if someone tries to comply with the provisions or the Budget Act or these laws on the implementation of the State budget, criminal provisions for responsible persons shall be laid down. So if anyone suspects, and we've heard a lot of suspicions there is responsibility for such suspicions. The HDZ also supports the law on enforcement and is convinced it will pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27222	Thank you very much. Does the minister want to add anything in the end?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27223	Thank you very much, colleague Mršić, for trying to speak on behalf of the HDZ Club. So thank you all for the debate. Normally, the government and the finance ministry will review the amendments and give their response to them on Wednesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27224	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Tomorrow we will have two points of the agenda; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, first reading, Proposal for Law 189 and reports on the work of the HRT Council, the Directorate, business and independent audit of the audit carried out, financial reports. The two points that should be completed tomorrow, according to all, and at 3:00, the vote on the points discussed so far. ... Don't travel if the weather's coming up. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Final draft law implementing the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005. Debate and vote on amendments. The debate on the text of the law is over. We are moving on to the applicant's statement and the vote on the amendments tabled. First, thank you very much for the warnings we have amendments to the government. First of all, we need to decide whether or not we are going to debate and vote on the government's amendments. Please, who's in favour of discussing and voting on the government's amendments? Who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that with 81 votes for and 16 against, it is decided to debate and vote on the government's amendments. Let's go after them. Minister Shucker, here you go. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Amendment 1 suggests that the current reserve be reduced from 332 million and 900 thousand kuna to 314 million 828 thousand 45 kuna as proposed in the budget discussed at the Parliament's session of November 18th 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27227	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 1 to the Government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find Amendment 1 accepted with 81 votes for and 16 against. Amendment 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27228	This amendment deleted Article 2 of Article 8. The proposal for a law, since the text of paragraph 2 of this Article is regulated in the provisions of the Court Tax Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27229	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on Amendment 2. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find Amendment 2 accepted by 82 votes in favour and 15 against. Amendment 3, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27230	Amendment 3, this amendment shall be made for the purposes of nomotechnical and linguistic improvements of Article 15(1) and (5). The law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27231	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on Amendment 3. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that the amendment has been accepted by 81 votes and 16 against. Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27232	Amendment 4. This amendment aligns the legal text with the amounts planned in the specific part of the budget, which was discussed by the Croatian Parliament at the meeting on 18 November 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27233	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on Amendment 4. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that the amendment has been accepted by 81 votes for and 16 against. Amendment 4,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27234	Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27235	Five, five.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27236	This amendment shall bring into force the text of the wording of Article 25 with the text of that Article.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27237	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's for Amendment 5? Against? Restraint? I find that the amendment has been accepted, 81 for, 16 against. Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27238	This amendment complements the text in such a way as to indicate the number of National Journals which published the Regulation on criteria for the identification of users and how to distribute part of the revenues from gambling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27239	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who is for this amendment 6? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the amendment has been accepted by 82 for and 15 against votes. Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27240	The adoption of these amendments balances the rights and obligations of units of local and regional self-government in the production of the budget, financial plans for 2005 with the drawing up of the state budget and of the financial plans of extra-financial beneficiaries for 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27241	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on the amendments to the government. Against? Restraint? I find that the amendment has been accepted by 93 votes for and 3 abstentions. We've exhausted the government's amendments. The amendment of the Honorable Representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27242	The government does not accept this amendment for the reason why Yeah. [[/Intruder: 1st Amendment?]] The first amendment, for the reason that Article 86(1) of the Budget Act is prescribed that the Government may propose restrictive measures concerning the borrowing of units of local and regional or regional self-government and extra-financial funds referred to in the Law on the implementation of the State budget for a given year. In view of this legal provision, as well as Article 25. The final draft law on the implementation of the State budget in 2005 which stipulates that the total government debt may be up to 51% of the total gross domestic product in 2005. So that's why there's been a provision on borrowing units of local self-government of 2, not 3% as last year. I also have to say that since 2003, the local self-government deficit has been counted as the central government's consolidated deficit, so in the total deficit this year of 3.7% of local self-government units are participating with 0.3 or somewhere with around 640 million kuna. That's how much the central state can be less in debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27243	Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27244	I think that the central state must share the fate, or mutually local and regional units, of fate equal to that of borrowing, if we so choose. However, Article 104. The Budget Act allows units of local and regional self-government by taking loans by issuing securities, and Article 106 provides for the means and conditions of borrowing of units of local and regional self-government. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The budget law, and I find it inadmissible to amend the Budget Law in such a way, because the Budget Law is only worth one year, only for the year for which it is adopted. If it hasn't been applied for three years, then I think it is, you said it wasn't even 2003. The same amendment, i.e. the same article, was for the budget this year. It is proposed for 2005, I think it is better to amend the Budget Law which regulates the possibility of borrowing units of local and regional self-government, so I suggest voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27245	Thank you. Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27246	The second amendment is completely identical to the first, but this may be an opportunity to give further clarifications. Therefore, the government does not accept the amendment because in 2003 a decision was made to account for the budget of local self-government units for the first time in 2003 because for the first time in 2003, the deficit of a consolidated central state was calculated and the deficit of local self-government units was only allowed to rebalance the budget in the 10th month, if the units of local self-government in 2003, but if the law limits the deficit and if it could limit the extent of the deficit of Croatian roads, Croatian highways if the deficit of the Croatian state was 3.7% consolidated then I do not see how this law could be uncontrollable to allow the borrowing of units of local self-government. So we all share the deficit this year, actually next year of 3.7% as we divided it last year from 4.5 and as we divided it in 2003 by 6.3%.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27247	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27248	My amendment does not apply to borrowing. My second amendment refers to Article 38. It's a colleague of Mrsic's, I guess, an amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27249	I'm sorry, there was some kind of confusion then.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27250	My second amendment refers to Article 38, where I propose that this article be deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27251	No, I have a second amendment to the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27252	No, I'm telling you the second amendment of MP Dragica Zgrebec to article 38 reads, "Article 38 is deleted."
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27253	Article 38 was consummated in the government's amendment, and therefore it is groundless.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27254	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27255	Yes, it is true that the government is not consumed. I propose that the state budget also be done in accordance with the provisions of the Budget Law, which is to adopt a financial plan for extra- budget users, consisting of a general and specific section showing income and receipts, expenditure and expenditure allocated to current development programmes, to create a plan of development programmes, a plan of the jobs of the budget users, then we would see the extent of the increase in the number of employees of individual budget users, i.e. a long-term property plan. In fact, the Government's amendment exempts both local and regional self-government units from this obligation. I propose that since they have already done their budgets and accompanying acts under the Budget Law last year, it should also be an obligation when drawing up the state budget. Therefore, if that is not the case, it is smarter and more rational to amend the Budget Law. I'm asking to vote on my amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27256	Thank you. Who's in favor of Amendment 2 of Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And Amendment 3, Ministers shall be elected to Article 39 of the amendment to delete Article 39.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27257	The government does not accept the amendment because it is Article 71. The budget law prescribed the possibility of deferral of payment and the payment of the debt debtor in cases where the debt is charged on the basis of the State guarantees given but not the public debt in terms of the general tax law. I have to say that last year there was a terrible cry for this provision, but neither did the Ministry of Finance benefit as it was said to be broad arms, there were only a few, and there were very justified periodical delays, but at the expense of a tight 15% interest, and we believe that this provision must remain due to exceptional cases. You can't predict a variety of life situations for both citizens and companies that simply find themselves in a situation that can't meet their obligations at that point and just practically stop the business cycle, can't report to a public tender or anything. According to this year, there have been several repayments, and the proposal is due to a positive 2004 experience to keep such a provision in the Budget Implementation Act in 2005 as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27258	Councilwoman Dragica Zgrebec please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27259	I can trust you, Mr. Minister, to say the least. However, this article allows the Government to postpone payment or grant the payment of outstanding public fees to the public bonds, but must be notified by the Croatian Parliament on a half-yearly and annual basis. We discussed the budget for the first half of 2004 the other day, and we didn't get this report. If we got it, then we could estimate to what extent it was. However, this provision is contrary to Article 71. Budget law. He says they can postpone or pay the state guarantees on a regular basis, but not on public spending obligations. This certainly opens up the possibility to accommodate certain taxpayers, I'm not saying that it does, that we got this report with the implementation of the budget for the first term then we could see to what extent the government consumed this right. I also think that it is better to amend the Budget Law in such a way, not to do so with a special act that has been in force for a year. I'm also asking you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27260	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Now we have a few, three amendments to Mrsic's representative. Minister, you have amendment one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27261	I have an amendment one. The government does not accept because, and the argument is exactly the same as in the first amendment of the respected Mrs. Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27262	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27263	So I'll withdraw this amendment, but let me say a few words. So this amendment provided that units of local self-government could be entrusted, i.e. that the Government could give consent to the borrowing of units of local self-government in accordance with the Budget Law and in accordance with the Law on the financing of units of local self-government. It is already a sufficient limit for the government and I would really be pleased if the local self-government units shared the government's fate not only in the deficit, so not only in the deficit but that they could do what the government can do when it lacks income to issue bonds on the domestic market, when it lacks income to raise excise duties, when it lacks income to raise some and introduce some taxes. Unfortunately, this unit of local self-government can't do it, and I don't think there was a limit to borrowing until 2003 except for this 20% of the budget income, but when we're full of the mouth of local self-government, decentralisation and strength of local self-government units, then I think we should really think about it in 2005 and empowering them, not just to talk about it nicely and widely. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27264	Thank you very much. Amendment 1 has been withdrawn. Amendment 2 of Mršić's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27265	The Government does not accept, because it cannot accept this amendment, because the funds for implementation are the provisions of Article 6. The law planned in the draft budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005, and this article was discussed when the budget law was discussed, I do not think we need to go back to 2000 to reducing maternity benefits, etc. So these are, since we have adopted the budget, this amendment cannot be adopted because there are no budget allocations for this amount that you are proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27266	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27267	So we discussed this, I wish we hadn't come back to 2003 or 2000, I'd like to see in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2012 let's say, or 2030, when we're not supposed to have more labour because we won't have, there won't be so many children born in Croatia. This argument of yours is actually about the wrong path, so obviously it's the wrong way to determine the level of maternity benefits by the State Budget Act. It should be defined in one of the basic laws as to how much maternity compensation it is which would introduce the safety of parents not to depend on the will of the Parliament every year on how much maternity compensation there will be and not to come to this position to say that we cannot raise maternity benefits because the budget has been adopted. So here's the suggestion that in the other six months, the highest maternity fee should be at the level of the average salary. I don't see any, absolutely no reason for a maximum of 2 and a half thousand kuna in the other 6 months if it's a maximum of 4250 kuna. What happens in 7 months is that there should be half a maternity benefit compared to the first 6 months, it is in the last year about 4 thousand potential beneficiaries of such maternity benefits and if the government has a willingness it can find either in budget reserves or somewhere funds for these users and I don't think it's right... I see you've had enough listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27268	Is Mršić voting or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27269	I don't see your clubmates getting upset. I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27270	Thank you very much. Amendment 3 of Mršić's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27271	Amendment 3 was consummated by the government's amendment, which was an amendment that Mr. Mrsic proposed in the debate that the government then installed as its amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27272	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27273	Well, my amendment has been consummated by the government as its amendment, and I thank her for taking over my idea and thanking you on behalf of the units of local self-government, who have not yet adopted the budget, so they will be able to use this benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27274	That means the amendment has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27275	That means the amendment has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-18-0.u27276	Okay, it's been consummated. I'm on, I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft law on the implementation of the state budget. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 80 votes for and 15 against the adopted Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 the text proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. It is on the agenda - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the laws on the Office for the Prevention and Corruption and Organized Crime, first reading of P.Z. No. 189; The legislator is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees of Law and Justice, you received reports at the session. I'm asking Justice Minister Vesna Scare Ozbolt to further explain the bill. Here you go, Minister.
