ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9538	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The selection and appointment committee held a session and adopted the following proposals. The session was held on 30 March. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament, the proposal is to appoint members: as representative of the City of Zagreb Mrs. Greta Augustinović-Pavic, representative of Osijek Mrs. Jadranka Nikolov, representative of Rijeka Mr. Alan Boskovic, representative of the unit of regional (regional) self-government Mr. Zlatko Komadin and Ivo Grbić, representative of the local self-government unit of the municipality from the continental part of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Josip Sarić, from the coastal part of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Ivo Gavranić, representative from the line of prominent lawyers Mr. Dragutin Ježić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9539	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Honourable representative Plasimir Mršić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9540	Dear President, I would like to show my dissatisfaction with the way candidates for outside members of the Committee on Local, Regional Region Self-Government. I personally, as chairman of that committee, sent a letter on two occasions to the President of the Committee on Elections and Appointing, wishing to point out in a way that should be chosen, i.e. by asking that the Committee, the parent committee, which appoints the outside members, be given the opportunity to define a proposal for outside members who are not defined by the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure defined four major cities as giving their representatives, and that is fine, they were sent letters and their representative bodies proposed the persons they wanted to represent on that committee, but four other members should be appointed by two of them from the county and two from the municipalities of which it was defined that one representative of the continent should be from the Dalmatian one from the continental part of Croatia. It was precisely around the four that we were proposed to ask the alliances of associations of cities and municipalities as professional and national associations of municipalities and associations of cities to propose who would represent them. And that's what we wanted to achieve agreement on within the Committee on Regional Local Self-Government. We haven't finished discussing this on the board, but I have asked the president of the selection committee not to take steps until now until the committee has agreed on who should be represented. Now I do not want to enter into a name debate in any way, I think that representatives of units of local and regional self-government, regardless of who they were representative enough to represent the interests of units of local regional self-government. But I want to apply, for example, that both mayors are from the sea. That he had from Rijeka from the Primorje Mountain County, so representatives of both Rijeka and Promorje Mountain County. So there are some illogicalities about these proposals. Not getting into their names and personal solutions. I personally think it was much better for the board to reach agreement on this and that the board would suggest who to ask for it. And I certainly think that the representatives of the municipalities should have proposed an association of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia which is a national association that gathers about 80% of the municipalities in Croatia. And they could have said who they wanted to present them on that committee. Not to be a dissertational right of the Board of Selection and Appointment. Or any representative here at the Croatian Parliament. I, as chairman of the Committee, do not know at this point how we have reached these candidates who will become the external members of the Committee that I chair. So he sees no obstacle to these four defined by the Rules of Procedure. But I think it's much better to ask the association of municipalities and the alliances of cities to propose those two representatives who would be on that committee. Or that of the mayoral association because there is an association of mayors, we also ask that they propose which two mayors would be on that committee. Because to be suspected from the race of the proposed candidates that was asked by someone to propose the mayors so that could happen to be all mayors. At the same time, we also have different criteria for those local self-government units coming from cities. But that's why two mayors are coming. So even here we don't have any criteria given by outside members of the Committee of Leaders of the People's Units of Local Self-Government or by people who are in headship such as the representative of the city of Zagreb. They gave the secretary of the city an example of the city of Osijek or a third while we have county districts and I guess I don't know the representatives of these two municipalities gave it to the mayors of the municipalities or to the mayors of the municipalities. So I don't want to challenge the right of someone here in any way and, above all, not the appointment committee to propose outside members. But I certainly think that the opinion or position of the alliances of cities, associations of cities, associations of municipalities and associations of mayors who would propose candidates should be sealed. This Parliament, as well as the Committee on Selection and Change, would show that it really cares about the association of municipalities and urban areas as national associations of mayors, mayors of all cities and all municipalities of Croatia regardless of political commitment. This way, I don't think it's a good procedure to propose outside members. And finally, I think it would have been wise or good or democratic at least if it had been requested that the board had been familiar before this appointment to the members of the outside who would have been proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9541	I would like to thank the correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9542	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The incorrect quote of his colleague Mršić, who is indeed the chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government, consists of the fact that he represented and explained here the minority's views on the committee as the committee's views. Most of the committee heard this proposal, which the Honorable House also heard, that candidates were requested from municipalities and cities, but most members of that committee disagreed. Because we have concluded that the right that this House has according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9543	Thank you very much. Not a colleague, Mršić, was not speaking on behalf of the Committee. Nor was the committee's position, it held its personal position, and mentioned that he was the Committee's chairman. But it was not the committee's position. He's a colleague of Mršić's. Unfortunately, Article 103. The Rules of Procedure determines that one of these external members is one of the ranks of prominent lawyers, and these remaining 8 are solely authorised to put forward a proposal by the representative bodies of the units of local or regional self-government. It's a matter of the Rules of Procedure. And these are the only representative bodies of the units of local or regional self-government who are authorized to put forward proposals to the committee for the selection of appointments, so that those others who could run the association of municipalities and cities, unfortunately, are not in position. We're going to the vote. I would like to ask who is for the proposal of the Committee on the origin of the appointment and administrative tasks for the Decision appointing members of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. Who's in? Thank you very much. Against. Thank you. Restraint? I note that with 82 votes for and 20 abstentions, the decision is to appoint the Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament as members of the representatives of Zagreb Greta Augustinović Pavić, from Osijek Jadranka Nikolov, from Rijeka Allen Boskovic. From the units of local and regional self-government, Mayor Zlatko Komadina and Mayor Ivo Grgic, representative of the units of local self-government, municipalities of the continental part of Croatia, Josip Saric, Head of the Municipality of Island of the coastal part of the Republic of Croatia Ivo Gavranić, head of Blato municipality. From the ranks of prominent lawyers Dragutin Ježić. President Glavas, let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9544	There it is only necessary to stress, therefore, that the City of Split has not yet submitted its proposal for the appointment of its member from Split, and we will do so later. The next proposal is the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Management Board of the Development and Employment Fund. For a member of the Management Board of the Development and Employment Fund, it is proposed to appoint Mr Tomislav Čuljak, representative of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9545	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Honorable representative of Mato Church, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9546	Mr. President, Mr. President of the Committee. We're calling here today representatives who will be on board two important funds. The Development and Employment Fund and the Regional Development Fund. The Management Boards, or members of those Management Boards, shall decide to direct the funds, respecting the criteria under which they appear to be. They decide to connect with European funds, especially cohesion, because this job is going well. Over the past 2 years, around 300 projects have been supported by concrete funding from these 2 funds, whether these are smaller employment and development projects, or local projects in areas where regional development should be accelerated. It is, therefore, serious funds and administrations that decide to direct the funds. We are in the past term given such a situation we certainly wanted to... So, given the sensitivity and importance of these funds, we had people from the opposition in the last term on these boards of directors. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] And I think it would have been wrong if we hadn't. For example, in this Fund, on the board of directors, as I recall, my colleague Shucker was a representative at the time. You will now have 10 people with these two funds, each five on boards, 10 people from HDZ. None of the opposition, or any other party. As a rule, there are 4 ministers or 3 ministers and 2 MPs, etc. Here is the proposal for exclusively HDZ people to be appointed to these boards of directors. I don't think that's a good idea. It is good that you have inside and someone from the opposition and for the sake of public and for the sake of openness, and also because the opposition also participates even though the formal decisions are always made by you because you have the majority, but that the opposition of those 10 people should be present with at least one name, on each of those committees. It's something that I think is normal and that we've always had before and that would be necessary for it to be now. But it's up to you, and it's up to you, but I think here with a proposal like this is wrong. That's why, Mr. President, I think it would be wise not to make that choice now but to consider once again whether it would be a good idea to have representatives from the opposition that are proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9547	I unfortunately have no other choice but to put this motion to the vote and please, who is for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 77 votes in favour, 15 against and 5 abstentions, Tomislav Culjak has been appointed a member of the Management Board of the Development and Employment Fund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9548	The following is the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Management Board of the Regional Development Fund of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee proposes to be a member of the Governing Board of the Regional Development Fund of the Republic of Croatia the appointment of Mr of Representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9549	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose this decision to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Is he restrained? I note that with 83 votes for and 15 abstentions, Mr. Representative Zvonimir Puljic has been elected member of the Management Board of the Regional Development Fund of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9550	The next proposal for a decision is a proposal to appoint members of the Supervisory Board of the Trust Fund for the Compensation of Assets. The Committee suggests that, for members of the Supervisory Board of the Trust Fund, the seized property is appointed from the ranks of prominent legal experts Mr. Miroslav Šeparovic and Mr. Boris Kandara.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9551	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on this proposal. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that, with 97 votes for and 1 against, abstention, pardon, he is abstentioned that they have been elected to the Management Board of the Compensation Fund, members of the Supervisory Board of the Trusted Assets Fund, Mr Miroslav Šeparović and Boris Kandara. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9552	The following is the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Council for Stocks. The proposal of the Committee is to appoint representatives of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Krunoslav Markovinović, Dragutin Lesar and Dragutin Pukleš as members of the Committee. From the ranks of prominent economic experts Mr. Dusan Alebić and Mr. Tomislav Antičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9553	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on this proposal. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, Krunoslav Markovinović, Dragutin Lesar and Dragutin Pukleš, as well as prominent economic experts Dusan Alebić and Tomislav Antičić are unanimously appointed as representatives of the Council for Stocks. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you would now set a 30-minute break. At half past five, no, at half past five or four and a half, we'd continue with the impellation. Ladies and gentlemen, continue the session. On the agenda - Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia Interpellation submitted 20 MPs. You've received the material into the boxes. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted its report. I ask the honourable representative, Zlatko Tomcic, on behalf of the promoter, to take his word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9555	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Madam Minister, I'm not going to read all this, not afraid, there would be too much of this paper. If I may, Mr. President, we will immediately announce that we will use 30 minutes on behalf of the proposer in three moments. Tomcic, Vresk, Pankretić. The liberalisation of trade in agricultural and food products between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia is a major economic issue, whose implementation in the context of the preparation of the signing of the already known Protocol 7 does not take place in our opinion in accordance with the relevant documents. It is also important that Croatia retains the trend of respect in the institutions of the European Union, especially at this time, the expectations of a positive AVI candidate for full membership and the start of negotiations for full membership in the European Union. But it is also too important for all current jobs at the European Union – the Republic of Croatia to be extremely transparent, which depends on the end and the mood of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia towards the European Union, which will be very important to us one day. This mood of the public of the Republic of Croatia in just a few days has seen a chaotic and dramatic fall, why, directly in my opinion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is responsible for its secretive and in our opinion, against the law-making of the negotiations on the liberalisation of trade in agricultural food products with the European Union, or Protocol 7. The HSS Club at the time of its submission, did not ask, did not intend to ask for a vote in the Croatian Parliament on the government's trust or individual minister. We emphasized that, and it says in the interpretation, in the course of the debate, we will propose adequate conclusions. Our goal was first and foremost to realize the government's surprise with our interest in taking these negotiations and insisting on the public data, so our interest and goal was to correct the process, bring it into the legal frameworks, and strengthen the negotiating position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Based on the data available, but on those data that we had to "take" information, we have seen that the initial requirements of the European Union in this Protocol 7 have been prenamed significantly above the real borders. They are potentially jeopardizing the existential interests of Croatian peasants and food industries. We also saw a timid approach by our negotiators, who said at a joint session, three parliamentary committees, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, which took place on 2 March, that 70% of the demands had already been resolved, and that Protocol 7 would be signed by 1 May. Which has been particularly surprising, because for such a hasty signing of the protocol there is absolutely no obligation of the Republic of Croatia. The surprise of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with our interest has quickly been transformed, and this has all happened in the last month and a half, two days, in the game of hiding data on negotiations, but also looking for models to get out of the legal reach of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and to put all together in the area of bilateral bargaining in order to avoid the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement Act and of the Interim Agreement. Thus the conflict has been provoked exclusively at the legal level, is this a question of applying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Interim Agreement and the Implementing Act, or is it a matter of bilateral negotiation? Of course, we had to accept this provocation and it was transmitted in its own way and into this interpretation. But I stress, the problem is not exclusively legal, the problem is significantly broader. He's constitutional, he's international, he's political, but he's also economic. Given the complexity of the problem and, in our view, the threat of national interests in the area of agriculture and food industries, the HSS Club is ready to propose conclusions, which will bring the ball down to the ground, but provided that the Assembly is allowed to carry out its post of control over the implementation of the agreement. and quite frankly, if the debate does not give any indication that we are all ready to go in this direction, I am now announcing other possible measures, which both the laws and the Constitution allow us to do, until the request for constitutional protection. This isn't a threat. This is still just a warning. I know what a disciplined majority means. I know how to vote in this House. However, HSS knows very well that it would be tragic for the legal system, for parliamentaryism, for this society if the illegal conduct of the Government of the Republic of Croatia were to be legalised in this house. I therefore very clearly announce all possible measures, including a request to raise the protection of constitutionality. If this impeachment were to be refused in this home, and to confirm the previous moves of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and to put negotiations on Protocol 7 in the area of bilateral negotiations, this would actually be the most severe blow to parliamentaryism in Croatia so far. This would certainly be a strong demonstration of the understanding of the current government about the relationship between legislative and executive authorities. I won't talk about detailed legal issues, Mr. Vresk will talk about it. I won't even talk about a professional metric, which means signing this protocol with the announced proportions, he will talk about it in this half-hour opening statement, Mr Pankretic. But for the sake of our ratings, if this could be recorded, and if maybe this is seen somewhere except in this hall, I want to show our audience the following. This is a Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community. It provides for everything. The future relations and obligations of the Republic of Croatia in political, economic, market and other terms, but unfortunately the agreement is not in force, the conditions for it to come into force have not yet been met because the three countries, Great Britain, the Netherlands and Italy have not ratified the agreement. This second document, which is only slightly smaller in size, is called a temporary agreement on trade and related issues between Croatia and the European Union. It provides for almost all the same as in this whole agreement except that some of the institutions provided for under the agreement could not be formed since the agreement was not yet in force but through this agreement was formed so-called. the temporary committee, therefore, the place of discussion, the negotiations, establishing certain proposals, making decisions on the realisation of the European Union – the Republic of Croatia. And this third small paper has only two pages called the Law on the Implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Interim Agreement on Trade and Related Issues between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. This last one is the smallest but he's totally clear. It's this very law that's been broken. These two pages, he is injured because the parameters that are here in these large laws are not respected and are brought into question whether the Republic of Croatia should behave under these laws today or whether some other laws should be followed. According to our deep conviction, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is acting against the law, avoiding allowing the Croatian Parliament to perform its function as provided for in this law, which is the supervision of the Croatian Parliament over the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Sporusum. My colleagues will discuss this in more detail, but in order for everything to be credible, allow me to quote only one article in the interim agreement that and those who have not dealt with this issue in detail, which will clarify that it is precisely under the interim agreement that negotiations on the liberalisation of trade in agricultural and food products between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union should be conducted. I'll quote Article 16. The interim agreement, i.e. Article 29 of the SAA, which states: "Taken into account the scope of trade in agricultural products, fish and fish products between the parties in particular product sensitivity, the rules of the common Community policies and the Croatian agricultural policy of fisheries, the role of fisheries in Croatia and the consequences of several foreign trade negotiations in the context of the world trade organisation of communities and Croatia will, therefore, within the provisional committee no later than 1 July 2006, therefore, have no hurry for each individual product, please examine for each individual product and on an appropriate basis of reciprocity the possibility of granting further mutual concessions in order to achieve greater liberalisation of trade in agricultural products, fish and fish products." The article is clear, therefore, the liberalisation between trade between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia can go exclusively under this Interim Agreement. Of course we should quote some more articles that determine what functions of the temporary committee, in which it is formed but not wishing to abuse your time and time to which my colleagues are entitled, I will not further quote. In addition to finding out that the picture would be, which I would add, in order for the picture to be complete to be fully considered, Article 6. The law implementing the agreement, which states: "Stabilising Council decisions and the Interim Committee, which amends or supplements the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community and their Member States, or the Interim Agreement on Trade and Related Issues, etc., shall be implemented in accordance with the procedure for confirming international contracts." Therefore, decisions of the Interim Committee shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure for confirming international contracts rather than negotiations. Negotiations are carried out, concluded and decisions taken exclusively within the framework of the Interim Committee. Thank you very much. I ask you now to allow Mr. Vresk who, from a legal point of view, will explain the reasons for our interpretation in more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9556	Please. Here you go, Mr. Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9557	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Madam Vice President, The Croatian Peasant Party therefore sent a proposal on 25 March this year to the President of the Croatian Assembly of Interpletion, an interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I must first say here that our goal was when we referred this interpretation to the Croatian Parliament to correct the mistake apparently made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the procedure itself and which could, may have great consequences. It is also visible from the very proposal for conclusions that we will propose that we were not intended to prevent or challenge the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its negotiations with the European Union, but was the aim of the Government of the Republic of Croatia first respecting the legal procedure and at the same time discussing important issues regarding why it is competent on the subject of the law and the Constitution. The minutes of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry meeting of 3 March this year show that the Committee's agenda included information on negotiations for the conclusion of Protocol 7 on the extension of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in the area of trade, agricultural food products. I do not think it is necessary to further clarify that the Government of the Republic of Croatia took part in negotiations through its representative without the legal assumption set out in Article 4. The law on the navigation of Stabilisation and Association Agreements between the Republic of Croatia and the European Communities and their Member States and the Interim Agreement on Trade and Related Issues between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community. The Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot pass the Croatian Parliament, according to the cited law, when positions in the negotiations are established, because in the cited Article 4. The legal position for this is determined only by the Croatian Parliament and, of course, the Government submits a proposal for such a conclusion. As regards the Interim Committee, it is quite proportionate for consultations on matters relating to trade policy in the event of accession to be determined by Article 23(3) of the Interim Agreement. It is therefore evident that the Interim Committee is in charge of arrangements on trade issues. As a result, the Government had to respect the cited Law on the implementation of the Interim Agreement and the procedure prescribed by that law. Which means only to submit a proposal for a decision to the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament only afterwards makes its conclusion that is binding on the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the negotiations. It is evident that the conclusions of the parliamentary committees, i.e. the Committee on Kissing and Forestry, could not replace the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament or have such legal power as to the same conclusion. It is not other than that nor exactly what the Government is saying that the negotiations on Protocol 7 take place directly... A commission, not a temporary committee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government's aim is to say that the provisions of the 1996 Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts should then be applied, rather than the law mentioned above. I must make it quite clear here that in all international contracts and those bilateral and multilateral which the Republic of Croatia is signing or which Republic of Croatia has access to are subject to the provisions of this Act. As regards Protocol 7, it is legally clear that the provisions of both laws are actually applicable, which means the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts as well as the Law on the Implementation of Stabilisation and Association Agreements between the Republic of Croatia and... the Community and their Member States and the Interim Agreement on trade and related matters between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, as the last regulation or so on. “leg specialis”. It is also legally clear that both regulations are equal to the legal force, but this last regulation regulates a specific area in a completely different way. It is visible the very intensity of a special regulation which, due to the specificity of the issues that arise when joining the European Union, and in particular to regulate the interim agreement in a specific or special way and impose another obligation on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, consisting of, in the process of negotiating the position itself, having to ask for confirmation of the Croatian Parliament. This legal provision is logical because it is an extremely important issue, so the legislator wanted the Croatian Parliament as the most representative body of the Croatian people and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to oversee the implementation of this quoted agreement. No one, therefore no body of the Republic of Croatia, and neither does the Government sign international contracts on its behalf, is always working on behalf and on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. When I have mentioned both of these laws, it is evident that both apply in a specific case, both have the same legal force, and the provisions of a special law which the Government of the Republic of Croatia violated apply when the general regulation does not regulate something or when the specific regulation regulates the issue in a different way. Under the general rule of 1996, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of powers it must have, through its representatives, can negotiate itself, take views and conclude international agreements that create rights and obligations for the Republic of Croatia. In order for these contracts to enter into force, the Croatian Assembly must confirm them. Ratify. As regards these specific negotiations and the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreements between the Republic of Croatia and the European Communities and their Member States and the Interim Agreement on Trade and Related Issues between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community, there is, in addition to all the rights and obligations and the general law mentioned, because of the importance of the issue and the additional obligation to ask the Croatian Parliament, of course, on its own proposal that the Croatian Parliament concludes by way of conclusion, what position can the representatives of the Government only represent? It is therefore evident that the Government can only receive power to represent a certain position in the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, along with their report, the Government has also delivered, and I must say here the opinion of the Department of European Public Law Department of the University of Zagreb. I have to say, it's an unusual approach, but let's respect that, too. We could have done the same thing when we wrote the interpretation and delivered the legal opinion, the legal profession of any and, of course, including the Zagreb Faculty as the largest university in the country. But it's not common and it's not good. We don't agree with that opinion, we don't think that's true. In addition to such an opinion being delivered, I must say that the author of the text of the professor and the department also appeared in the daily press this week, in which he was polarizing with both of these laws and, of course, with the Constitution. It's not good, it's not good that such an eminent lecturer at such a university as the Zagreb Law Faculty is challenging the constitutionality of this special regulation. We know for ourselves that this is the only way to do so, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia should do so. As long as the Constitutional Court does not give an assessment of the constitutionality of that law, or that law, you must be absolutely certain... And in the end, just one more sentence. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, you will see this in these conclusions too, primarily, thinking that certain conclusions of the Croatian Parliament will allow the government, even if retroactively, to act and correct this error in the procedure which is obviously made for the benefit of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9558	Thank you. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Right?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9559	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government here are a few sentences in this remaining part of the time that I'm going to say will be directed at the very measure of things. Why this whole procedure was initiated, I will at first make it very clear. I've been trying to get some information from the beginning how the negotiations are going, what are the government's guidelines? I have to say that such incarceration has given me some sort of surprise and I haven't received any information. In a certain way, no information was made public and the public was left without information. Not only did the Croatian public remain without such important information but also representatives in the Croatian Parliament and here we have almost until today we have not received, we received from the minister a written part and written documents regarding the negotiations. What I particularly want to emphasise from the information that was available to me is that Protocol 7 objectively after its signing in that proposal, and we have this information ourselves that the European Union proposes to hit Croatian agriculture, especially the food industry. What's most questionable for me here is the matter of the date we've already been on several times, and so on at certain joint meetings where the minister has found it, that in a certain way it should be signed by May 1st. The question is here in principle. Croatia is not the only country that has contracted with, for example, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia and so on. She had most likely these countries and many other countries. Now that they are entering the European Union and becoming members, the question is whether another country must change the treaty with the European Union except Croatia by 1 May. Perhaps we will get answers to that question today, I find it extremely important for Croatia to be in it too. Respecting everything we've heard so far I'll remember maybe one I'd say the work that was done during the former government, which is a free trade agreement with Hungary. I took part in this, and unfortunately, I was a little bit of an insubordination towards the Prime Minister where we had long negotiated certain things, a little conflicted with my colleague, who was then Minister of Economy because I then warned about what a free trade agreement meant and what consequences he could have. I'll tell you from a very plastic example in Hungary where before the signing of the agreement, imports from Hungary were about 60 million dollars and some million dollars to grow by over 100 billion dollars in almost a year and a half, 100 million dollars. Today we have imports of $100 and $6 million, and exports of only $6 million. At the time when we discussed one of the last arguments by my colleagues was to sign a free trade agreement with Hungary, because Hungary would quickly enter the European Union. After all, I was only one member of the government, normally it was a coalition, I agreed in that part. But something different is happening now. These days we could hear those quotas that they had, countries that come in, they kind of have to be held back or we're gonna try something in that part of it. I'm warning you that part, I don't think he's good. It will certainly bring about the consequences and I think that now by warning this problem we want in a certain way I would say this whole part to strengthen the negotiating position of our negotiators and the overall Croatian government. Let me perhaps just plastically specify some products that, unfortunately, according to our information are not official, significantly increase certain quotas, and then in the part relating to the current imports themselves. For example, in sausages, the imports increased by 2.32 times. At the meat cans 3,86 times. Pigmeat 1.50. Live cattle almost 12 times, apples four times. I have unofficial information that the apple has managed to negotiate this so that something will shrink. Oh, God, that's true. For example, in milk from the current quota of 3,000 to 300 to 13 thousand tonnes or four times. Also increased in cheese, with chocolate almost twice, in mineral waters by over four times. I must say that when we look at these products in the present part of the imports, we must see that they are really big. For example, in cattle last 2003, 23 thousand tonnes, pork meat of 23 thousand tonnes, milk and cream 22 thousand tonnes last year. I think it's important here to emphasize something that's important to me when I've been collecting this data, especially to draw attention, which is the part that applies, for example. The month of January of this year, it can almost be said that according to unofficial data it is still valid for February. That the situation is getting worse. For example, the increase in imports by almost 18.6% for January 2004 compared to January 2003, and what is even more problematic is that export reductions are more than 24%. If such a trend continues, it will cause even bigger problems and I must say that in that part of the task is for all of us to try to do everything we can to make sure that these things don't happen. It is our complete goal in this part whether to ensure the protection of national interests and not to raise the question whether or not in Europe, but how and how much the price must be paid. There will certainly be a question here and I have personally been able to influence these things, believe that I have done the most in that part, but I believe you will not repeat those mistakes that have been made and for my term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9560	Thank you. I'm asking the Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader to take his word for it, and it's obvious that it's impeling. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9561	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, this interpretation, which has been signed by 20 representatives from three clubs of the Croatian Government about the work of the Croatian Government, has been made by the Croatian Parliament president and signed by 20 representatives from the three clubs, has been untrue in the very explanation of the interpretation of not telling lies. First,...... No, I'll prove it now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'll prove this claim. First, you're saying in your interpretation text. Second paragraph in the explanation. Article 3 of the Law stipulates that the views of the Republic of Croatia by its representatives are to be governed by the decision of the Government of the so-called Government. the basis for action. Article 4 of the Law states that before the ruling of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament shall draw its conclusion. That's what you say in the interpellation. Now let me remind you that we started these negotiations after your government decided on 29 October to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of an additional protocol with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Your government, chaired by former Pankretic, is making a decision to launch the agreement without a prior request for a debate on the platform in the Croatian Parliament. There she is. Here's the decision you and your government made. ... How is it not disputed? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This is where you claim you should have previously brought the platform, so it's yours. I quote from that. Another false quote or a lie. Meanwhile, representatives of the Republic of Croatia negotiated in the Stabilisation and Association Council on two occasions. I am asking you about Protocol 7 in the meantime, the representatives of the Government are quoting, for the record I quote for all those who do not have an interpretation in front of them, quote the text of the interpretation. On page 2, meanwhile, second paragraph from above: "the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia negotiated in the Stabilisation and Association Council on two occasions". The second round of negotiations even quote was,... Please, second paragraph from above. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it hit you, huh? In the meantime, they're representatives, and I quote your line, so I'll comment. Meanwhile, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia negotiated in the Stabilisation and Association Council on two occasions on Protocol 7. You even set the date when we negotiated, I claim with full responsibility that this is a lie. We have never negotiated representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the Council for Stabilisation and Association. And why didn't we negotiate? Well, because that council doesn't exist. So you're making a lie directly into the text of impelation. So what now? The Council does not exist because the agreement has not been ratified and it has not been established at all, and you say here that we are twice, even the date we negotiated. Now I'm asking you who's here not to say which, who's here what. Come on who's here what. Why do you lie to the Croatian public that the Croatian government has negotiated with the Association and Stabilisation Council when this council does not exist and quote and date? I'm asking this rhetorically, of course, because I'm not asking you because it's not a debate and it's not a dialogue. Next, the next untruth in your interpretation, so let's see the seriousness of you who led the agricultural policy yesterday and were responsible for it in a way that you stayed in debt last year only Mr. Minister ex, 800 million kuna incentives you had promised to Croatian peasants. Third false, next paragraph. As representatives, I quote, "as representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the Stabilisation and Association Council and the Interim Committee were only able to make their views known to Croatia, not some of their own private positions, and that those positions are determined only by the proposal, it is evident that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has played the introductoryly cited Law". You are again calling for our positions at the Stabilisation and Association Council. If we hadn't, by any chance, been a serious government, as we are, we would have simply brought this back with one single sentence in explanation, the text is full of lies and lies. But we are a serious government, so we want to face arguments with this text. Furthermore, you stated here that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as well as the Law on the Implementation of the SAA, is the basis for these negotiations. We claim it isn't. We argue that the basis of these negotiations is exactly what you as a previous government have also made in the light of your decision. So we agree with your government. And your decision of 29 October, the government in which the ministers of the HSS were in, says, on the basis of Article 7. The law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts is decided by the government. Therefore, your government has made a decision under the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts to decide to proceed. And now that we're doing it, that you've made a decision because we haven't made a new position, but our negotiating position, or the team, has continued on the basis of your decision, except that we've changed in numbers, in the membership of the delegation, so we've changed in the membership of the delegation, but we've continued on your decision in which you're calling for no law on the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as you're now trying to tell us that's what you're supposed to do. So why didn't you do it? So, in October, you felt that negotiations on the protocol should be conducted under the Law on the conclusion of international contracts, and now you thought 4 months later, that negotiations should be conducted under the Law on the Implementation of the SAA. Well, that's not how it works. It's not going to work. We continue the negotiations as you have made the decision, and if you were not satisfied with that decision, as we have heard that Minister Pankretic was not satisfied with some of the decisions of his government, then you could then seek impelation with his government. You didn't ask for it, so you didn't ask for it because you were aware that negotiations could be conducted on the basis of a contract like you wrote, based on the Law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts and we're leading them on that principle. Second, I'm going to tell you and now we're going to go and Dren, these were all legal forms, but now we're going to measure things. The interim committee that exists under the Law, when it makes a decision, is final and therefore the legislator in the Croatian Parliament predicted that before the interim committee considered something to come here for discussion and to establish the platform. That was the sense of the legislator and that's right and that's right. So, if something were to be discussed by the Interim Committee, then it must come to a debate in the Assembly, and then we must determine the platform in the Assembly because after the decision of the Interim Committee, which is jointly presented by us and the European Union, then it is a final decision and then more Parliament can do nothing. Since we are negotiating not on the basis of the Implementation Act, it means it is not the temporary committee that is competent, but the Croatian Government is directly negotiating with the European Commission on the basis of the decision of the Government of Ivica Racan, in which you, as you have knownly participated in the coalition. Therefore, neither the Interim Committee is a body to be discussed, nor is it a subject that falls within the framework of the Interim Committee, nor is it, to repeat from a moment ago, that there is no such famous council for accession and stabilisation that you claim we have negotiated with him, and it does not exist at all. And twice you claim in your text. So, it's not all of this is of course very important now, but it should also be said that these negotiations are not about the implementation of the SAA, but are about the signing of the SAA with 15 members. And that it is now a new quality situation as of May 1st, which is 10 new members and that the European Commission is negotiating with them on their behalf. Can't temporarily, the interim board negotiate on behalf of 10 new members, and that's the whole, the whole story. So, not only did we make the decision that you made under the Law on International Contracts, but the Interim Committee cannot negotiate on behalf of 10 new members, but only the Commission can. T is one very important aspect of this whole, in this story. ... He'll go, he'll go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yes, you are. We know what you're up to. We've already heard back from the Croatian today. But it wouldn't, it wouldn't work. Therefore,...... Therefore, the negotiations that the Croatian government is conducting with the European Commission are absolutely legitimate, in accordance with the law and in no way has the law been broken. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Moreover, one of the leading legal experts who, I wouldn't have quoted him if the minister hadn't, the former minister mentioned him here, Professor Rodin, one of the leading experts or Mr. Vresk, I don't know who, Joseph Vresk, the distinguished representative, why not? So let someone else do, so we're always up for it, so you're just in the context of this interpretation taking on as much publicity as possible. So let the waist say its opinion, and the waist says it. The leading expert says the absolute Croatian government acted according to the law. And when it comes to the fact that someone quoted these three committees, then we should say that it was not our duty, based on this argument that I made, to present all these arguments in the House. Still, we went on three committees. On the Committee on Foreign Policy, on European Integration and on Agriculture. And all three committees have jointly reached a conclusion saying that the negotiating positions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are supported in negotiations on the conclusion of Protocol 7, etc. So, it wasn't our duty, we came anyway, we informed, as did the Minister, according to these conclusions, of all three committees that support the government's negotiating platform today and of the additional information you received. We simply, ladies and gentlemen, want to achieve the best possible position of Croatia in these negotiations before the 1 May enlargement. and that is why we must conclude negotiations before 1 May, because the European Union is expanding. Now the commission is negotiating on behalf of the 10th and that's the form we've accepted, which is in accordance with the law as I've laid down. And we want to achieve a good position for Croatia in these negotiations. And it's not true, that the odds will be larger. The odds won't be bigger. The quotas we've had with the Union by now plus the 10 members we've had, with which we've had bilateral ones, when that sums up the odds the first goal is, and now we're going to achieve more than that. The first goal is to make quotas in the sum of what has been so far in 15 plus these 10 so that the quotas don't get bigger. So the odds won't be higher, and that's a solid position. But we're still going one step further, and we want them to be less, and that's what we're going to do. I firmly believe that. And on the other hand, when we speak openly to the Croatian public, and so to speak, it should be said that for all agricultural production except for three we get unlimited exports of duty-free unlimited exports to those 10 countries, which has not been the case so far. Except for Baby Beef, Wine and Fish. So on the one hand, we have a position that we won't agree to any larger quotas, so they can only be in the worst case of the sum of what was 15+10, but the sum of all the former who were or were less than that, but not larger. And on the other hand, we have exports of duty-free unlimited products except for these three that I mentioned. And those three, we're trying to get something bigger. So that's the whole content of this topic. And now I have to say that, we have decided and we will send for ratification of this protocol agreement to the Croatian Parliament. In your decision of the former government stands, but we can agree on that, if you voted for it then, and we can see if you did, whether representatives of all parties in the Government voted for this decision on 29 October. In that decision, it states, this protocol does not need to be sent to the Croatian Parliament for confirmation. It's also in the decision. Here I will quote the correct and accurate article of the 7th decision of the 29th October of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, where it says "the protocol is not subject to confirmation in the Croatian Parliament". All this your former government brought. In which you were very much involved. And we continue our work based on the decision that you have made, we have only changed by force of opportunity, because on November 23rd you have received a decision from Croatian voters that you will no longer represent Croatia. Therefore, it is represented by another political force. But continued on the basis of your decision. Because we think it was good, that it was okay, that it was based on an international contract, a law on the conclusion of international contracts. Only now is the question being asked to me, I am asking it to the Croatian Parliament, are we going to leave the protocol not subject to ratification in the Croatian Parliament, as the Government brought on October 29th or not? I think it would be a good idea for that agreement to come to ratification after all. If you don't mind? But then you'll have to vote against your decision, your former decisions, because that's what your ministers voted for, or the ministers of the former government. I agree. In that same decision, you have made the basis for negotiating even more. I think it would be a good idea for this decision to be published somewhere to see what it is you who are challenging yourself today, because it is your decision that we are continuing, you have made in Article 4 of the negotiating base, in which it says so. As a basis for holding negotiations, the following starting points, etc., are accepted, so that I do not quote everything now. So you brought everything, everything that's been done we're going on, and now it's no good. Until yesterday, you were fine. Today's no good. I wonder why? If the topic is Croatian interest, the interest of Croatian agriculture. And I think it should be, then this isn't a safe way, because this is just a political game and a fight, because the impelation that you've submitted to a series of false lies and lies that I've made clear. I repeat, this government has never negotiated with the Stabilisation and Association Council. And you even quote the date. And a series of other inaccuracies and inaccuracies to which you call. Therefore, with full responsibility, I argue here, negotiations continue in the best atmosphere and with the best intention of achieving these goals. We are prepared, if we all agree to send this agreement together, that is, this protocol for ratification contrary to your decision, if we may amend your decision. If you're not against that change? I am prepared on behalf of the Government to give the word that if such an agreement is sent, we will send the contrary decision to the Government of 29 October to send the protocol when we agree to ratify it to the Croatian Parliament. But I don't agree with that on behalf of the government, that we're being accused of breaking the law. We do not violate the law, we are in charge of negotiations under the Law on the Management of International Contracts, not the implementation of the Law on the Implementation of Stabilisation and Association Agreements. And I'm going to end up with my appeal, because you wanted to, and I want to put the ball down on the ground now, and we really expect it, and I know that it's in everyone's best interest, and I know that your government has done a lot for that AVI too, and that's true, and that's with full responsibility I'm saying. So do we. And we want this positive AVI and the Council's decision, first of all the Council of Ministers, then the European Council in June on candidate status and on the start of negotiations. And it's certainly one thing, and don't ever interpret this as an alibi, I'm not asking for it, but it's certain that the European Commission and the European Union are watching us, are we and how much we are willing to negotiate and negotiate, because only after that decision comes the decision when we start negotiations of aquis communauitaire, let God let it be all the way we predict it by the end of the year or the beginning of 2005, then we have 30 chapters of acquis communautaire, so the legal gains we have to negotiate with the Union, so if we can't show here, but with the support of all, and not with the brakes, with the support of all, if we can't prove our willingness to defend our Croatian interests here at the same time and that we can negotiate important documents with the Union, and then how we'll negotiate these 30 chapters that last two, two and a half years or three, depending on our speed, our performance, efficiency. So, I'm putting the ball on the ground and I'm saying we didn't need this, there's a way that we were ready and we came and we came and we were in two or three committee sessions, we're ready to keep talking, we're ready to meet everyone. And this is, in principle, the objectives that I presented and what situation lies ahead of our negotiating team led by Ministers Grabar, Kitarovic and Cobankovic. So a) quotas must not increase in that sum when we have 15 so far... Plus the 10 new ones we had with them when all the sums should not be larger than they must be less if we can achieve and b) we achieve a duty-free export of all agricultural products to these 10 new countries except these three products that I mentioned earlier. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are the objectives, and I am sure that they are good goals for the Republic of Croatia and that this government takes great care of Croatian agriculture, of the Croatian peasant, not arguing with anyone, much more than anyone else. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9562	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club. First I open up a debate and they go to a number of clubs. Dear colleague Tomcic, I will do as strictly as you do with the Rules of Procedure. Article 211(2) of the Proposer, i.e. the representatives of the Proposer, in the opening of the hearing for a maximum period of 30 minutes, in the hearing at the end of the debate for a maximum of 30 minutes and on the occasion of each explanation during the debate for a maximum period of 10 minutes, so the debate must be opened first, 1 should be spoken, and then when the debate is opened, then you have a further participation in the debate. Then I pray on behalf of the HSLS Club, DC-respected representative, respected Vice President Djurdju Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9563	I didn't sign up first, but fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9564	That's how you're here, that's what it says.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9565	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We, on behalf of the HSLS and DC Club, will indeed not, after these arguments, enter into the legal side of the submitted interpretation or opinion of the Government which it is legally disputed because the arguments seem pretty clear to me. In this House, we have already learned to, to subsequently change attitudes, and then we who have been in one government, in another government, seem to have experience with both and with each other, and we have the right to probably and to a certain surprise. We would like to stress that we have the understanding of the interpretation submitted because the course of the negotiations on Protocol 7 has raised concerns for Croatian farmers. Farmers are quite afraid of this Protocol 7 with too little real information. However, the fact is that more concerns have caused political advances than just a fact. I have to admit that recently I heard the information that, that the protests were announced early next week in Croatia. Protests of farmers on the roads. And that's the information I heard from the Belgrade-Bilogian County of Gareshnica. It is interesting that tractors also appeared in Bulinca this morning, in another municipality where no decision was made on the availability of agricultural land which served as an explanation for the protests of peasants. I really must say that these arguments make me think about what started to happen in Croatia if all these are legitimate ways of political struggle. Interestingly, these same peasants have been quite patient for 4 years even when the price of wheat has not changed. I sat on one of those tractors five years ago and when the price didn't change again, last year I asked if we were gonna go back on the tractors because I don't know what's going on why you're all being quiet right now. I can only guess what the real answers are, I'm sorry that they really manipulate farmers in that way. I think she could actually give up on further arguments because it seems to me that from both the introductory part and the one and the other, and the representatives of the government and the applicants, it is quite clear what this is about and that what we MPs have to keep and the Croatian public is also a promise made by the Government in the Croatian Parliament. And I sincerely hope that the manipulations that often take place in politics and I always regret when it comes to farmers will eventually become completely transparent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9566	On behalf of the promoter, Honored Representative Zlatko Tomčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9567	Mr. President, one previous question, did you hear or, uh, the insults that Mr. Prime Minister has made to individuals and clubs or do you think that's normal? If it's normal, then let me do the same. It seems to me that no one has ever dared this hypocritical, dirty, untrue, acting done, perfectly acting, speak as Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Ivo Sanader. Our interpretation is full of lies and lies, and Ivo Sanader, the current Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, will not remember that he himself wrote such documents in which, simply for the sake of the legal assembly, everything he writes must be quoted. But President Ivo Sanader didn't want to read our argument until the end. So he says the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia negotiated in the Stabilisation and Association Council on two occasions, for him is the point. And he doesn't want to read to the temporary committee. This is the structure of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Interim Agreement and it cannot be separated. And we know Mr. Sanader that there is no council, there is no reason why that fat book that I just showed to our viewers called the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is not in force. And while she's out of power, there's no council. But that's why we have this other booklet that's called a temporary agreement and it's got a temporary committee and it's the temporary committee that's out of this set, it's just a rhetorical legal assembly that can't be separated, this part of the temporary committee is used. Therefore, your lunches, your lunches that are about lies are the most common manipulation. No one has ever dealt with this kind of manipulation of this pay phone before. As is the manipulation that our government has made a decision on... and that we didn't rebel and that we couldn't stand impelation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And a little fakinski: it doesn't work, it doesn't work, there it goes. Because so little fakinage for this talk by the prime minister is not on, it's not a waste. It's simply ignorance, ignorance of the entire course of events, the government has made that decision but that decision has never been consumed, and if it was consumed, so don't be sure there wouldn't be an impelation to it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9568	And as for me, I would pray that you do not, with laughter, follow the presentation of a respected advocate. Please, peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9569	And as for said that this government continues the business of starting governments, a ridiculous finding. No government, so no individual is amnesty from the lack of right. So she could have made a mistake if she'd gone that way, maybe she'd have responded sometime. But you need to know you have no right to do that. You must know you can't negotiate. Maybe Racan wanted to set you up and what I know about what Racan wanted to do. Maybe he set you up, maybe he knew he was going to leave power, so he did a little bit, so he set you up a little bit, didn't he? But you had to know that you couldn't negotiate under the law on the conclusion of bilateral contracts. You must have known that you must return under the auspices of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Interim Agreement. You know, I'm very sad that I have to talk like that about this pay phone, and I've been challenged by Mr. Prime Minister, and it's ugly how he talked like it's ugly and how I say it, but sometimes it just has to be answered with the same measure in order to protect his own dignity. There's been no such ugly talk from this pay phone so far. There was no such duplicity and desire for self - belongings and a desire to impress listeners and audiences. And there could also be talk of two-facedness. There could be talk of two-facedness, two-faced acts related to The Hague indictments. My government may have signed this, this decision to negotiate under the wrong law, but has not delivered any generals to The Hague. You have delivered the entire regiment so far and you swear to protect both their dignity and dignity of the Homeland War and so on. ... When I chair that opportunity to answer you, I will answer. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9570	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9571	The same story is about an exclusive economic belt. You're Mr. Sanader here, for this payphone of tears, this is an illustration, this is an illustration of two-facedness. But let's go back a little bit. Let's get back to the subject. Mr Ivo Sanader says the interim committee cannot negotiate on behalf of 10 members. This law, 9 new members, determines right now that only a temporary committee can do so and no one else can. It's just a temporary committee. I will leave the lawyers to fight, quote articles, but the temporary Committee is the only one who, where negotiations can be held, consult and make decisions on the liberalisation of trade in agricultural, food products and the extension of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the temporary contract for the entry of new members in the meantime. Technically, that job doesn't have to be done in less than two and a half years and that's defined in these laws. And it doesn't seem to be the fact that the negotiations have to end by May 1st. Negotiations don't have to end until May 1st. There's still time for negotiations for exactly two and a half years. What will be the result of the negotiations Mr Sanader has tried to say. That they will not be reduced, that they will not increase the quota but the EU 15 plus 10. And it's wrong, Mr. Prime Minister. 10 countries with which they only had free trade contracts had far lower export subsidies and their goods were less competitive in Croatia than they will be when they enter the European Union and have the right to significantly greater export subsidies. These are all matters that must be taken into account in the negotiations in order to protect national interests. And finally, in this part of the exhibition, I see that the green light will quickly turn on, however red light is, however Prime Minister Ivo Sanader is after the roar, the noise and the Talabasan Club of HSS and said to me, “We want to drop the ball” so I will now say the same. We really want to drop the ball. We really want the government to understand that she has made a mistake, to understand that she is acting against the law and to return simply to this House for permission to negotiate for, for the negotiation strategy, because it is the only way that these negotiations will be within the framework of legality, under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and under the Interim Agreement. Everything else, I assure you, is going to be something radical, this Parliament will come under attack to, to sharpen the illegal actions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We'll have disputes before the Constitutional Court that no one can benefit us. We're going to be a non-serious country. We need avis, we look forward to avis, we look forward to candidacy. That way, we won't do it, Mr. Prime Minister, by the way you started your act today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9572	... Injury of the Rules of Procedure. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9573	Mr. President, the gentleman who was now speaking, fortunately I don't know his name hurt Article 214 and his item 6 and you helped him well. What's this about? He broke Mr. and the Constitution and Article 12 of our Constitution. Article 12 of our Constitution states: “In the Republic of Croatia there is an official use of Croatian language and a Latin letter.” The gentleman did not speak Croatian. In this assembly of parliament, this gentleman is the only one who violates the Constitution, and in the previous session of the Parliament, he was violated by this gentleman and Mr Milan Djukic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9574	Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9575	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here I am thinking that then you and I don't have the same line of interpretation. I have your text of interpretation that you sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament and which the President of the Croatian Parliament sent to me. And in that text on page 2, I'll read it again for the record I didn't skip anything you said doesn't stand for what you said. There is no mention of any temporary committee in the chapter, in, on the second page, the second paragraph. It stands exactly like this: “In the meantime, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia negotiated in the Stabilisation and Association Council on two occasions, in parentheses (the second round of negotiations was 17.3.2004) on Protocol 7 on the extension of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in the area of trade, agricultural food products.” There's no mention of this temporary committee in that second paragraph. But if what you said were true, so it's not, here's the text. That's not true. You've re-conceived or perhaps unconsciously or, in any case, you've given a lie that's been told a lie in the people. If it were true that you wrote that we had been conducting negotiations at the Stabilisation and Association Council and the Interim Committee, which you claim to be standing and not standing in that second paragraph, but if that were to stand too, it would be a lie because we didn't lead it either. We did not conduct negotiations on the interim committee, but we held negotiations between the Government and the Commission, and that's what I've established here, and you're telling me that I said something incorrect because we held negotiations in the council, or you said later that you knew that the council didn't exist, but that it was a joint set of Stabilisation Councils and a temporary committee and that we were leading on the temporary committee. No, we didn't lead the interim committee of negotiations. We didn't lead the interim committee of negotiations. And why do you claim something that we did when we didn't do it? Because if we did, then you would be right, then we should have a platform of the Croatian Parliament, and since we are conducting direct negotiations with the European Commission which decides whether to negotiate on behalf of ten new countries or to find another form of negotiation. It is their decision and they have decided to negotiate a commission on behalf of 10 new members, not a temporary committee. So I want to go public with this one more time for the record. Mr. Tomcic, as an interpreter of this interpretation, has twice presented the untruth, once in the text of impelation, second time repeating here at the pay phone. It's just that what you said isn't true. You can say that I'm acting or not acting, I'm saying what you're writing and I'm commenting and I claim with full responsibility that it's not true that we negotiated either in the council that you eventually admitted and you didn't exist, but we're not on the temporary committee that you claim we are. We're not. We're having direct negotiations with the commission. Therefore, and I repeat this once again, on the basis of the Law on International Contracts, on the conclusion of international agreements, and not the Law on the Implementation of the Association and Stabilisation Agreement, because the subject is not the agreement but the subject of ten new members, and therefore it is a different agreement, and therefore it is not the subject of the Association and Stabilisation Agreement, but it is an additional ten members who enter the European Union on 1 May and it is the whole story. So you can do whatever you want, of course, but this time it's true. So there are lies and lies about the government, about the negotiations that the government is conducting. It would have been much better if you had told the truth, which is that the government is conducting negotiations with the European Commission and not on the provisional committee, then we would have been one step closer to the truth and perhaps a common conclusion. This is how when you continue to insist that we conduct negotiations on the interim committee, and I know why you insist, you insist because then we would violate the law, then you would be right to lead them on the provisional committee. But we're not taking them, we're taking them with the commission, and we're taking them on the basis of this law on the conclusion of international contracts, and that's the whole story. And I don't know why you insist so much on it as if we don't get along well, despite this, I understand what he's saying, but I think it's clear enough that this isn't what you said in the interpretation, that the interpretation is still on the line, because it's still still in paragraph three, the paragraph three mentions a temporary committee unlike paragraphs number two in which the temporary committee isn't mentioned, but it's still not true, because I repeat, we haven't held negotiations on the interim committee. Therefore, I conclude. We will continue these negotiations under the Law on the conclusion of international agreements and I repeat once again, it is our duty to send this agreement to ratification, so this Protocol 7 to ratification in Parliament. If you think we don't have to based on the former government's decision, that's the deal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9576	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9577	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government. We are indeed in an unusual situation here in Parliament that seems to me to be the theater of absurdity when I hear from the prime minister that perhaps something that is incorrectly written is a lie and that completely unnecessary use of that word twenty times during a debate then this is still a theatre. And citizens of all the research we're looking at, headlines in the paper are called Euroscepticism. It is because of us who do not believe that we will successfully bring them closer to Europe because we are, we are dealing with quasi-political rather than real politics. Our citizens... I'm asking all of this to bounce away from time. It's very simple. Many things are simple, citizens are afraid because they are not familiar, and they are afraid because they are about to assume that they are facing a new challenge. They ask simple questions, whether we will get an increase in export quotas and whether these ten countries, 10 countries entering Europe, will have some advantages in their quotas in Croatia, of course, because they will consume those premiums from the European Union that are not available to us. Of course, they want to know if we are going to export raw materials or if we are going to export the final product to these countries and if we are going to manage to raise permanent plantations and vineyards that are waiting for us in this short time as well. Whether or not we will encourage and create regional players, whether or not we will continue those reforms as e.g. which is a agricultural land reform where according to the HSS proposal, the domestic population had the advantage of privatisation for the first time in favour of peasants. Are we going to break that law, that's exactly what's been going on lately. Are we going to let foreigners buy agricultural land? Unfortunately, all our information on this is coming from the media right now. We read that Minister Zuzul promises on the journeys, and unfortunately, the later we realize, imports of heifers from countries where there was the phenomenon of cow madness, and formally and subsequently this is confirmed within the framework of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear friends and gentlemen, is it just a legal issue, or is it really the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to get to know all of us together what policy we will lead to approach the European Union. We in the HSS have not said that we will be against such a government policy, but we are certainly looking for information to be able to tell others. Is it really the most important legal interpretation we've talked about so far? However, it is not only this phenomenon, because we here in Parliament are not talking about other laws that are key to resolving harmonisation with the legislation of Europe. Of course, the Parliament does not discuss anything only marginally, such laws come to our tables. Of course we're not even discussing The Hague here. Of course, it was a practice called Parliament in the old assembly, and if the opposition were in power and if they were consistent who were likely to bind themselves out of honesty and feelings with tree chains, I suppose we would have a majority here today because they would not be here if they consistently applied the policy they stood up for in the past. We hear the answers, we have a mandate, we represent the will of the electoral body, God forbid you think differently because we know best what's good for you. We're not even asking for an opinion, we're implementing a program that isn't actually there. Here, we just heard that the former government's programme is actually continuing, as it is mainly in other sectors, because we haven't heard the new government's programme in the economy, so I dare say we didn't feel it either as well as the citizens of Croatia. Well, maybe it's good to go to Europe as soon as possible, even in this way if Europe is going to make us accept one of the different principles of another democratic norm that we, I'm absolutely sure, will have to and accept as part of our approach to Europe. However, no one here is asking how we are going to solve the fact that our social gross product is several times smaller than in Europe, that our productivity is 10 times lower, that our salaries are several times lower, that foreign investments are several times smaller than in transition countries and that our exports have also been in stagnation for 10 years. The only thing that is several times bigger than us is the external duty that was large and unfortunately still growing. Unemployment is also several times higher. We would like to listen here to whether the HBOR will put into function an export and guarantee bank, whether we will encourage regional players to be ready for challenges to come closer to Europe together, whether we will encourage direct exporters and whether we will resuscitate unnecessary imports. Of course we'd like a bigger and more responsible role of the state. Not state interventionism, but exactly support for those who can be active in the process of approaching. Many times we swear here exactly in Ireland that has been preparing for 15 years to enter Europe, however, which has achieved one consensus. In the first part, it achieved one policy consensus, in the second part between the state, between employers and trade unions and, of course, succeeded. However, here we use the Interpellation Report as one dry legal language, we claim it is not a neck but a neck and precisely all the arguments go in that direction. Negotiations on the conclusion of an additional protocol are being conducted in the form of an international contract, and the Government, I quote: "It is not mandatory to refer to the Croatian Parliament a proposal for a decision and a proposal for a position", here I stress the position, "about those negotiations". However, the fact is that 10 new countries are entering Europe, and this is causing negotiations on the conclusion of an additional protocol with a provisional agreement on trade relations between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. The entry of new Member States of trade relations between these countries and the Republic of Croatia will cease in line with those contracts we had, bilateral, on free trade. We have to adapt the existing agreement in any case because these are brand new moments, the deadlines are completely short because it's May 1st and it's too close to us. However, we can agree that this additional protocol can be treated as an international contract and that it is not subject to this procedure in the Assembly. However, what is absolutely certain would be better if the government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent ministries would consult with the Parliament, not just through the information committee. We are not interested in information, we are interested in the views, the views are of particular interest to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Well, I believe it would be finally time for us Croats to reach an agreement. It is likely that an agreement is needed, and it is possible to achieve the approach of the European Union in order to achieve a good preparation within this time limit and finally achieve what we citizens expect. I assure you, if we continue this way, Euroscepticism and citizens' reserves towards the European Union will continue, and we believe in the HSS that we will not be responsible for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9578	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative of Neven Mimica. Information, another 5 registered clubs and 20 individual representatives per 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9579	Thank you very much, dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable members and members of the government. Here, on behalf of the SDP Club, I will look back on the fundamental issues raised by this impelation. It should be said immediately that the nature of the Institute of Interpletion is not to determine whether the Government is acting in accordance with the Law, but rather to exercise political control over the work of the Government. But as the government in its Interpellation Report generally defends the legality of its actions, then it will also need to say something about the legal side. There is no question for us about whether the Government has violated the Law on the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Interim Agreement on Trade and Related Issues. It is easy for legal professionals to recognise that the provision of Article 23 The Interim Agreement sets out clearly and explicitly that consultations on issues relating to trade policy in the case of the accession of a third country to the community, and that is precisely what this is about, the accession of 10 countries to the community, that these consultations are being held within the framework of the Interim Committee. If that is the case, then, it follows that, when taking positions on negotiating positions for the negotiations on Protocol 7, which are conducted within the framework of the Interim Committee, as prescribed by this Interim Agreement, the Government must unconditionally respect the procedure prescribed by the Interim Agreement Act which it has not done. I would like to remind you that the Law was passed in 2001 on the proposal of the opposition then, as an expression of the desire for stronger supervision of the Croatian Parliament over the implementation of contractual relations with the European Union. The SDP club is on the stand that in the current course of the negotiations on Protocol 7 the government did not respect the provisions of the Law on the implementation of the Interim Agreement. Namely, without asking for the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, the government has established the final negotiating positions on which the government's delegation has already held two rounds of negotiations with the European Commission. At their own initiative, the Parliamentary Committees on European Integration and Foreign Policy and Agriculture held a joint session hearing the oral reports of the Government's representatives on the current course of negotiations on Protocol 7. The committees supported the government's negotiating positions and pointed out the need to insist on defence against the liberalisation of the Croatian market that would cross the level of already agreed customs privileges under the Treaty with the European Union and those bilateral agreements that we have concluded on free trade with 6 accession countries. However, the debate on parliamentary committees cannot, in any case, replace the need to conclude the Croatian Parliament that in this case, a special law lays down. And here we are now all together in a situation where there is obviously no substantive dispute and difference between the government and the parliamentary committees on the desirable and necessary outcome of the negotiations on Protocol 7, but there is a formal legal question about respecting the legal procedure of coming to the common positions of the Government and the Croatian Parliament on issues discussed within the provisional committee. In addition, the Government negotiated Protocol 7 with an unnecessary veil of excessive secrecy. In order to maintain such secrecy, she missed the opportunity to explain to the public the true nature and content of the negotiations, which then further dramaticised the overall perception of the dangers of these negotiations for Croatia's agriculture. The main legal counterargument presented by the Government in its clear interpretation is the claim that the negotiations on Protocol 7 are not taking place within the framework of the Interim Committee, but that they are direct negotiations with the European Commission, in which amendments and additions to the Interim Agreement are agreed. It is therefore claimed that the Government participates in them by respecting the provisions of the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, not the Law on the implementation of the Interim Agreement. It is said that the parliament will be involved in the decision on Protocol 7 at the end of the negotiations, when the government will refer it to ratification of the text of the protocol agreed with the European Commission, which the Prime Minister today confirmed. In these arguments, the only answer to the question remains, what about Article 23 of the Interim Agreement? How are we gonna skip him and ignore him? Because those negotiations on Protocol 7 are no doubt ultimately placed in the formal framework of the provisional committee, no matter how they are treated or who they are currently with. In its statement, the government even fails and avoids explicitly quoting that part of Article 23, which determines that consultations on trade issues arising from the enlargement of the European Union of water within the framework of the Interim Committee. But this selective quote still cannot be easily denied the existence of such an international legal obligation. The government will, by all accounts, have to decide which law it violates. Does the Law on the Implementation of the Interim Agreement, because it does not involve the Parliament in taking negotiating positions under the negotiations under the Interim Committee? Or does it violate the interim agreement itself, though, along with the European Commission, because negotiations are not placed within the framework of the Interim Committee, as set out in Article 23 of the Interim Agreement? Therefore, the government's insistence that negotiations on Protocol 7 should be conducted under the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, in no case at all questionable. That's right. At the same time, however, this does not mean that these negotiations cannot and should not be subject to additional procedures for the inclusion of the Croatian Parliament in the negotiation process as provided for by the Law on the Implementation of the Interim Agreement. The government also represents a number of other legal arguments, which are easily shot down, but this is not the main objective of today's interpretation debate. For example, it incorrectly argues that the negotiations on Protocol 7 are not about the implementation of the interim agreement, that it is not about making decisions of the provisional committee or that the decisions taken by the provisional committee are not subject to further confirmation of the Croatian Parliament. Part of this argument leads us to worry about the inadmissible low level of legal expertise with which the government comes before the Croatian Parliament. At the end of this legal dispute, it should be said that it is not true either, that the only case is when the Law implementing the temporary agreement is lex specialis in relation to the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts is the case for the negotiation of bilateral regional co-operation contracts. The law implementing the Interim Agreement is also a lex specialis in the case of all decisions taken by the Interim Committee, as well as in the case of decisions on customs matters relating to the enlargement of the European Union. Therefore, the fundamental question is not, which law applies here, is the Law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts or the Law on the implementation of the Interim Agreement? In the case of negotiations on Protocol 7 it is clear that both laws should be followed. and therefore, of course, the last government was right when the negotiations on Protocol 7 started under the Law on the conclusion and execution of an international contract, no international contract could be initiated otherwise, but under that law. It is all in the follow-up of the negotiations, if it belongs, and we claim that it falls under the provisions of the Law on the Implementation of the Interim Agreement, only later when negotiating positions are established. Somehow, after all these legal and contained conspiracies, it stops being clear to me what the government's real goal is. At all costs, prove that it has not broken the law and thus defend itself against the assistance offered by the Parliament as the institution which can strengthen its negotiating positions in negotiations with the European Commission or create conditions for the outcome of the negotiations to be in the interest of our agriculture and food industry. And that's where the most important political issue lies. For me, it is not as much related to the formal negotiation procedure as to the content and outcome of these negotiations. If, in the end, those requests from the European Commission which, for some of us, for us sensitive products go all the way to seeking major customs concessions when importing to the Croatian market that sometimes significantly exceed the number of already approved customs concessions, then this would indeed mean a dramatic deterioration of the situation in Croatia's agriculture and food industry. Therefore, in the context of the SDP Club, it belongs to all those who warn that the outcome of the negotiations can only be the level of liberalisation of the Croatian market, which does not exceed the number of customs privileges granted. and not as a rule, but as an exception. Because it should be borne in mind that the customs benefits which in bilateral free trade agreements with Croatia have 6 accession countries will now be able to benefit from significantly larger export subsidies provided by the common agricultural policy of the European Union. We hope and expect our negotiators to fight precisely for this outcome of the negotiations, and that this will not be a priority for them until 1 May of this year, when the European Commission expects and does not commit negotiations to end. It's that their priority will be the real interest of our agricultural producers. It is necessary to remove doubts and fears that the failure to conclude a Protocol 7 to 1 May would compromise the positive opinion that the European Commission should publish in our application for membership in the European Union. Agricultural negotiations are always the most difficult and hard part of the free trade negotiations, and no one realistic expects idyllic relations and automatic readiness to accept the initial requirements of the opposite negotiating party. We have enough reasons and arguments to explain why we objectively need more time to complete negotiations if the other side does not show sufficient understanding and flexibility for the state of our agriculture and the level of differences in competitiveness and differences in the ability to encourage agricultural production of exports. It is therefore necessary to remove any attempt to bind AVI to the outcome and the deadline for the conclusion of the negotiations on Protocol 7, if such attempts are made. The SDP club insists on political condemnation of any violations of the law, especially when they come from those who are constitutionally in charge of orderly enforcement of the laws. In this particular case, however, we see the need for the situation of things in relation to the interpretations submitted first to be seen in the political context of the current moment of our overall relations with the European Union, and the general interest that we have in approaching the membership of the European Union. We therefore believe that the interpretation should be used primarily to create a stronger association between the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government in representing the interest that Croatia has in a specific case negotiates on Protocol 7 but also in the overall process of joining the European Union. The SDP assesses that thus strengthening our negotiating positions can bring far more benefits than would at the moment bring them into debate about the government's trust or possible mistrust to the government for the reasons set out in the interpretation. At the same time, we hold that the Croatian Parliament should avoid a situation which would by no means be an honor to him, which we would have come to if we had allowed clear legal questions and arguments, as well as legal dilemmas stemming from the international agreements of the Parliament to be declared by a revote. Such a vote would necessarily be motivated by political commitment and certain political relations between the parliamentary majority and the opposition. We believe that the government should also avoid a situation in which only the power of the parliamentary majority, rather than the power of the uncontested legal arguments, would be redeemed by the law implementing the interim agreement. In view of all of the above, we find ourselves in agreement that the Government will, at the same time, request a parliamentary conclusion on the negotiating positions on Protocol 7 under the provisions of the Interim Agreement Act. This would result in additional negotiating support from the democratic legitimacy force that only Parliament can give whenever it comes to defining and implementing the general will and interest of Croatian citizens in all matters, as well as in trade customs matters negotiated in Protocol 7. This should be more acceptable to the government when it is clear that the parliamentary and government views on trade relations with the enlarged European Union are going in the same general direction. Even when it is in the law, even if the law does not impose on it, the government would be instructed and politically useful to resort to cooperation and joint action with the Croatian Parliament on this important issue. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9580	Thank you very much, Your Honor. On behalf of the promoter, representative Josip Vresk reported, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9581	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm sorry, I'll be wasting your time for two minutes. I owe you a few explanations. I repeat the arguments that are not as important as how important this text is to the interpretation and which is, I agree with Mr Mimic, primarily the political but also the legal issue, but most of all, the legal formulation was politically used. It is used in the explanation and temporary committee but is also used by the council. But if that is the case, and if it is negotiations with the European Commission, then the government should actually agree with itself, which is actually a violation of the law. But we're sewn up, and we don't think that's the problem, and we're about to drop the tension. One more sentence. I'm obliged to explain the legality of the former government's actions like this. It is true that the former government has made a decision to start negotiations and it is true that it has made such a decision under that general law and under this law, the Government cannot make such a decision at all. I'm talking about starting negotiations. It is not relevant to the act of ratification but this law of 2001, which was passed, we all know on whose proposal and how it speaks of the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament. The law does not regulate the decision to open negotiations at all, so I quote: "This law regulates the procedure for establishing the position of the Republic of Croatia, which its representatives represent in the Stabilisation and Association Council and the Interim Committee when making decisions and recommendations, as well as the procedure for implementing decisions and recommendations of the Stabilisation and Association Council and the Interim Committee in the Republic of Croatia." Therefore, the law does not regulate at all the area of the start of negotiations or the decision that initiates these negotiations. It's the first one. That's why we said both laws apply parallelly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9582	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The Minister, Mrs Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, also answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9583	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, for your honor. I am glad that the respected representative has read this article before. The law implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as it is just saying that the Law regulates the procedure for establishing the position of the Republic of Croatia, which its representatives represent in the Council and the Interim Committee, when making decisions and recommendations, as well as the procedure for implementing decisions and recommendations of the Stabilisation and Temporary Committee Council. The result of the negotiations on Protocol 7 cannot be adopted in the form of a decision of the Interim Committee, since the Interim Committee is not empowered to decide on all issues covered by the negotiations under the provisions of the Interim Agreement. The result of the negotiations will therefore be adopted in the form of an additional protocol in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, not in the form of a decision of the Interim Committee. The negotiations concern the amendments to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Interim Agreement for the accession of the European Union of 10 new Member States. In other words, negotiations are being held on a new legal framework which is not regulated by the provisions of the SAA or by the provisions of the interim agreement. This is also supported by the fact that the European parties to Protocol 7 relate to the provisions of the Act on the accession of the new Member States of the European Union. In accordance with the provisions of Article 6(3) of the Act of Accession, the accession of the new Member States, the existing international agreements concluded by the European Community and its Member States with third countries or provisionally applicable will be governed by the Protocol which, on behalf of Member States, with third countries, therefore, concludes with the Council of the EU and which is negotiated by the Commission. On the Croatian side, Protocol 7 has the importance of amending the basic text of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the ratification of the Assembly is required for its entry into force. Therefore, in a specific case, the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts and not the Law on the implementation of the SAA must apply. I agree that the whole point of the story doesn't have to be legally justified, and I would like to say that when it comes to being transparent that we can't agree on this at all, since, among other things, and in two ways in the Ministry of Europsych integration, we've been briefing journalists who I have to admit were not interested in the subject at the time, only when it began to be politicised then the larger inscriptions in the media began to appear. Furthermore, just as Mr Mimica's respected representative knows, on two occasions we have witnessed in committees, and after the first round of negotiations on this concrete protocol we have reported to the negotiating positions and it is concluded that we will submit the report to the committees. I'm sorry that no one has raised the question that the debate should be held before, in this assembly, because it's something we could talk about back then. So it waited quite long before the government began to complain about ignoring the Parliament. I believe that's not true at all because we responded and the committee's calls, we answered all the questions and delivered a written report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9584	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. Let's discuss it further. I don't think this was an attempt at abuse. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Vice President of the Parliament, Mr Darko Milinovic, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9585	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers in the Croatian government. So the interpretation document on the work of the Croatian government usually raises great attention to the particular opposition. So perhaps the presence of today's opposition here in the Parliament is also talking about the very content of the interpretation and also, ladies and gentlemen, the 20 MPs who signed the interpretation of the work of the Croatian Government seem to be present here at 3 or 4. And that is why I say in the introduction, perhaps the very presence of the mentioned talks about the seriousness of the debate or the seriousness of the content of the interpretation of the work of the Croatian Government. However, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I would like to say a few words about the timing that has been taken to bear this interpretation. I would say that both birds on the border and on the roof of this Parliament know that the Croatian Government, or Croatia, expects a positive "vi" of the European Commission. Also, ladies and gentlemen, we know very well that any instability in this country or the instability of this government could affect the positive "vi" of the European Commission. I don't want to believe that the applicants of this interpretation used to be something like that. I want to firmly believe that this consensus of Croatian parties in this House is a firm consensus. And if it wasn't a consensus waiting for even the slightest chance to compromise the positive avis in any way or endanger the stability of this government. A few weeks ago, we witnessed that the Croatian public tried to upset themselves, and in any case it was sensitised by Hague indictments. Also today from this pay phone and several points of the agenda, it was mentioned that there were no protests and that there were no chains and so on and so on and it was already clear that it was also responsible that Croatian voters, Croatian volunteers of the Homeland War, defenders had confidence in this government, and that is why there were no protests left and all that you mentioned from this assembly pay phone today. But we must also say that we live in the Croatian Democratic Community, and I personally pray every evening to God that the General's journey to The Hague is another one in a series of their winning ways. So when this failed to destabilise the Croatian government or the Croatian state, then a timing is taken to submit an interpretation of the work of the Government of Croatia, and I hope that we are all aware that any debate on the government's trust is very much listening to the European Union and that any vote that may arise by some may not mean a delay in the avis or delaying Croatia to wait for some reasonable time to enter the European Union. Either the interpretation may have been conditioned that often in the media or in the newspaper we read that the Croatian Government in this House has a narrow majority, and I would place the same sign of equality as the narrow majority is equally stable. Because we were witnesses when the former coalition government had a total majority, and in our opinion, it made a lot of mistakes for that very reason. And this narrow majority sign of equality is a stable majority guarantee that this government will behave responsibly and effectively and will persist in the execution of the guarantees provided by President Ivo Sanader in the guarantee card. However, we have seen in the content report submitted by the Government for the interpretation of the Assembly of MPs very comprehensively and professionally explained why this interpretation is not really to be accepted and should simply be rejected. In the attachment to the report we have also received an opinion and read the opinion of Professor Sinisha Rodin from the Department of European Public Law of the University of Zagreb and which results in the fact that the interpretation was actually missed at all its essential points. To understand the Interpletion Institute as the political control of Parliament is welcome and I think that we all agree that we should use it specifically to use the opposition. But when it is noted in this interpretation that it should be, how this Parliament should also control the legality of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is beyond the framework of the work of this Parliament. Both this assembly of parliaments and the previous assembly of parliaments and many other councils actually fought and sought the trinity of power in terms of executive, legislative and judicial authority. So if this Parliament were to speak or make any decisions on the legality of the work of this or any other government, then it would no doubt actually come into question and injure the Constitution as the only Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is the institution responsible for that. As noted in the opinion, the signatories of the interpretation highlighted a number of wrongly unfounded allegations because the Government is not negotiating with the European Commission ladies and gentlemen but is talking about some changes to the SAA to take account of the enlargement of the European Union tomorrow, under quotes tomorrow with 10 new members. In view of this fact, this fact in the interpretation is incorrectly stated that the Government should act in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Implementation of the SAA in those negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is using Article 112. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall implement that same policy towards the European Union. And it is absolutely clear that the Law implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is not applicable to the negotiations on Protocol 6 and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not actually been able to harm it. Some of the signatories of the interpretation have resented and reacted to the Prime Minister's statement that this is about politics, but when I say, in fact, when we see from past statements that the content of this interpretation is so much, I will use a mild expression incorrect then we might consider that it is also about certain politics. And it is also very difficult to believe that any such serious government could have such a failure to implement its policy towards the European Union. Such thinking is not only unfounded but it is possible and not only offensive for the Government of the Republic of Croatia but for a number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who gave unequivocal support to this government several months ago. The prime minister stressed that the government of the Republic of Croatia, when speaking here from this pay phone, had heard it, although it was not mandatory, heard several opinions from the parliamentary committees so that it would also have reasonable positions for the talks to be held in the European Union. It should therefore be said again and pointed out that the results of the negotiations will come before this House, and it is clear to everyone that this high house is the only one who can ratify international contracts. This interpretation is, in addition to us, an attempt to return the favor of part of the voters, which is certainly the legitimate right of every political party and the applicant of this interpretation, but perhaps some bother that Croatia is actually moving unconstitutionally towards European integration. In a few days or a few weeks, Croatia is actually expecting a positive avis, and it is becoming more and more certain that we hope that talks will soon follow in the accession of the European Union. In recent times, various opinions have also been heard in public, bringing us all the bad things in the European Union. So I would like someone in this House to set an example of a country that has entered the European Union, which does not live better or a country that has entered the European Union and has used some institutions to get out of the same European Union. Some of the advantages of the European Union and the reason why a growing number of countries want to enter the circle are the Single Market, the Economic Monetary Union Security Policy as well as cooperation in the areas of justice and home affairs. The European Union also includes a very important social component in its integration, as one of the objectives of the community is to improve living and working conditions and strengthen social cohesion. It is therefore perfectly understandable that Croatia, which has long been considered an important component of Europe, is seeking access to the European Union and only ladies and gentlemen, is a set of historical circumstances causing the fact that Croatia must subsequently apply for accession to the European Union. And after the November 23rd elections, the Croatian voter said to the Croatian Democratic Community, we in the Croatian Democratic Community met with two problems. One problem is the pre-election campaign that scared Croatian voters if HDZ comes to power to be isolated, that the Croatian state will be isolated. On the other hand, we had to prove to this same Europe, to the same world the Europeanisation of the Croatian Democratic Community and people who today and who will lead the strongest party in Croatia in the future. In more important international contacts and talks in Europe, it is presented, and some do not want to accept this new political elite with a Europeanly acceptable ideological option, pro-European-oriented and fully agreed with the systemic values that exist in the European Union. It is also good to stress that after a two-day meeting of the interparliamentary Union held in Brussels at the end of February, European Parliamentarians asked the European Union to actually start negotiations on Croatia's membership in the European Union before the end of this year. It would also be good to point out that most of the countries that enter the Union in May this year, enter the Union, have negotiated their entry for four and more years as some are in Europe, and here we have the argument that Croatia will not enter the European Union in 2006 or 2007. However, there is an anti-argument of Slovakia whose negotiations lasted less than two years, which is also a very strong argument for us in the Croatian Democratic Community that Croatia can achieve its membership in the European Union within that deadline. And after all, ladies and gentlemen, the question arises, which is actually the real motive of putting up with this kind of interpretation. Real concern for the Croatian economy and the standard of Croatian man or perhaps ladies and gentlemen of jealousy that some new political furniture or some new leaders will be introduced or re-entered in gold letters in the history of Croatia as a political set that has introduced Croatia into the European Union. Finally, the more difficult position of this government in negotiations with the European Union is also the rapid signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement 2001. We have the assurance of European parliamentarians who are telling us that we are and we all know that we have had two months to negotiate in order to ensure a better negotiating position. It is to believe that the Croatian Parliament will rightly reject this legal and politically unfounded interpretation, and also since the ball was coming down to the ground and I have one proposal to bring the ball down to the ground...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9586	A fellow vice president if you're there.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9587	...and ask the HSS to withdraw this impelation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9588	Thank you very much. You're here. On behalf of the promoter, Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9589	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to do with this termology that's here and ended up with an esteemed representative and vice president, putting the ball down on the ground, but before that, he's characterized something political that we won't agree on, and I have to say, no jealousy. The purpose of everything was very clear. Because of the lack of information, I would say secrets, because of the public of Croatia who, and we are all witnesses and finally look at several of the latest polls conducted in this direction. We wanted to talk about these problems. I don't think the objectives Mr. Prime Minister spoke of here, such as reducing quotas, are at all questionable. However, the second goal that Croatia will get new export areas in terms of new countries, we have. I think the minister knows that even without signing the accession of the new members, we are getting that market because these members signed it with the European Union. We therefore have an agreement with the European Union and we have no problem exporting to all these new markets, so 15+10 is our new market. What I'd like to say was not the goal of destabilising the government, was to get information, to talk about information, to strengthen our position. I would ask you to understand that one thing is when a certain thing is reached at a plenary session, and the other are certain conversations based on certain initiatives. I think if we want to avoid all this, and I believe that's what we all want. If we want to avoid this part of legal supremacy, even though the words here are difficult. I think we need to focus that it's clear to everyone, and you can look at the practice of all countries, agriculture is the last question that's being solved because it's specific, it's difficult and I don't think there's any dilemma in that part. So let us not be hasty in that part, let us not be too quick to make certain decisions or certain signatures because this may come back to us in an ugly way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9590	Thank you very much, colleague. Minister Cobankovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9591	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Let me say a few words. I don't think there's any claim that the government has held these negotiations in some way too much secrecy, but that we're standing at the point of view that these are the negotiations that are being conducted in the most transparent way so far. In addition, it says that we have notified the parliamentary committees on several occasions. If we had discussed the issue of signing Protocol 7 with the economics in the Chamber of Commerce, we were having talks and talking to those whose Protocol is most relevant, you know. We introduced them to the situation and I think it is not good to keep talking and talk about those starting quotas that the European Commission has sent to the Croatian government as a basis for negotiation. The following is what I would like to say, and this is what Mr Pankretic spoke of, he spoke of the ways in which negotiations were being held with Hungary and how much were being conducted and the result was the Free Trade Treaty between Croatia and Hungary with which Mr Pankretic himself said that as a minister he was not satisfied. So it's not time that we're going to be satisfied with what we're going to achieve in the negotiations but is a far greater factor in the quality of the negotiations. And in that direction, I think that this government has done a quality, quality thing through the preparation of guidelines for the conduct of these negotiations and given quality guidance for these negotiations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9592	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Representative Kolar. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9593	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, I am correcting the incorrect assumption that you have met all the interested groups and positions of negotiations, the way of negotiations and everything else. I'm not going on board with what kind of principled information was. I claim responsibly that there are no peasants, no agricultural producer, no family household that you negotiate, how you negotiate, which is waiting for him at this time or the time of accession. I'm telling you because I'm a peasant and I'm sitting in this House, so I don't know that, and if he knows the public, it's really misinformation. I'm sorry, I had to react.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9594	Let's move on with the debate. Minister. I think we'll give him permission to speak from the scene.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9595	Thank you for giving me one more word, but also, let me just say that the whole Stabilisation and Association Agreement has been negotiated in three circles, without consulting all those involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9596	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please. Representative Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9597	Madam Vice President, I think it's obvious to you that the gentleman is not answering my question, but has abused this. I think it's time... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9598	A fellow representative, I...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9599	He can do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9600	I'm in violation of the Rules of Procedure if I don't insist that you refer to the article when you're already going to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We can have an understanding because the Rules of Procedure regulates the moments when he is gone, so please. Representative Pankretic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9601	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I'll just keep it short, the truth works. I don't think this is any issue. I mean, we're not going to convince each other now, but let's remember the initiative of MP Tomcic on the Foreign Political Committee, the conclusion is that the Committee meets three committees. In fact, first 2 committees, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Agriculture. Next, the Foreign Policy Committee joins in. So the initiative went that way, and in that direction we were kind of getting information. Well, we can honestly say that after the second round of negotiations it was almost forbidden for drivers to communicate with negotiators so that any information would not come anywhere. I mean, it's the fact that it's never been like that, you can ask the press, talk to everyone, it hasn't been so secretive. And it caused it in a certain way...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9602	I ask you nicely, first of all, for silence in the assembly. I agree you're not discussing the metrics here, that's correct. However, we also have to respect the Rules of Procedure, and it seems to me that you are currently competing on who was first and who was faster, and I don't think that's an integral part of the document we're discussing. Please, nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9603	I'm just saying that there have been certain things, and I would ask the honourable MPs to listen because I think that for all of us here not only in this assembly, but in Croatia, the latest polls that have come up, which talk about certain things and the European Union's acceptability in Croatia, are something that needs to be concerned about us. I am responsible for saying that there was no such transparency in this process and that we should fix it, that we should correct it and that what Mr. Minister said is certainly the most important thing, the quality of the negotiations and what we will get, but also this, I would say, the public who will certainly not be able to strengthen our negotiating positions in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9604	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the Club LIBRE Representative Jozo Radoš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9605	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam and Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This debate that we are having today only makes sense if it leads to a real content debate about what I think is the intensity of the proponent of this interpretation. If not today, but after this, certainly before reaching an agreement does not follow this debate, the substantive debate about being a thing then what we are doing today is a complete failure. The failure is also due to the level at which the debate is being conducted, and also to be guided only by formal issues, it is not, therefore, about being things. I must say, I've never heard in this House that the Prime Minister so fiercely and so rudely attacked any club of representatives, and it's particularly surprising what actually happened about one minor thing. I allow the club of representatives, i.e. the club of the representatives of the HSS, to have not been best formulate some parts of the interpretation, but in the political sense of the club of representatives, therefore, the proponent of the interpretation has no reason to object and certainly did not deserve such a fierce attack when the representatives of this speaker were repeated words which, if there are no strong reasons to avoid it. Here, I've been a representative for 14 years, 12 years in this House, I've never heard the Prime Minister speak to any representative in this way, and that's certainly not good. But more important than that, we don't really talk about being a thing here, which is, of course, the intensity of the proponents of this interpretation. Agricultural policy is the most important policy any country, which means Croatia, which is accessing or joining the European Union, has to solve. According to its social and other consequences, it is the most important policy and it is therefore important for the Croatian Parliament to be involved in this process. And it's quite secondary here, of course it's not irrelevant, because I understand these discussions about which one of these laws in this case has been broken, but it's absolutely important to see what it's really about and that Croatian interests are in this sense trying to protect themselves. This is important, and it is not crucial, therefore, whether these agreements are governed by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement Act or by the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, but it is clear when the political essence of these two laws is seen, that the Law on the Implementation of the Agreement is far more important because it has much more important, higher political content than the Technical Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, and it would be best if the Government had conducted negotiations so as not to violate any of those two laws. That the Law on the Implementation of the Agreement is a more important law shows several findings from the government's own representative, including the Prime Minister, when he says that we did not negotiate at the Stabilisation and Association Council but between representatives of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission. Well, I guess the level of the European Commission is more important, which means, of course, the importance of the subject itself, than the level of the Council. So this can't be an argument, it can be an argument of a formal legal nature that the proponent misforms some elements of interpretation. But it is absolutely a confirmation that this is an important issue, because I cannot negotiate council representatives, but it is essential that such large issues be negotiated by the European Commission. Then it is said that this is not the implementation of international contracts, but something even bigger, which is the change of those same international contracts. Well, I guess it's more important, I guess it's also more important to attach itself to the process if it's about a possible change of international contract than its implementation. So it should, of course, draw the conclusion that the Croatian Parliament should be involved in this matter, even if these laws are interpreted one way or another. And that's absolutely not what's irrelevant, so that's absolutely the most important question, and that the law has been broken and whether the formulation of the proponent is the interpretation of such or such, whether it's formally correct, it's an absolutely secondary question. It should also be said that we should, of course, welcome on behalf of the Club of Libre the statement of the Prime Minister, that the quotas after these negotiations will not be bigger than they are today. This means that the quotas we had with the European Union and quotas with these 10 countries after the negotiations were concluded, that is, after these countries become members of the European Union that these quotas will not be greater than they are today. This is the ultimate goal, and this statement by the Prime Minister should be welcomed. But shouldn't the Croatian Parliament be involved in these matters? The important difference between these two laws, which we are arguing about here without much benefit, is that according to the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international agreements, the opinion of the Croatian Parliament is given later, when, as you know, it is increasingly over, and according to the Law on the Implementation of the Agreement, the Croatian Assembly gives its opinion before the agreement with the other party is concluded, whether it is the European Commission or whether it is a provisional Council. So it's absolutely the most important thing. and on such important issues, I think the Croatian Parliament should discuss this agreement before the agreement is concluded. Especially when we know the state of our relations, but according to current agreements, with two neighbouring countries, Hungary and Slovenia. What is said here by former Minister Pankretic, which of course did not challenge Minister Cobankovic, that the ratio of the quotas of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary is 1:10. That's really defeating. And you should try to see how eventually that relationship can be fixed. And that's what we need to talk about in this House. According to the Council of Europe, Hungary is one of the best countries in terms of the development of its agricultural production in relation to other countries. This is an economy, i.e. agriculture that has traditionally been export-oriented and has been growing in Hungary for the past few years, so in 2001 it was 538m euros, and in 2002 it was already 618m euros. The country's agricultural production surplus, which will appear to us in many segments as a competitor, in the European Union and today, when both Croatia and Hungary are not members of the European Union are still formally looking at either formally. Equally when it was done by Slovenia, it was also the neighbouring country which is a great rival for us in that segment and will remain a competitor when we are together in the European Union. Slovenia has already accepted the European Commission's proposals on reforming the common agricultural policy and has already put these proposals that are yet to be established in the European Union in its development strategy and reform of the Slovenian agricultural policy. This says it is a high level of understanding and harmonisation of agricultural policy, and this country will also appear to us tomorrow in Europe as a competitor. and these issues should, in fact, be discussed and less focused on whether an agreement on the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts has been broken or on the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. and I finally conclude all this that I was saying, there is only one goal, which is that the Croatian Parliament before an agreement is reached with the European Commission on amending the agreement, that the Croatian Parliament is discussing this previously and giving its opinion. That'll have two good things. The first good thing that we will certainly make this agreement better, or at least we will not spoil it, because, of course, our government negotiators with the position of the Croatian Parliament will have a stronger political negotiating position and we will certainly have a better agreement than we would have without it. And another equally important, perhaps more important reason to create a favourable atmosphere. I absolutely don't believe that when it comes here to ratification of a changed agreement, we'll have a consensus about it. I fear we will have conflicts over this, which will be unfavourable in this agreement, and these agreements are absolutely impossible to achieve that something in them is not unfavourable for the Republic of Croatia. and therefore the authorities would be smarter, so this is not only the relationship of the executive authority to Parliament, but the ruling majority towards the opposition to transfer some of the responsibility through information, through the debate and to the opposition, so that at a time when this agreement comes to ratification in the Croatian Parliament, if we will continue to operate under the Law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts, we will be here in the Croatian Parliament on this key issue having a better atmosphere than it is today. These are therefore reasons why I support the political intensity of the interpretation of the Croatian Peasant Party's proposal, and I expect that in the Croatian Parliament before an agreement is reached between the Croatian party negotiators and the European Commission we will have a debate on the agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9606	Thank you very much. Minister Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic spoke. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9607	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representatives. I agree with Honorable Representative Radosh, that there are a number of issues we can discuss in this assembly. However, the fact is that the interpretation is addressed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia with legal arguments with a finding, namely the claim that the Government does not implement the laws. And that's why we're talking about legal arguments today. It is normal to discuss this when the interpretation itself is based on the claim that we do not respect the Law on the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. When it comes to the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament in the framework of the Law on the Implementation of Stabilisation and Association Agreements when it concerns international agreements, it should be pointed out that this Law on the Implementation of the Agreement regulates the supervision of the Croatian Parliament only on the procedure for the conclusion of bilateral agreements on regional co-operation, and not on this kind of protocol which will be as, which will be concluded and which will be referred to the Parliament for ratification, which means that the Parliament will be involved in the process and has been responsible so far, because we have spoken in the context of clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9608	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go, my colleague. And another club and 18 reported. And I don't know if it's important information, no transmission.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9609	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First, the HSP Club is dissatisfied with the debate on this very important topic so far. Now, I'm going to tell you right now why we the rightdoers signed this interpretation, three of which are important reasons. First, to finally open a debate in this House on the situation in Croatian agriculture, that is the most important reason why we signed this interpretation. Second, the important reason is that, above all, God's laws should be respected and negotiated in the interest of Croatian peasants, Croatian fishermen. Not negotiate as the law says. It's the most important interest of this government, and that's how it's supposed to be negotiated. As far as information is concerned, it is necessary to inform who, first of all, how was this done in Slovenia? The Croatian farmer, so he must know, and the Croatian fisherman, he must know what and how to negotiate or negotiate over his back and it will all end at the end of it. So that's the most important part. Let's get out of shape and everything else, let's go to the core of the problem, that's the most important thing right now. We also know that Croatia can feed 20 million people according to its capacities. And we know that there are 4.5 million of us, so I'm just going to remind you of last year's situation in Croatian agriculture. The most obvious thing that tells you is that last year we imported agricultural products worth 1 billion 255 almost 256 million dollars. That best tells you what the situation is. And we also exported 768, 768 million 300, 769 million dollars of production. So with regard to our capacities, it should be done the other way around. That the export is ours so big, it means over a billion and 300 million dollars and that our exports are at 700 million dollars. They would thus prove to me that the situation in Croatia is far better. I'm just going to give you a hint of what we've been importing. We've imported, say, bumblebees and I hear that we're still importing bumblebees today for a bumblebee of 13.5 kuna. We imported a hay of 15.5 kuna. We imported straw, bone, we imported flowers because with our production we only met 3% of needs and the amount of imports was 50 million euros. It must also be said that Israel, for example, from whom we are now learning how to irrigate it on the export of flowers in a way that about 20% of its GDP is from the export of flowers. And we're going, and we have far better climate and other conditions to get to that situation. Therefore, to expect what was, there was, let's draw, let's continue to work in the interest of Croatian peasants. In order for this to be done properly, we must first be able to balance what is produced in Croatia in what quantities the state should target that production. But in a way to direct production to know exactly who our peasant is going to sell what he's making. So that's one of the most important things because the state in this situation has to interfere with it to get the Croatian peasant on his feet. In this he must normally follow him, follow the Croatian banks, but unfortunately we no longer have them. For this reason, it is necessary to go to the Croatian Post Office or Agro Bank, which will finance Croatian peasants in a way that allows them to be able to produce, which the state will encourage, to subsidise. That this way he tells him exactly who he'll sell to, what amount, that we won't have a protest every year about wheat and stuff like that. Therefore, it is expected from this government, expected by a Croatian peasant, the Croatian fisherman expects it. And most importantly here now, let's just put the story back on the other side. It's not just about talking about import quotas. Import quotas have already given us such a natural nature that last year, for tourism purposes, we imported something about 70% of your needs. Let's talk about export quotas. This is what the Croatian fisherman expects first of all. Do you know that in the export quota, we're supposed to only export 120 tons of heart, so only 120 tons of heart, 50 tons of anchovies. Do you know that we, say last year, only exported means out of the fishing area for 163 million dollars. And how many options do we have? So that's what we need to negotiate. Look at the point. We have good export quotas for those things we don't have and for those things we have weak export quotas, so that's what we expect to take that important step. So we work, we protect Croatian agriculture, we protect it from imports, we know what was done with the opening of large trade chains, 70% are foreign goods, so from these trade chains that drag their goods out. Minister Schuker himself told us that we charge 70% of VAT at the border. So agriculture is a branch, an economic one in Croatia that can and must be placed on our feet to be our export branch. Therefore, inform the Croatian Parliament first of all, but first inform the Croatian fisherman, the Croatian peasant. It'll be the right way to negotiate, so no, and make agriculture stand on its feet. If you continue to import a bumblebee for 13.5 kuna, hayed at 15.5 kuna, we will ask to be replaced. Therefore, we return to the topic and take care of first of all the Croatian peasant, the Croatian fisherman in a way that he can live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9610	Thank you very much. This back to the subject is a good suggestion. Minister Cobankovic called for a word. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9611	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Kovacevic, I would be far happier if we had opened the topic today to discuss the problem of agriculture. I think we'd have a lot to say about it and it would be far better, more content and quality of the debate. But unfortunately, we're here today at the request of interpretation. You know? How you asked for an impelation. I can also ask for a debate on agriculture in the same way, and I am ready to open the debate so that we can talk openly about all the problems we face in agriculture. But also not only with the problems but also with the strategic specifics that this government is in, I would say these 100 days as my strategy for the development of agriculture and which I am trying to implement. Because you know, I'm as aware as you import sizes, I'm aware of the danger of importing it but I said we were welcomed when we came that we were forced to go on importing those products that we've always exported. There are objective circumstances, there was a major elemental accident, there were reduced quantities and yields and crops of these products, but I am free to say subjective failures, subjective failures in shape, which we allowed to export 30 thousand tonnes of wheat at the 11th month, and then in the 1st month we import these 30 and an additional quota of 50 thousand to stabilise the wheat market at all, and with wheat and flour. Next thing you know, what we're standing on and what we're going to endure is finally introducing order into the agricultural product market, and I think we've shown everyone that we want to go seriously and resolutely and, and, and that's why I couldn't accept those amendments that were trying to do as I said when I represented him. We're not in a position to make holy water out of the law so that someone will pay 500 kuna for the traffic of certain products in an unauthorized way. It's a violation, and that's our intensities. And I'm ready, call, open a debate on agriculture, and let's talk openly, and I believe we're talking about the problem of agriculture, and I'm convinced that this assembly today would be full, not just as it is today. And I must say, a large number of MPs are sworn to take great care of Croatian agriculture. Today we are discussing what you say about an important, important thing for Croatian agriculture. Let's see for ourselves how many of us are in the assembly room.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9612	On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Zlatko Tomčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9613	Mr. President, I just thought the ball was going down, but no, it's still going up. They're still falling in love with each other and it's certainly not good. Mr. Minister, why are you using this interpretation to remind how many MPs would be here to discuss agriculture? We are discussing agriculture and an important part of agriculture. About that part of agriculture that the Croatian peasant is most interested in. What kind of competition he will have this year, next year, 2006 and so on. That's what our peasant is primarily interested in. It wasn't long ago when this assembly was full when we discussed the Budget for this year. When we wanted to admit it or not last year, we reduced the state budget by EUR 200 million and thus objectively delayed the possible time for adapting Croatian peasants in terms of competition for the European Union. We have people left for this adjustment this year, next year and 2006 and no more. With this dynamic investment in agriculture, this level of budget will not result in a sufficient critical mass of Croatian agriculture that will be able to compete with European agriculture. We're not gonna win. Let's talk about it. And when under these circumstances, when a peasant is aware that there is less and less money invested in raising his competition, his competitiveness, when some black curtain is created over Protocol 7, when the information is buried to the public. When, in fact, the daily press first begins to report to us on the proposition of export quotas from the European Union to Croatia after the signing of Protocol 7. So let's remember the first information was present in the Croatian press just over two months ago. First information. They didn't come from the government. They didn't come from the Department of Agriculture. So why should we talk differently now than exactly what it is? Oh, my people, we will face the fact no matter how polite or rude we speak in this house. We will face the fact that this is the way in which the negotiations on the liberalisation of the trade in agricultural products are going to fall rapidly in the mood of Croatian citizens, especially those who live on agriculture and who are in any kind of dependence on agriculture, will fall rapidly in their acceptance of the European Union. That can't be our goal. That's what happened in the last 10 days. I don't have any illusions. I know that certain emissions and certain water research are being done and tendingly, I know that there are any desires and desires, but Croatia cannot be a strategic interest or a national goal to us... This European Union acceptability and integration processes in 10 days are 75% at 18, 20, 25% depending on who is the author of emissions research and so on. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what worries me. And if that's true, and you're going to admit it's true, and you're going to admit that there's not enough money in the State budget for any purpose, so there's not enough for agriculture either, but you're going to admit that we have 200 million less in this year than last year. Then let us at least try to comfort the public, comfort Croatian peasants with open access to this problem in a way that they know every moment of what is being negotiated, what are the quotas being discussed, what are the requirements of the European Union? Don't think you know that the European Union is something that is untouchable. Something you can't talk about. We are partners with the European Union. On the one hand, the European Union, on the other hand, is Croatia. Read the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Read the interim agreement. Read all the laws and documents that regulate these relationships. There's talk everywhere about communication, dialogue, mutual interest. So how come we do not have the strength to tell the European Union is not a mutual interest and we cannot accept such a rapid change of quotas within such a short time. I remembered what was said here today. EU 15 + 10 new countries = EU 25. And it's too much and our agriculture can't, it can't take it. And Mr. Mimica and I said one sentence at a time. Ten new European Union countries had modest subsidies and modest export quotas if they had any. The moment they enter the European Union then subsidies for their primary production are different. Then their ability to subsidise exports is different and then it is no longer the competition, the 10 countries with the quantities. It's another competition, then. Then the products from those countries, which until today, we could have exhausted as reasonable prices, will suddenly become unacceptable on our market, and our peasant will not be competitive with those prices either. We've got to take care of that, too. Then why don't we simplify it? It's very simple. Here's just a question of whether or not you want to accept the fact that the negotiations are about to begin? In the end, the lawyers told us that they could not have been any other way but rather the government's decision, but that it implies moving to the area of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Interim Agreement. If there's no other solution, if there's one thing to do, sort of resuscitate and public relations, if there's no other solution, then what's the problem? So to whom will the crown of the head fall back, to put that problem back into this other legal system. I want to say something more detailed later, more detailed about it because I wouldn't bother you right now. It would simply be no problem to return to the system of the interim agreement, open negotiations, if you are or if you are not all one within the framework of the Interim Committee. The Interim Committee is the only one who has the right to make decisions in these cases, of course when they are translated into a contract of course to come to ratification in this House. But at any moment we allow the Croatian public and the Croatian Parliament to participate actively in the process. And another very important thing. It is neither mandatory nor any place where there is a obligation for the Republic of Croatia to sign this contract by 1 May. That obligation doesn't exist. The commitment exists by mid-2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9614	Thank you. On behalf of the club of HNS representative PGS, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9615	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Although this is a difficult and serious issue, I will speak as always without using the hard words and finish before these traffic lights start blinking. The main problem is not only today and here in this debate but also in the Croatian public, and it certainly interests people, with whom negotiations are actually being conducted, and it has been said in the media that bilaterally with 10 future members, with the European Commission, in the provisional committee and this shadow of uncertainty is still present. It is very simple to resolve if we get the names of the negotiators on the other side and we will know who they represent. The law implementing the Cooperation and Association Agreement is clear. Croatia's position in the negotiations is determined by the Parliament. The interim agreement on trade issues between Croatia and the European Community is also clear because it explicitly mentions that in the event of the accession of new members of the European Community, consultations and negotiations will be launched within the framework of the Interim Committee. However, the fact that for me is far more important, that we are indeed in the content of the negotiations, so let the legal ambiguities or different views so far be released that the content of the negotiations negotiated, which were the initial requirements on the other hand, where the border on the Croatian side is both the Parliament and the public are excluded from it. I want to and must remind myself of the fact that this Agreement on Cooperation and Association was adopted in this Croatian Parliament that the representatives of the HDZ then left the meeting and was later said to negotiate a stronger or stronger agreement. So this interpretation and this debate today is about simply trying to convince us that what will be the finale of the negotiations will be in that direction that Croatia's even stronger position will be after the negotiations on Protocol 7. For example, negotiations may go, as Poland has gained its status and has negotiated that, after becoming a member of the European Union, there is still a number of years of delay in the application of certain points or components. What, then, is being negotiated today? Unfortunately, there was no speech at all. On quotas, on 10 new members entering with 1.5, on unused or unused quotas which they have so far had. We know that part of the countries with which we had agreed quotas, which in 1.5 became members could not make use of the export quotas to Croatia, so that exports from them were less than quotas, by transferring these contracted quotas to the European Union would be used by some other member of the European Union. It is also likely to negotiate customs duties, i.e. the suspension of customs duties on exports from Croatia to the European Union or the European Union to Croatia. Who asked Croatia to do what? Why these negotiations have opened now, there has been no debate today, and I always do, and that will always be my position, if there is a dilemma that determines the starting positions and the negotiating platform. Is it in the government's or parliament's jurisdiction that whoever has this dilemma should always go to the system to benefit the public and parliament. And I'm done with the next one. I firmly believe that Croatia will get a positive... And all of us in this room believe it. [[You don't understand.]] It is a condition for the start of negotiations in Croatia's membership of the European Union. Negotiations will begin, I hope for no longer than two years that's probably what the prime minister wants, and then they're done and what's next. A referendum. During the referendum, Croatian citizens will decide to join or not to join the European Union. Do you think all together that such an atmosphere in the public and possible disputes as soon as we start negotiations in the European Union will go hand in hand with a positive decision. Whether or not we are always going when there is a dilemma in favour of the public and Parliament makes us a positive atmosphere for this referendum or not. This is agriculture one of the most painful and difficult points of negotiations, I don't underestimate any of them. And precisely because the final decision, and the first serious negotiations in the expectation of AVIA on Protocol 7 in the Croatian public, led to the fact that trust in the European Union in Croatia is falling, we can come to a situation where with the results of the negotiations we are extremely satisfied and all the negotiators and this Parliament, that we are coming out of really good and favourable conditions, and then we fail to convince the voters of the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, I appeal and ask that, in particular in this political aspect, the finale of the negotiations, which is the referendum, be taken into account by those who are conducting the negotiations, is taken care of by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and by the Prime Minister himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9616	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative, Lesar. Now we've exhausted the club debate. Dear Representative Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9617	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. It is a rare opportunity for a peasant to speak directly to you in the House, a man who took place in the village where he had acquired the property and here in Parliament is fighting for the dignity of peasants for the sake of the village and where every spoken word finds its weight and I believe that if there were us all there are 152 at least 20 of us to be used in a way to talk about the core, the essence of things and the way this Parliament likes it. Namely, I convey to you the concerns of villages, peasants, family households, parts of the food industry that listens to, follows, in the end it has already been said, various interviews, I was one of which the polls were examined about the meaning of the negotiations on quotas, the way of negotiations, etc., and polls have shown that we were actually beginning to be Eurosceptics rather than being pro-European-oriented citizens. I assure you next. Our village, peasants, slave producers have taken a deep bite in Europe, gone to Europe and past political integration, past the debate on whether we need Europe or not, they are participants in these processes. Participants were either technological progress, whether or not organising production, and they are not interested in our political bickering or politics. In that sense, rather than the conditions that will be created for us. And that's why as we discuss it, I'm really appealing to the government, to the Resort Ministry that we don't need to be afraid of the public whether she's on this side or that side but should be properly prepared, informed, if necessary and educated. But personally, as far as I know, if the sum of 15 plus 10 is 25 and all of that was summed up more than 15, right, and it shouldn't result in that same number, that being an awful negotiation and that all of it would be accepted together. It has already been said, and I assure you of the last conversation in Hungary, someone else mentioned the country, to me it is neighbouring, I have good neighbourly relations with one county and one city. They are now seeking not these 10% of the funds that will have the right to use but a 10-year delay not to be applied to them when they enter this regime that is dark. You know why? Because their subsidies are falling into the water, and the European Union is not giving them that much. Now I wonder if my fear is justified, is it possible that the same thing can happen to us when we enter? If that's true, then I'm expressing my fear without pretentiously reducing it or dramaticizing things rather than asking for some real information. The availability of funds in the European Union is not just open. The conditions were to be met, the years and every product was... sensitive and every product does not have the same reprecision on our agriculture and on our agriculture and family or any other agricultural household and part of the processing industry. [[You don't understand.]] I am particularly troubled by the production that has reached Croatia's level of self-sufficiency and the possibility of exports is already being opened. Well, gentlemen, Hungary and I have an asymmetric agreement on free trade in wine, you know how much we used it. We have only one third of our quotas left, and they've given us so wide opportunities for bad luck. And that's what's happening to us right now in the negotiations. I am interested in the fact that we have a surplus we have if there is an opportunity here, and that information then gives me the right to look forward to the European Union, not me, I am speaking now in the name of the village, the peasants, that the peasant is turning to it and starting to prepare. It's already said in another way, we've shown a real pro-European face in this particular budget. I assure you, our subsidies are too small to allow the adjustment to run at an accelerated rate. It's an honor to the ministry one or the other that prepares us in a way, but the funds are limited. The pace we need is one, one accelerated pace, it's a terrible big injection to the village, the peasant, a farmer who needs to go directly through subsidies or I don't know what other way. But at this point, it doesn't feel like it except that it's said in principle. Therefore, while the minister tells me he has a consensus or that at least the entire agricultural sector has been notified, he is in a small village, he is in one darkness and he is wandering. And where our exporters who export in the first wave told us that, to bring them to them, here are these producers of this source water afraid of competition because, clearly, a huge market is opening up, huge competition because they're winning. If it is only to be concluded by one Podravka which opens on one product, a large door is opened, the paints on the other part are afraid of competition and does not know what it will replace. It's for those satellites out there that are already in Europe to make up my income. It's another story because it's organized like that, but these other ones that aren't, what are their chances? So I pray as we discuss this, we must consider that the village was carrying the tradition of tradition, preserved faith, and that our village must not be extinct. If I call on you, Mr. Minister, now I'm talking to you, otherwise it's not my way of speaking, and may the President of the Parliament forgive me, just one statement that we have to set up management agriculture. I, I'm afraid of it because in the country there are 150,000 households of 150,000 managers you know what that would look like? It's a fiction we don't want to touch right now. Let's let some agriculture have one of its own roundabouts, help them to be in restructuring consistent, consistent. Not to the left and the right, that this family man, the family household, that it has a foothold of this government, the next government, and that it does not turn away from that path. This means one belief that our family is a fundamental community and a fundamental unit for production that produces everything in the family household for us, its households under well-known conditions, economically justified, enough for this family. These are European guidelines, not just our guidelines, and if that is what we support, then that means that we will respond to more resources. And finally, if someone thinks Europe is just a big production, here, it's been two weeks or how long it's been. The trip to Bavaria convinces us quite the opposite. Small family productions are the foundation and they're coming back... And therefore our appeal, give direct support for such family households on small agricultural land to achieve an economically justified, highly productive, then surely such a commitment and we support it. [[You don't understand.]] So let this debate result in one intention that this country is determined, that this country has no fiction but in fact to implement its agricultural policy in a way without discrediting whether it is a left or right option proposed. In that sense, let our interpretation be understood as one of the government's incentives to come out with that true truth, to convince the public that every factor in agricultural production is being managed by a special concern and that we don't care what it is, these negotiations will be over. In that belief, I also hope that the government is keeping an eye on it because otherwise it is, it would have been respected if there had been protests today. I assure you, and the minister knows what the protests were about. They were deliberately challenged, so they ended up, targeted by agreement, reason, without pretentiously making it impossible for us or even for anyone to contribute. Because they were in one place provoked with one, one solution that is likely to be properly solved. But if so, if there are protests and it is part of the European culture that we are going to force and we must be prepared to defend ourselves in this way, because it is his right and we do not need to respect why we are in a hurry to Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9618	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9619	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen and Mrs. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I think this is a bit of a start, and even the fact that there's no television transmission can't be a reason for empty benches. No matter who it is, we are here, exclusively and how we do our duty, it will be valued by citizens in the elections. This is my little comment on the Vice-President of the Parliament who, in the context of this topic of interpretation, said that it is unserious because it does not have a part of the members of the Croatian Parliament. I think she's completely serious, that she's needed and that she doesn't need to happen to any other pedestal or should cause any anxiety. I think that Parliament is the place where we should and must discuss everything, including Croatia as a young democratic country, I believe that there are already such rules and such legal norms that are very high and our tolerance, tolerance in all the years that the Croatian Parliament lives has shown that it can deal with and with its tolerance, tolerance, and also with the way we communicate with our neighbours, including with some who are deeper and have more experience in parliamentary democracy. In the context of the topic, I would say that today there is almost no segment of social, political or economic life in which changes or reforms are taking place that we like to know, and for which any citizen will ask him whether it is for these reforms to say that he is for these reforms. You can tell him afterwards that these reforms are in his favor. He will still be skeptical of these reforms. It is one rule that probably does not apply only to Croatia, or it certainly does not apply only to Croatia. You see, in just a few years of a great commitment to NATO, the European Union, out of great enthusiasm for the fact that we will get close and enter these Euro-Atlantic associations, there comes a time when there is a huge country and uninformedness, and who is in charge of the education of action exactly towards NATO towards the European Union, who, who more than we are here? Therefore, this is where all topics should be discussed, the scale of these topics, because it is unacceptable that in most of them, even some public figures in their stages when they talk about NATO, we do not need a raw military force. Of course, NATO today is not a raw military force, it is something else, it is the driver of certain transformations and processes in those countries that are trying to get close to Euro-Atlantic countries and associations. Therefore, the correctness of action on a subject definitely also affects the state of the nation is definitely affecting the totality of the opinion, and therefore Parliament is the place where all the things that can inspire the attention of our citizens, their concerns, their coldness or in any way lead to the kind of opinion that will ultimately not be in the interest of the state and politics should be discussed in this place. That is why today's topic, which is being addressed today, should be seen as a public debate that will certainly contribute to the understanding of all those processes for which there is a large part of the population, and not only that part of the population, agriculture, fishermen and others, but also that will give other citizens who want to believe in a better future in the United Europe, in which parliamentary and majority and minorities are discussing, also think about how publicly and transparently all those positions are, and possibly the problems that exist in any transformation in each transition and in every reform, and this is a kind of reform. And because of this unnecessary anxiety that was manifested in our prime minister's presentation, there is no place to be, and I think we have the right to talk in a different way, and I want to believe that we can all have the same and common goals. I think that such goals, which are primarily in the interest of the people, give us the right not to be angry, but rather to be justified in the debate that will be seen in the public's eyes in order to throw out all those risks and all that our citizens accumulate in themselves in part through the negativity of certain media, and in part for the general lack of information that they have. Therefore, there is no need to be afraid of direct television transmissions, not to be afraid to discuss this subject, but to be afraid of everything that can lead to a non-debate, through creation, through the creation of an alibi to be divided into one's own side and that everyone is pushing their own policy. Because that's the kind of thing that always ended badly in our history. I am therefore sure that initial anxiety can absolutely be reconciled and that absolutely every government and when it is wrong has the right to fix it, it has the right and to change its way of acting. And we have the right, but also the obligation to discuss all of this publicly and clearly, and I believe that through conclusions, even through the views of the government that the clear prime minister can say here, can do what all citizens expect of us in the end, which is to be key, that we can at least agree on key, national and important things in that minimum that is as often as far away as the maximum. But I hope that can change, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9620	Thank you. There are no more registered deputies. So I'm asking the proposer's representative to take the floor line. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9621	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary. In this final statement, in these few sentences I'm going to say, I'm going to go the way the Prime Minister was supposed to scold when he disobeyed our interpretation. I accept, for example, that our explanation of the interpretation has a flaw in the sense of how Mr. Radosh said it, so I think Mr. Mimica did. But we didn't miss the point. The point stands. and our club and the MPs who have signed this impelation we remain entirely at the core. We accept that the roof that we may not be the most precise, stylishly well written, but remains a fundamental fact, why we have submitted the interpretation. We submitted it because the Government missed a way of negotiating with the European Union on Protocol 7, i.e. liberalising trade in agricultural products and food products. There are a lot of articles here quoted here, the law, enough here are drawn parallels between one and another legal regime, so to speak conditionally, one bilateral negotiation regime, the second regime of the Stabilisation, Temporary Agreement and our Implementation Act. So, it wouldn't seem to me to be getting back into some legal argument, first of all, because I'm not a lawyer, but I still understand this article 16 that I've already quoted once. And especially the part that talks about the deadline. And Article 16 makes it very clear that the Community and Croatia within the Interim Committee are to explore the possibility, etc., of achieving greater trade liberalisation by 1 July 2006 at the latest. So, it does not stand in any case, an argument which has served us here on several occasions that the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to complete these negotiations on liberalisation by 1 May 2004, 2006 is a deadline. Article 23 can also be included in the way it solves what happens when new countries join the European Union and it really does not make sense that I now elaborate it again in detail. But I want to say very clearly, clearly, Croatia has no obligation, Croatia must be more subtle, more careful and responsible, slower, more detailed, with the information of the public, with the information of this Parliament, with the provision of wages in this House. And I reiterate that the European Union and Croatia are not two worlds unless we measure by average GDP or gross domestic product. We're very different here. I think even in democratic differences. Now, in democratic standards, these differences are no longer so great. Of course there's no difference in cultural, civilization at all. So there's this one key difference, the difference in the degree of economic development. And that's why these documents we've been quoting here all afternoon, they're good documents, they're in each other's sentences on each page calling for agreement, for negotiation, for respect, for consultation, for mutual interest. So we gentlemen have to get the strength and tell our partners in the European Union, Croatia is not interested in accepting new disparities in the trade of agricultural and food interests, products. So we have to get the strength to say it. We must be able to say that we need more time to complete these negotiations. Well, we'll be running around like this headlessly, unnecessarily and in a hurry. Whether it's the consequence of our unpreparedness, whether it's the consequence of our service, whether it's the consequence of our failure to give one such assessment, I can't judge it. But just to remove all these possible shortcomings, so I haven't said for any shortfall that there are possible shortcomings. Let's get the whole story back to this field that this interpretation suggests. And another argument that I have made in previous exposure when there was no President, Prime Minister, I am also trying to appeal in this way, we are aware of the facts and testify that in various ways there has been a sudden erosion of the European Union's acceptance among the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as well as NATO's alliance. It will be difficult for top psychologists, sociologists based on the most correct methodological research to determine what happened. Whether this is being planted, whether it is deliberately led to this process, whether such questions are being asked which will suggest people, whether we are unnerving when we explain certain things, whether the public may not accept this secrecy of the government etc. The questions are a lot, but I'm sure of one thing, we all think the same way together. It is not good that this is how it hastily eroded acceptability in the Croatian public of the European Union. I personally don't believe in the data that comes out, I don't believe in the results that we've heard on television, that are published in various newspapers, and I believe there are a lot of methodological errors if not something else. But it is evident that there is one trend, that there is an increasingly unacceptable trend, it is simply a task for us to stop this trend and try to restore the confidence of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the usefulness of Euro-Atlantic integration, therefore, of joining both NATO and the European Union. We can best prevent this if we achieve adequate synergy between the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government. That synergy, I assure you, will not be achieved if everyone stays in their position. In the end, it is not in the interest of anyone at any time to dispute the legal conduct of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Let's try right at that crucial moment, when we feel that the mood of the public... not only is she nervous, but to go in the opposite direction and it's rapid, let's try the bar, legislative and executive authority based on these arguments if we're not ready today, leave it for five days, sit down, decide, see, analyze, consult, if necessary and if deemed necessary, you will decide. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether the regime entered by the government regardless of the previous government's decisions is beneficial and good for Croatia or should possibly be changed. We at the HSS are convinced that it should be changed and that it has gone wrong from the very beginning. So let's try to get the whole thing back into the domains of the legal system of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the interim agreement and our, our law on the implementation of the agreement. Let's try to get him back under this roof and under the roof across from the Government of the Republic of Croatia but looking for a synergy of the legislative and executive authority. It is precisely because to achieve this, we, in accordance with our promise from the opening statement and the text of the interpretation, have proposed to this House of Conclusions, allow me to read them and turn them over to the President of the Parliament. Based on Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as a whole, proposes to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusions: 1. It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit within 15 days to the Croatian Assembly of the Proposal for a Decision as well as to the Proposal for a position for negotiations on Protocol 7 referred to in Article 3. The law implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Communities and their Member States and the Interim Agreement on Trade and Related Issues between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community in order to reach a conclusion of Article 4 of the Law after the discussion has been carried out. 2. It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to report within 15 days the Croatian Parliament on the negotiations so far held between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on Protocol 7 on the extension of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in the area of trade in agricultural food products and on any requirements or proposals submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia from the competent authorities of the European Union. I ask the President of the Croatian Parliament to accept the conclusions that have been handed over in accordance with the Rules of Procedure before the debate ends and allow just a few more sentences. So we are looking at these conclusions to restore the whole, the whole of this story, this whole process to the Parliament and within the framework of another legal regime with the European Union. Not bilaterally, but with the European Union. I am aware that it is possible to experience in this House and to reject these conclusions, but once again, by rejecting these conclusions, I am sure that it will be done inexplicable or irreparable damage primarily to Croatian parliamentaryism, because it would happen in all likelihood that the Croatian Parliament mutilates something that is not legal. I believe that this will also result in further damage in public opinion in the Republic of Croatia and further erosion of the unacceptable integration processes which I do not think we can allow in any way. It is likely that this could also happen in relation to the Republic of Croatia-European Union. This moment is too sensitive. This moment requires full concentration and full responsibility. At this point, only a dozen, fifteen or twenty days before deciding on the avis of the Republic of Croatia should not allow for reckless decisions and moves that may follow in any way harm or potentially prevent a positive avis from being made. I'm aware that avis in a negative sense or a limited sense can happen without what we're talking about. But it will eventually be decided by the European Union itself. Let's not let that affect us so we don't have any later remorse that, in fact, we've contributed to getting a negative avis. So positive avis is the absolute priority of this moment. Beyond that, the absolute priority of obtaining a full membership candidacy and also opening negotiations. And in these negotiations, the same procedure will need to be applied again in this legal regime that we are talking about today. I'm sure they'll have as I've said very badly inconceivable consequences. That burden I personally and my party do not want to bear. Gentlemen who have a majority in this House decide for yourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9622	Thank you very much, Mr. Tomcic. Given that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the applicant has now made a proposal for conclusions, I would ask the Prime Minister to show himself on the proposal for these conclusions. Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9623	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the proposals for conclusions to be voted on by the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, I can only state the government's view on this. We, these conclusions are not acceptable to us for those reasons that I already presented in my opening statement. And that is, firstly, the fact that we have conducted negotiations under the Law on the conclusion of international contracts and not under the Law on Implementation, on the implementation of the SAA. And that is because we believe that we are right because: (a) that is the decision of the previous Government and we have continued this practice which is good b) because it is so suggested by the European Union and it means, on behalf of 10 countries entering the European Union on 1 May, the European Commission has decided to propose to Croatia to conduct negotiations directly and bilaterally. Since it is 10 new countries, they cannot even be the subject under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, because they are just the new members and not the ones with which we have negotiated. That's why, from all this, it turns out that the government is going to continue this, this practice so far and end negotiations and refer to the Parliament if that's how we agree and if that's how you think it is, and that means that we would then, that we would do the opposite of the government's decision of 29 October, the government where you were a coalition partner. That we will counter that decision and propose to the Parliament the ratification of this Protocol 7. I'm in favour of this going and having a debate in the Parliament after the government signed it, after the third round of negotiations. Once again, I am convinced that we will be able to win useful quotas for Croatia through these negotiations. What we're not going to agree to is that quotas are increasing, so the current EU quotas15+10 new ones can't be higher in their sum than they are now. They can only be less, and Croatia gets in these negotiations an extremely important, important goal we achieve, which is that we can export, I repeat once again in these new 10 countries unlimitedly and without customs all products except those 3 that were already here. Therefore, I should also draw attention to what the president of the HSS said shortly before, and this is the degree of acceptability or support for Croatia's entry into Euro-Atlantic integration. I am a much bigger Eurorealist than a Eurosceptic and I believe there is no reason to worry. I think we will all have to work together, here I agree with some evaluations of the representatives, that we will have to work together to say what quality these are, what values Croatia will receive by entering European, Euro-Atlantic integration, and that this conversation and this debate should not be run away from the public, but I am also convinced that such unnecessary debates that go from the wrong points of view, the wrong points of view can contribute to this erosion, to quote just before the speakers after this speaker. I personally believe that Croatian citizens know very well what the European Union brings us, know that no country that has entered the European Union wants to get out of it and know well that every country that has entered the European Union, today its citizens live better than it did before joining the European Union. But it will be decided by citizens in their referendum after Croatia has completed negotiations on the chapters of the Acqui Community when it is over and when the time comes. Until then, we must work in the government what we consider to be the most useful for Croatia and why we have received the mandate of Croatian voters. And that is exactly what we are doing, and this agreement will show that what I was talking about today was right and finally because this is also the last day of the Parliament's meeting before Easter on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to all who hear us, and also to all MPs who celebrate the resurrection of the Catholic faith, I wish a happy Easter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-02-0.u9624	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the conclusion proposed by the House of Representatives Club of the HSS. Who's in favour of this proposal? Thank you. Who's against it? Did you count it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I find that the conclusions were voted by 12 MPs, against 75 and 3 abstentions, so they did not get the necessary majority. I give the vote further the following conclusion: Interpelation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is denied. Who's in favour of that conclusion? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you. Who's against it? I find that, with 77 votes for, against 10 and 3, the Interpelition on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been abstentioned. We've only got one short point left. The proposal for a decision setting out the form of a representative card is the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. You received the motion for an act at the session. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply. I ask the chairman of the board of Mr Branimir Glavas to explain the additional proposal if he has any needs. There's no need. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in favour of the motion for this decision? Thank you very much. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that it is unanimous with 89 votes for the decision to determine the form of the representative card in the text as proposed by the applicant. I conclude the fifth session with a happy Easter card and Easter holidays for all those who mark it. [[Applause.]]
